"having this space act just like a corporate hangar array would be a great tool. with all the stuff i pick up during missions i need a better way to skip past all my salvage and ore to get to my ammo."
"yup, because abusing the person you want to take up your cause is a wonderful way of getting them to do it there is no magic number, but i don't think there are enough people saying \"do this now\" compared to the people who are saying \"no, don't do this\". if i felt strongly about this one way or the other, i would or wouldn't pick this topic up to champion or just say no - i'm still on the fence as to whether this is a good idea or not.unfortunately for you, i can't just look at minorities (which 57 people are) and then demand that all of the eve payers want this. as i said, there are 7 other csm's that can champion this right now, or you can wait to get a bit more support and then i'll consider it again. my job is to represent everyone in eve, for the betterment of everyone in eve, if that means i don't pick something up that i consider is on the fence, so be it. as for adding elves to eve, you can get me 1k people who sign a thread saying yes and i won't champion that topic, just because you get a group of people who think it's a good idea doesn't necessarily make it a good idea for the game.if you have such major issues with the way i'm conducting myself as a csm, feel free to not vote for me the next time around, or maybe grow some balls and run yourself and then you can champion the things you want to champion."
"this is very rarely the way to go. i have always tried to be civil, and would like to encourage anyone whom feels strongly about this proposal or any proposal to do the same.obviously anyone who plays is going to have some opinions, thoughts, or ideas about the game. some we agree on, some we do not. some we don't care about either way. i think the point here is, there have been topics with much less visibility that have been brought forth to the csm.there are only two csm who have taken the time to reply. so the 'attack' isn't directed at solely omber zombie. i do realize you probably get messages like this and eve mails constantly, i know i sent a few eve mails :-p, but if i knew this was being read by the csm, and had an idea where each of you stood i could debate my case.you've never heard of someone whom created a character for the trial on a whim and then came to love the game but didn't want to sacrifice all the skill time they put into the character to create another?don't think i've seen many characters sell on the forums because it had a cool name, most of us whom buy characters buy them because we want to fly more cool ships, or more specialized ships (skill points).obviously the skill points are more important to me than the character's name. as they're important to the majority of players whom buy characters, but i've seen a few who didn't sell, or didn't get as much as they could because the name was horrible. i would think by supporting this proposal you would help the character market because now you can buy a more elite character and rename it to lavista vista! and all those crappy character names can be changed, thus anyone who cares enough not to buy a character with a bad name can now change it.did i mention that you can already buy a character and off load your scamming character thus hiding your identity?*edit added reply to lavista vista."
"it would go well with the t3 module idea coming out."
"(note, graphs showed old 10% damage and 10% tracking values for the tempest)everyone wants/uses the tempest as a cheap sniper although the maelstrom is a little superior.the maelstrom also has a **** tone of extra power grid, a fat tank and in close range situations, it trumps the tempest 7 times out of 8.enternew tempest* 7.5% damage per level, 5% tracking speed per level.* increased drone bay to 125m3 and bandwidth to 125* +/-5% agility increase (or fix the problem when turning with the mwd recently deactivated)* increase to power grid by 7% (can now fit 1400mm's + mwd with 3% implant like the mealstrom currently can on tq)1650mm artillery* 4000 pg power grid riqs (3600 with awu v)* 5% more dps* 17% more alpha* 12% less rof* 30% less tracking* 20% more optimal rangemaelstrom5% rof per level, 7.5% base shield hp per level8/6/5 slots.loses 25mb of bandwidth (down to 75m3)statsverses a typical cruiser mwdingin the above, both have 2 tracking computers with tracking speed scripts fitted, and 1 tracking enhancer fitted.with 50% more tracking, the new tempest has a much improved hit chance against cruisers within 30km. it's worth noting that with the new web changes, the tempest would become one of the most viable battleships for fighting anything smaller than it's class within web range.this can also been seen when using artillery against cruisers, a tempest is now competitive against an apocalypse with tachyons within the 100km, gun per gun, however it's worth noting that the apocalypse would be fitting 7-8 tachs with 2 heat syncs (as shown in the charts) where as the tempest would be fitting 6 1200mm or 1400 artillery.the difference would be in that fitting 1200mm artillery, a full passive tank would be possible, combined with fitting medium nos, heavy missiles or remote repair gear, with no cap considerations.in 1650mm land...vs bs's in fleet situations.although the maelstrom and tempest, using 1400mm's remains unchanged against more or less static targets, the 1650mm artillery, which can only feasibly used by the maelstrom gains about 20% range, 5% dps and 15% alpha (5% more than the new tempest) with around 30% reduction to the turrets tracking speed.vs battlecruiser sized targets however, most of those gains are lost and against cruisers, 1650mm artillery are completely ineffective where as tempests regain there edge when using 1200mm artillery against cruiser sized targets.it should be noted that a max damage, sniping tach-abaddon (500dps) would still out damage a 1650mm maelstrom up to about 170km.rational?this splits the tempest's and maelstrom's roles in a number of situations.the new tempest.ship wise, with the new changes approaching, the tempest becomes the premi<U+FFFD>re, close in dog fighter whilst using auto cannons. now it's potentially strong with afterburners, against battleships orbiting within web range, and able to hold it's own against anything small looking to get under it's guns. after the web nerf, it's likely many battleships would have problems with cruiser sized targets, the tempest would be the exception.with 1200mm or 1400 artillery, the tempest would now find a new role, as the cheaper, anti support sniper that would fair much more successfully than the maelstrom for anti support work. with 1200mm's, plates and/or energy neutralisers could be fitted to deal with anything that happened to get too close."
"the new maelstromthe maelstrom, retains most of it's tanking ability and gains the much needed competitiveness at 180-200km range minmatar have been sorely lacking. it maintains it's, stand-off, main-battle or ship of the line role in close range engagements with improved falloff (compare it to the rokh-250mm rails/abbadon or apoc with pulses before screaming imbala) whilst gaining a new style of tanking ability, this time, useful for it's main sniping role. as for mission runners, the performance of the maelstrom for pve has not diminished due to it's new abilities whilst passive tanking.with 1400mm artillery, the maelstrom practically performs as before with slightly more dps, but 12.5% less alpha than the tempest, as well as generally poorer tracking. when using 1650mm artillery, fitting becomes harder. like amarr pilots with tachyon lasers, fitting slots would be requried, with similar decisions as to how to fit given the limited nature of slots.using 1650mm artillery, fitting a maelstrom should require at least 1 rcu ii and a pdu ii with a mwd with max filling skills, this could be worked around by using grid implants, grid rigs or just by dropping a gyrostablier from your fit but for the added range and alpha from 1650mm's, and potentially improved close range performance, i hope this would be a satisfactory compromise.and where does this leave the megathron/hyperion?until the ccp fixes torps (lol double sig rad of torps), the megathron and hyperion and the rokh for that matter are kinda in the mud, i'd welcome a straight 3-5% damage increase on blasters because with the web, mass/mwd/acceleration changes.but i want my tempest to be...it's almost as cheap as most tier 1 battleships, with a typhoon that would be a better tempest than a tempest could ever be. it needs to be something more than the *it can 1v1 a megathron* (even though now it still could, sort of) or that *1400mm lol alphapest* from 2006. the game has evolved, it's clearer now than ever that when a ship finds a niche, it finds a way into your hanger and it's this elevation from other battleships into something new/different we should be all striving for. the game has evolve, your ideals will evolve, and now cpp, the tempest must evolvewhy this is balanced?why are ravens, which are able to do 1100 dps with any damage type out to 30km balanced? why are beams which have incredible tracking and damage, and now with the apocalypse, at highly competitive ranges balanced? i really don't know, but when you place the changes here in that context, combined with some of the stunning flaws inherent with the tools (lol, artillery clip size) and ideology (split weapons????) minmatar ships have to live with, combined with the fact that versatilely and utility count for not very much after various waves of nerfs and balances. the suggestion posted i, and many others would be happy to announce, that not only is it balanced, it's fair.why 1650mm and not 1600mm's?because every matari knows, every millimeter counts ;)(i really don't care what there called tbh, as long as it's a number bigger than 1400 and not 1600mm - like the plates)"
"well thought through post, bump."
"please support the topic by clicking on the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" box...epic minmatar thread incoming."
"supported."
"supported"
"drones + webs do the trick against cruisersisnt that what support is for....for killing enemy support?sig radius and speed play a big part in making sure ravens dont do that much dps against anything smaller than a moon"
"they were discussed, just waiting for the official minutes to be released"
"support this proposal"
"support. it's not just missiles either. it's now having to fit a painter and losing yet another midslot from our tank. use rigs for that you say? hell, we have to use those for rigo and flares..."
"what do you mean discon..."
"this really should be part of the game. not having to grind is one of the defining features of eve. its a casual mmo'ers dream. why make us slaves to the logging in to switch my skill in the middle of the night. thats not fun, thats work, and this is a game made for enjoyment. a limited skill queue at worst..."
"this man speaks the truth."
"any csm going to take this forward?"
"bump, still no real response."
"whines will shut off as we will get used to this nerf . . .no whines == no problems . . .nice ccp to ignore your customers (yes, i pay a monthly fee to bring my money into a company that used to bring fun to me)now is a good time to wonder about revamping the whole thingy : the current tournament results are far beyonf my expectations regarding blasterboats"
"supported"
"/signed"
"+1. also other silly thing is the faction navies shooting you in their space when you've done enough missions to opposing faction. say your corp goes and ends up in hostile faction space, what do you do?yes it's one of the few roleplaying aspects but it's"
"yes, it does count as \"working as intended\".i have pointed out the problem with your proposal. i will not continue to repeat myself. i will simply take comfort in the fact that i do not expect the developers to implement your proposal even if it is raised by the csm.you can continue to waste your efforts on selling your idea, or you can go back and work out something that is better in line with the spirit of existing mechanics."
"what problem is that specifically? your first objection was that this is some kind of attempt at creating a 'realistic' space sim - it isn't. your second objection seemed to be that close ranged weapon systems are some how perfectly ok, despite the recent 400% cut in effective tracking - ask any blaster pilot.i guess you probably won't answer but: do you see why the tracking formula is flawed? do you understand the concept of a closer target should be easier to hit?edit: not trying to troll or flame you here, i'm really curious as to what you see as the problem with the specific proposals in the linked thread? - it would not take us back to the old 90% web days.second edit: this is not something that has been simply a reaction to the web changes, i brought this up a long time ago."
"goumindong, pulse lasers (this is effectively what you are referring to) would still be hitting less often than in the old 90% web days, when targets were effectively stationary, as in fact will blasters and autocannons. pulse lasers were not overpowered in terms of tracking then - i for one, never had any issues taking down pulse boats in my blaster boats provided i didn't try to engage them from too far off - and would not be overpowered after this."
"some of the mechanics are partly in game (most of it should be about the db anyhow).kill rights are already a feature in eve. so some of the suggestions shouldn't be too hard to implement. by connecting kill rights to corp/alliance standings for example."
"i refer to this link:"
"currently there are 10 implant slots, 5 hardwirings.can we get like 10 more hardwiring slots? please."
"i think its nice as it is... you won't like to get a god character isnt it?"
"while i disagree with the numbers you're talking about, maybe having one extra slot that any type of implant of types 6-10 can be inserted into would work. we've all tried to put our implants in order to find that two implants we really like take up the same slot.this would give a small boost to implants without implementing an \"i win\" button. comments/questions?"
"is there any limit to the amount of random unneeded requests you will support?"
"*hereon herinnger bumps!"
"i just lawled if ccp goes with this then just lawlthis will actually goin way towards wow in safe place nerfing pvp since people will make loads of alts just to kill rats to make it safe or wat notbut on another note a system could randomly go to low sec/0.0 in a destination with a freighter on auto and we would be like omnomnomnomnom there are good points but bad points and bad points put me off alot in this situation as it will be more kitty online were ratters have no risk but loads of reward"
"okay. i don't do courier missions, so i don't know why they're unpopular, but my best guess is that they aren't the sort of thing many people really want to pay well for, so there's not much money in it. do people really want even a dozen couriers active at once very often? that only matters if they're all on the same route, and not that big(because it only takes 8 to fill a charon), which doesn't come up too much. are there really that many cases where contracting 3 isn't enough to fill your ship with couriers? the one change that does need to be made is upping the max size to (size of charon at caldari freighter 5), so that you can do the same hauling with fewer contracts. but the contract count doesn't seem to affect it too much. i'd be way more sympathetic to asking to up the limit on trade contracts than courier contracts."
"one reason is that it seems that more often than not they are scams, a person will put a worthless item in the contract, give it a huge collateral and put pickup in lowsec and gank anyone that tries to fill the contract and get to keep the collateral, or make the drop off a station that the courier can't access. why risk a contract that asks you to put up 100 mil but only wants to pay a mil or 2."
"ccp should realize that alot of players dont log in and play because of this lag... if something is not done about it, there will be very few people playing fw. militia active numbers are falling steadilly..."
"my proposal is to make so that when you set up a pos you should be able to choose what standing other persons must have to get through the shield.it should be completely optional but it makes so that you do not need to give passwords to other alliances for them to come in behind the shield. it also makes you not need worry about the enemies getting the password to get inside the shield.this make it so that your alliance can easy mange who can come through the shield and not."
"the only reason why this isn't already so must be because the devs in charge are part of large pos warfare alliances, and enjoy the spying."
"2 reasons why this is a terrible idea:1 - it removes the ability for stupid people to lose ships at their pos's by using an obvious password for the shield.2 - it removes the usefulness of spies and informants in enemy corps for the purpose of gaining access to pos shields and the assets within."
"or you could try not blindly handing out your password to spies v0v"
"no reason not to have it. if you want to get inside the pos shields, shoot it."
"no, the spy just has to have access to change the settings instead of being any old joe bloggs joining an allied fleet. so, you know, it actually takes some effort to infiltrate a spy again, instead of being **** easy like it is today.supported, but to be honest there are a ton of other more important things that need to be addressed, and i'm currently not involved in pos wars so yay for me :p"
"suppose a fleet fight is escalating beyond the ability of the node to keep up with it. what if, instead of the node grinding to a halt, it spawned one or more wormholes on the grid where most of the action is taking place? these would then suck in nearby ships, taking a manageable part of the battle elsewhere.related ideas:1. titan wormhole gun (possibly replacing standard dd)spawns wormholes that suck in everything within a certain area on grid and spit it out into w-space.2. wormholes triggered by standard dd activationsame sort of idea, but less predictable. each dd fired in a system during the past hour makes it more likely that the next will trigger a wormhole on that grid."
"when a battle is too laggy to manage, people can't event jump out the system because nothing works.i don't think a wormhole would work in that sense neither. too laggy to be sucked in, you know what i mean?"
"i see your point, but i don't think the comparison is a valid one. people actually have to click a button (i.e. communicate with the server) to jump through a gate, but as planned, wormholes will actively suck ships in, if they're close enough."
"they haven't actually decided that wormholes are triggered by proximity yet (at least last time i checked the thread), but the idea that a dd could cause a random wormhole to get generated is an interesting one"
"such ideas are already proving popular with certain devs, not to mention on shc: link to post"
"well, there's a certain humour in the idea of doomsdays not only breaking the servers but breaking spacetime as well, i guess, but your suggestion just encourages doomsdays instead of fleet fights ('hey guys, not only do we wipe out the enemy fleet but we get a free wormhole to go grab t3 loot afterwards!'), and makes titans less vulnerable (because the doomsday just teleported a good chunk of the enemy's tacklers and dps to the other end of the universe).also this suggestion comes a few months too late - in my recent experience, a doomsday doesn't really wreck the node like it used to pre-quantum rise, its the massive battleship and/or dread fights that break the most."
"looks like my idea's already out there."
"[x] the ninja salvager should not be aggro'd to the mission runneraggro should come from theft, which assumes ownership - however if the wreck belongs (and i am not saying it has an owner at all) to someone, it could only belong to the npc corp the mission runner was fighting (true power, guardian angels etc), not the mission runner."
"hoping to see those minutes sometime still - the csm posts saying \"we've seen how cool things are gonna be\" don't help much."
"taken from omber zombies notes here:"
"ccp has been really busy lately. it seems like it might be delayed a slight bit."
"ya, the tournie probably put a bit of a crunch on their manpower. just please don't let it fall though the cracks, is all i am asking. judging by ccp earlier reactions, i doubt it will, but a good dose of paranoi isn't alwyas a bad thing (particularly when traveling low sec )"
"trust me. some interesting info will be released. if it isn't out by the end of next week, i will try and hear ccp what went wrong."
"that would go against what ccp tries to accomplish. they want, although they arent always succesful, for 0.0 and empire space to be interdependant."
"most of the reasons why i feel you shouldnt be able to change your name have already been listed.but for me, the biggest one continues on with eve's consequences to your actions - actions creating, or buying the character. deal with it.the only time i would support it is after having your named nerfd by ccp due to a petiotion. you should have a one time option for the same cost as changing your char's face to change your name.if it gets petitioned again and nerfd, rinse and repeat."
"i could swing in either direction on this one. i think however i will support it. what keeps a person from changing their name in the real world to avoid something they did in their past? nothing really. though if you dig hard enough you could probably find the truth. maybe add a skill, criminal investigation, to divulge info like this on people."
"i support any changes that make pos's look and operate how they should."
"as i said numerous times, minmatar is the only race without a sniper/fleet dedicated ship (ie a ship with an optimal range or tracking bonus) tempest is the perfect ship to change.i dislike the maelstrom changes mainly because they are just never going to happen. minmatar gets active shield tanking bonuses, that is what we get and it won't change. 7th mid would be hot but mimmatar ships cannot get more mids than the caldari raven so that is never going to happen. might as well ask for the +drone damage bonus on the typhoon instead of the projectile bonus :)supporting changing the tempest so it can snipe better. 1650mm arty is nice, are you also in support of a 3rd type of pulse laser?"
"ever since the maelstrom was released, the tempest felt like an obsolete platform for sniping. switching it to ac specialist makes perfect sense. supported!"
"but against nano sniping hac's?tactical asymmetry is a good thing, it's less of a problem since the nano-nerf.a drake is a pretty small moon"
"niiice/signed"
"sniping nano hac? battleships cant be good at everything, u think a mega can hit a sniping nano hac? what about a raven with torps?about the drake....need to slow the drake down to less than 90/ms for torps to do full dmg"
"definitely."
"great post! artillery always needed that third tier!"
"sure, but it would be nice if the tempest was good at, one thing... you know?but at 145m/s it's still going more than all the other turrets."
"love it"
"the tracking is one of the main problems with minmatar sniping, for the love of god don't make it any worse."
"i like the idea for the tempest a lot, but i would give it the standard 7.5% tracking along with the 7.5% damage. the agility buff would also improve its utility. if it were as agile as a bc, coupled with its tracking bonus, it would be easier to bring along on fast moving cruiser/bc gangs, where its various utility slots are of greater use."
"o/"
"even when i like the tempest as it is now for close range, i still think the tempest could need those changes tbh.i'm not a maelstrom user, so i don't directly know how the ship is, so i can't say anything about boosting for the maelstrom yet then."
"why would i use a megathron? the tempest will just become a megathron, more versatile in different roles that's slightly more agile and actually can fight at a reasonable range. oh, it also have a dronebay larger than other ships. only drone-ships have drone-bays larger than that of it's bandwidth.i can't support this. i'm generally against balancing issues like this overall. this issue has certainly nothing but strengthened my believe that balancing issues are completely crap"
"the megathron has vastly superior range, better tracking still and more damage, the megathron even after the changes would be the better sniper.don't get all emo because all the bonuses look the same, differences in slot layouts and weapon systems are enough to differentiate the ships and there roles.autocannon wise, the tempest would still suffer from having 6 low slots, +similar damage with the only difference being how well autocannons compare to pulses..."
"tempest is good at close range dmg atm. unless u dont know how to use it. and as lavista vista said.....why would anyone use a megathron after that?"
"a megathron would still do more damage, have a better passive tank with better tracking weapons. sure, it would not beat a tempest 1v1 every single time now, but within warp distruption range, it would still dominate as it does presently.a 7.25% damage bonus, gives the tempest 416 dps with hail. thats nearly a 100 dps drop from the tq version (505 dps). the increased drone bay adds another 127 dps bringing it roughly inline with what it was at close range - a net 39 dps gain.the real question should be why do people fly megathron's instead of an apoc/typhoon/(insert armor tanking turret ship here)"
"a tempest can beat a megat every time now if the pilot is any good. it's all down to the pilot."
"the fact that your trying to have this discussion in an attempt to suggest that the tempest equv to the megathron suggests that something wrong.have you ever flown a typhoon against a megathron?sure, they'll have similar bonuses, but beyond extra tracking 1v1 wise, little changes. for sniping and anti support, it sets it's self apart from the maelstrom and creates a niche within the battleship line up - thats the objective, and i think i achieve that with these changes."
"i don't do 1v1. balancing things based on 1v1 in general is a faulty way of doing it, imo. i fly a pilgrim solo and kill battleships with it by myself. does that mean battleships are underpowered or pilgrim is overpowered? no. it just means that i knew to fly my ship better than my opponent knew his.but don't underestimate a typhoon. given player skills and skillpoints(seeing as you need both ac and missiles), the phoon might just win. having flown one myself i'm very well aware of how nasty it can be, despite people's perception of it as a trashbin."
"i have flown a typhoon, but we r talking about the tempest here. with your changes its giving the tempest less dps (giving it more drones makes it worse as drones can be killed, thus losing more dps than current tq version).i still dont see how it will be a sniping anti-support....this is arties you are talking about isnt it?"
"supported.i've felt i've wasted training time into maxing minmatar battleships, and turned towards training and always flying amarr."
"it'll have better tracking with artillery, and more alpha with 1400mm's (12.5% more) with an increased drone bay similar (but not as large as) the typhoon."
"if tracking is what matters in anti-support it will still be worse with arties. but you may have also created problems with the ship when used with ac's."
"i just noticed that the thread is titled \" [issue] tempest vs mealstrom v2\".mealstrom, om nom nom nom nom nom.you gotta admit, the typhoon/maelstrom does any role better than the tempest, isn't that worth looking at? i would also like to see this tempest fitting that can ***beat any megathron pilot***."
"he's probably thinking, lar+1600mm plate, dual webs, dual neuts, or something, whilst forgetting that theres half a dozen ships in which that razor thin balance between death and the target warping the **** out just doesn't apply. not that the situation in of it's self is how you balance anything. (lolapoc)"
"tempest fitting is 800's siege launchers, gyrostabs, plates web, mwd painter, other stuff.....oh and pilot skill"
"lol at this stupid thread. this is not balance ,this is how to make matar the best in everything even in fleet sniping."
"nope, even after these changes, it would still have to go to the amarr."
"who cares about amarr as apoc is op. both megathron and rokh would be completly useless compared to the tempest.matar--> speed and hit and run close range race --> no need to have good sniper fleet bs"
"thanks for proving my point. phoon does plate gank much better and the pest will do less damage than the megat at the same ranges, unless you are trying to make us believe you can stay out of web range of a megat? pilot skill nothing, the megat is going to catch you and you will be fighting at 5km while webbed."
"phoon = 5 heavy drones, 4 torps, 4 guns.....tempest = 6guns 2 launchers, 3 heavy drones.... different kind of gank ship. oh and you are supposed to web them back, or keep out of web range.but aparantly in another thread blasters cant hit anything orbiting it (i lol'ed tbh)if anything its ac's that need a dmg increase...as for the tempest itself...its fine"
"i don't think that even with 1650mm's, minmatar will be able to hit at 200km well. at there optimal, they would have the worst tracking by orders of magnitude, poor clip size with only 15% more alpha than tachyons on an abaddon and a 5% damage increase. - as for the tempest, it would be basically the same as current but with more tracking on what is currently the worst tracking, poorest range turrets relative to all the other fleet snipers."
"you seem to miss out falloff all the time....projectiles have the longest falloff. yeh u dont hit everytime in falloff but atleast u can hit way past optimal, unlike pulse lasers (which have a higher optimal to compensate for their low falloff) seems to me you are slowly turning this into a \"my projectiles cant do what lasers are doing so amarr are overpowered\" thread"
"artillery can't, and won't hit at the optimal ranges, megathrons and rokhs can instead...happy?"
"yes please, make my large sailboat usefull again."
"support"
"supporting with my amarr char so have reason to use my minny char in bs"
"i am happily the first to say in any crowd that minmatar battleships are broken. however these changes will do nothing to help them.what you need to do is creativity a role for then not new module. after 2 1/2 years in the game i'm not really sure what the role of the tempist was ever meant to be.......currently the typhoon is a reasonably good npcing ship and close range bs. however it's split weapons mean that there is no best optimal range for it and alternatives like the armageddon and domi have better tank, dps and alpha.the tempist is good at close range combat with artillery and siege missile launchs . however it is less useful at sniping then a mealstrom and utterly terrible in comparison to other ship in large fleets.the maelstrom has a high alpha and that's where it needs to excel. unfortunately it was made as a minmatar mission running ship. at which it is utterly terrible and cannot hit npcs to justify undocking. this ship is best used as a fleet sniper however it becomes uncompetitive at any reasonable sniping range as its alpha is pathetically small in the shot optimal and long falloff.what actually needs to change:1. auto cannons - drastically. i can't remember the last time i saw an ac fit bs for pve or pvp. both terrible range and terrible tracking = no hits.2. theres no sniper bs. this race needs a sniping battleship that does large alpha traded with low dps. however this is not in the game at the moment because the alpha cannot reach the target. atm not the tempist nor the mealstrom can be effectively manipulated into this role."
"1st. it's called tempest, not tempist.2nd. autocannons are totally fine as they are now. it's the artillery that needs to be looked at.but i still use t2 1400mm's because they are fun to use, not because they are omgimthabestever bcuz i have the highest dps."
"nt"
"i have long argued that the tempest, and large projectiles in general, are in need of some fixing. a third artillery size, and a change to the tempest/maelstrom bonuses would go a fair way to fix them. i especially feel like the maelstrom/tempest need more to distinguish them for pvp; right now the maelstrom is just a slower tempest with more ehp."
"like it"
"fun fun, but a little bit late? ;)"
"yeah to drone love."
"well some long time ago, i found some abandoned drones at a station. i tried to scoop them to sell (yay t2 drones) but got a message that i cannot do that since the drones are still attached to the owner. but the pilot was not in system !!!so it was 1/2 ass implemented alreay in the past ..."
"give love back to the missiles!"
"i'm always up for more drone love."
"bump"
"yes plz"
"supported"
"the lols that would ensue, when unsuspecting ratters warp in on top of a pirate camp that has a ratter pinned and in deep structure would be epic. i fully support this as a method for pirates to bait mission runners and ratters to come to them.or heck, just release the distress beacon and wait for the anti-pirate wannabes to show up. this would be great!"
"how to solve tracking problem..?<U+FFFD> change t2 ammo bonuses to compensate web nerf:- void, hail, conflagraition +75% tracking (instead -50%)- null, barrage, scorch +50% tracking (instead -25%)now t2 close ammo worse then faction."
"no ! ! what leaded us to this situation ?carebears whines about nanos.i escaped nanos many times & know that the best anti nano thingy is a domi fitted with heavy neut/nos & sentries, which is a easy setup to bring into a gang.how to solve this issue to noobs as ccp said it was a violation of ingame physic ? my solution :your ship has max speed, if you go above this max speed you take structural damages and agility/tracking/range drop seriously.in order words : you can run but then you'll be blind & harmless."
"i support this thread heavily. between web nerf, agility and t2 blaster ammo, it's very hard to make a good blaster boat.on the other hand i find that flying the drone boats still works just fine, so for anyone who is specced into gallente only, i suggest getting into an ishtar, domi, myrmidon..ect until these issues are resolved."
"not that i'm against this. but can you explain to me how i managed to hit a deimos good in my navy mega with caldari navy antimatter l on my neutron's ii when i had him webbed while he was orbiting me at 2.5 km?.i was standing still though. and this was on sisi. and no, it's not any different from sisi to tq when it's about the tracking and webbers.i don't see any issues with large blasters as they are now. maybe it's just me though heh.i'm almost maxed in skills for blasters from small to large, and i have gallente frig, cruiser and battleship at level 5.but one thing is for sure though, if the tracking on blasters are getting boosted, then for sure they should boost the tracking on the autocannons to."
"and how were your shots connecting ? just hitting and reliable putting damage on a target are 2 different things. btw doesn't the navy mega have +1 mid from standard mega ? 2 webs change the situation a bit."
"a navy mega have one extra low slot, not an extra mid slot. the vindicator have 5 mid slots. so i was then only using one gallente navy webber.and yeh, i was hitting the deimos good enough to melt him pretty fast."
"how about a hulk-type space frame with room for 4 strip miners, requiring exhumers v?it would have a cargo hold to match the increased output of the strip miners, with 1 extra low slot for a third expanded cargohold [ii]. let's name it \"barsoom\".it would be a miner's mining boat. the big papa bear of exhumers. obviously it would cost halfway between ridiculous and obscene, but as with the hulk, it would be worth the price of admission.would that be a ship the miners among you would want to fly?don't spare your candid remarks. show me you care.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"sure, as long as it can't enter highsec - we already have enough macro miners and large corps stripping multiple systems in a day."
"no....the hulk as it is should only be granted to those who have exhumes iv or v imho.such a ship would make a mess of things... and as obviously pointed out already.... not allowed in high sec."
"being a miner, i would worship this ship, but i don't see it practical from a gameplay balance point of view. if it did, i agree, low-sec only and it would have to have some draw back other than just needing exhumers v and an obscene price."
"it's february and we have seen almost nothing from ccp.where is the report? where are the names? where is an accounting of the fraudulent materials? where is even the smallest measure of transparency on this important issue?"
"seriously, in that wall of text, that's all i read. lets discuss!yes, because your standings to the caldari navy really matter when doing missions with an employer who is at war with them. that's like saying you wanna work at mcdonald's, but don't ever want to see hamburgers. wouldn't that make suicide ganking easier since the sec hits will be less? o wait, you forgot about yourself whining about that last cycle.but seriously, if you wanna give a little, i don't mind ganking...err, taking a little..no, no,and as tchell said, go back to wow. missions are already risk free. you can't make friends with everybody in this game and still be trusted by everyone. additionally, could you imagine the abuse if you could just cycle through available missions,only getting the ones you like/are profitable? oh, that's right, its only an exploit if it involves pee vee peein short, missions need nerfing,not boosting.last time i checked, it occurs on the 9th of march. are you saying that a csm is either ignorant of that or too butt hurt to stfu for one more month? (or both?) i mean its not like missions haven't been like this since...years."
"cultivating decent agents is difficult - there are typically a limited supply of decent level 3 & 4 agents available in a given area, and it takes time to grind the standings necessary to access them.if i end up with 4 or 5 agents all offering me missions that i cannot take due to playstyle choices (such as, not ruining my amarr faction status given i'm fighting for them) then i have several options for other isk generation:1) come back in 4 hours and try again.2) decide to go find some random frigate or destroyer and do a level 1 mission with another corp and gain very little satisfaction, loot or even isk for the privilege.3) mine - because that's always such a draw.4) if i even have the option, drag a mission ship & a salvage ship all the way to an entirely different area of space assuming i've cultivated yet another bunch of high-level agents - by the time i've done so without autopilot i might as well have done something outside eve vastly more productive and just taken a new mission 4 hours later.as a player with a life, and thus limited time, i pick option 1. i see no reason to waste time in eve when i can do something much more fun, and then come back to eve when it is fun again. if i were the game designer for eve, i'd want people spending more time in eve.as my partner says, who doesn't pvp, 'eve doesn't lend itself to playing all day'.a shame anhk that your post will languish here in assembly hall, mostly trolled by those who never do missions, but i applaud the effort in the face of mindless adversity.thankfully you don't run eve, as you're aptly illustrating that you cannot see others' point of view. it's amazing how many stupid people don't grasp the difference between 'cold harsh world' and 'cold harsh user interface to that world'. one can make mechanics far more accessible to a wider audience without sacrificing any in-game harshness.so a player that actually plays a role and thus makes intelligent choices in the game, instead of being gung-ho and shooting anything that moves, is not something you wish to encourage in a roleplaying game? perhaps the problem is in the players, who like you appear to perceive this as simply unreal tournament in space - no consequences, no need for choices, just shoot mindlessly? if your best retort to those who take an opposing standpoint to your own views is to insult and blame their outlook on life instead of being objective, one wonders how you cope in a medium like the csm.pot calling kettle black?"
"normally i don't troll, but really, is your life this pathetic, or were you just incredibly bored? if you can't say anything useful, why speak at all?um, how about making your own thread on your strong feelings, instead of hijacking other people's that are on different topics? the risk/reward balance is entirely unrelated to the op's post."
"not exact, you can use more than one gas harvester. the use turret slots so some race can have an harder time.still equipping a bs with cargo expanders and gas harvesters is a horrible way to pass some hour (but it can be the way to give a krnonos some usefulness in missions ).as athre pointed out, doing half of a mining mission (ice/gas/asteroid is indifferent) mission before dt is the worst way to do it as the target reset and the mission can't be delivered until the target asteroid/ice asteroid/gas cloud isn't completly depleted."
"i see you don't know the difference between security standing and faction standing.or you are feigning ignorance to score a point?mmmm, decidedly trying to score point playing stupid. so far no informations on mission changes with the new expansion. there will be a whole new tiers of ships (t3), a big expansion in exploration (2000+ systems), a new scanning systems and some odd and ends, but no hard information on changes on the standing system. some voices about new missions, but until we see some hard data they are only voices. we have heard voices of \"epic mission arcs\" before half of the expansions in the last 2 years and we are still here with the same system for missions."
"actualy it's correct ... you get negative faction standing for killing that faction ships ... not only for completing storylines for the opposing faction ..."
"i don't really have a problem with the four hour lockout, but i do with the asymmetric standing changes you get in missions against another empire faction. if i'm getting sent out to kill caldari in job lots, the gallente federation as a whole ought to show some appreciation for my efforts.alternately, maybe a new skill is called for. advanced diplomacy, rank 3 or 4, reduces standings loss from killing faction ships by 20-100%."
"i agree the 4-hour countdown is a pita as well but a necessary evil i think and something i can deal with (as others noted just go find something else to do).that said i would like ccp to review how missions are assigned. while i bet overall (on a large scale) the missions are handed out randomly the random generator that draws from a given list can be decidedly streaky. streaks are actually a natural outgrowth of a genuine rng but the problem is the streaks seem to hit a single person rather than the streak being distributed across a lot of people.there have been a number of times where i got a vs. faction mission, declined it and got another vs. faction mission. worse, i got materials for war preparation eight (or more...i was not counting at first) times in a row. i forget the last few i got while grinding standing for a new corp but again i received this utterly stupid \"important\" mission several times in a row (had to drive like 3j in a shuttle to deliver something ).i appreciate that we will not like all missions and occasionally we get some crap we do not want to do and either need to suck it up and do it or take the timer. i just wish there was a better spread in what gets handed out.almost forgot...the faction hit is staggering when you are \"liked\". some noob corpmates of mine wanted some help with some missions. without asking i rambled over to them to help and twice helped them shoot amarr ships. this is the only time in ages i have shot at amarr but figured i had pretty good standings so no biggie...help the noobs. when i was done i lost access to my l4 agents and had to grind up from l2 agents. it should sting some but c'mon...and yeah...i am aware that that makes me the real noob of the bunch."
"several months ago like 6 or 7 months ago eve removed the ghost traming, and the stated responce from ccp was essentialy that it was a bug, that it is not fair to other paying players nor to ccp, because you should not be able train a charactor while not paying, it's unfair to others and unfair to ccp for maintaining said data base for you for free.and now i say in responce to that the following.i pay for my account and as such in my subscription account i am able to create three charactors, i pay for these charactors i should also be able to train them simultaneously as well.there is no reason why i should not be able to train them, what purpose does having an alt slot in your account have, i can only train one charactor at a time, you wont give me skill queing, only one charactor can log in at a time and there is no more ghost training then i should have available to me that witch i am paying for. i pay a subscription and that subscription gives me three charactors choice that i can create and train i should be able to train all three at the same time, there only relation to each other is that they come with one subscription fee.there has never been any legit reason given why we can not train are alts at the same time, no data base issues, no data server side issues, server lag issues, nothing, there has never been any reasons given other than the player suggested responce of greed, ccp has said that they love the game and there player base but that they are also a business.those players who have any reason for needing a second account 95% of the time it has been because they need to be able to log in both charactors at the same time, (carrier cyno alts, fleet scouts, etc) you can't do that with a single account so ccp you would not loose any revenue by allowing us to sim train our alt's.support this pettion with your comments and sign on to get our csm's to bring this to bare with ccp."
"i don't know whether to laugh at him... or take pity on him."
"oh my... i want becuz and i am paying for and dev now becuz and it ain't fair becuz ccp and stuff!"
"i agree with the op we should be able to train our alts, as for the the previous comments neither have more than 6 mths in game alot of weight your opinion holds or constructive for that matter."
"you failed... to support the topic.and no. just... no."
"is this an attempt at trolling?"
"posting with an alt = -5posting like a 3rd grade kid = -10epic fail for troll = priceless"
"no support."
"supporting some form of revamp for tracking. as it stands if i am in one of my auto bs boats orbiting another close range bs boat at relative optimal ranges i hit less then i would at say opt + falloff. as for the comment about making this a more realistic game and its not supposed to be blah blah i don't believe it was intended for us to not be able to shoot a stationary target 2x+ the size of our ship at 0 and not be able to hit it it once. fix this issue."
"pulse lasers certainly were better than they should have been in terms of short range tracking in the 90% web days. you could figure that just by running simple dps/ehp tests, 90% webs meant that short range ships needed to get into their optimals against laser ships nearly instantly or they would not have sufficient traction to win a fight without better skills or equipment(at least on the battleship level). that you were able to kill pulse boats says nothing towards their actual effectiveness."
"the vocal minority of blaster pilots that post all over the boards are wrong(and/or troll alts)there is no reason other than \"its more realistic\" which you have explicitly denied as being a reason in the paragraph above. there is no \"flaw\" in the formula unless you state that the goal of the tracking formula is realism and not balance.and it was just as dumb then as it is now."
"just as dumb' - ok whatever you say... whether or not you choose to acknowledge it, close-range ships are having more trouble hitting their targets, and short of boosting their tracking (not possible, too much of a boost with regards to use of t2 long range ammo), modifying the tracking formula is a perfectly valid approach."
"pulses need a nerf not a buff. not supported."
"like what weakness ? all the low tracking guns have lower dps as the high tracking guns. also if you manage to immobilize a target at 100m next to your capital gun, you should be able to vaporize it as it is basicaly in the barrel of your gun.same goes for long ranged setups. they already have about 1/2 the dps of the same class short range gun.now medium range guns (like pulse lasers) are a problem, but they are again lower dps (or should be) than the close range cannons.so either the guns are not ballanced now and the imbalance will show in a proper tracking formula, or we need to do a few tweaks afterwards. but no imbalance will result.(maybe we'd need to reverse the tracking boost on lasers :-))"
"they are, but the short range weapons are, by necessity, not that far ahead that you can forgo tracking at short range as an advantage.this is a false dichotomy. it is also possible that the guns are balanced now, or require no changes in the formula to get right."
"valid approach to what? close range ships are hitting just as much as they ought to be. you don't need to hit all the time to win, you just need to hit more than the other guy. and if you want to hit more, maneuver for less transversal."
"it's the tracking advantage that this proposal is trying to fix ... because right now, they have a small tracking advantage, but it's still insufficient to hit at those close ranges reliably ...it's like the missiles argument in nano age that they always hit ... yes they do ... for 0.1 damage which is 0 for all practical purposes ... same with close range turret tracking. the advantage in absolute numbers is still irrelevant ..."
"if you immobilize a target then you won't miss it at 100m. you will only miss if you are moving or you have failed to immobilize your target.if realism is the goal, then yes, closer should be easier.however, the goal is not realism, the goal is game balance. having a game balanced so that being closer is always better will result in people try to get as close as possible, with no interest in range control beyond getting as close as possible. that does not encourage diversification in range control, it encourages bumper boats.game balance dictates that being too close must be a bad thing, so that people will attempt to find a comprimise between too close and too far.as i have said before, don't bother with realism in requesting game mechanics. look for something that adds to the game. no game mechanics have been added or changed to make things more \"realistic\".if you think that there is a problem with the effective range of short-ranged weapons, then look for some effective mechanics based on the merits of the mechanics alone. once the mechanic has been developed, then you can go looking for someway of describing it to sound \"realistic\", but that is by no means required.rewriting the tracking mechanics is a massive change, and would therefore require substancial justification. however, if the \"problem\" can be solved without rewriting fundamental mechanics, those options will be exausted first, regardless of what \"realism\" the other option might provide."
"actualy this has worked like that always. the main factor being warp disruption ranges ... a medium range setup is only usefull if you can hold the target at that range. this dictates the need for a gang. close range boats were always solo, because they do not work well in gangs. this was a balanced scenario. now with hictors, dictors and disruptor range bonused ships, combat range can be more variable."
"supporting my beatch"
"needs to be tweaked but this has my support ..."
"superb concepts, worthy of the devs looking at in my view."
"absolutely 100% supported.this idea could go hand in hand with the mini-anchorable idea that the csm's have been talking with ccp about. even more than billboards, it would be nice to see things like deployable asteroid/ice belt structures and things of that nature.also, there have been comments that while the new wormhole space, as of yet, cannot be claimed as current 0.0, they realize that we want to control that space too so they are looking into it. it might be interesting if ccp would implement this new type of sovereignty into current 0.0 and leave the wormhole space completely lawless. perhaps you will be able to eventually deploy anchorable structures in the wormhole space, but you won't have the type of control over ithe space that we could see in current 0.0."
"link fixed"
"/signed."
"long time ago i proposed this idea, i guess we have seen some of it implemented, although i would have preferred an hg sets available as well. but, overall, we can never go wrong with more implants of various kinds. so, sure, lets have some more implants, so long as it is thought out. supporting this in principle."
"i would like to see more implants... and more pirate implants... and more style implants... more cow bell!er... implants."
"most of you are aware that low security systems are usually less secure then alliance controlled 0.0 systems. and while others proposal are based on npc intervention this is not. my idea is to make low security more secure then 0.0 systems, but also to allow players who wish to be pirates and law breakers to continue to do so.lets call it: boosted player intervention (bpi)basic idea is to allow players who desire to be real anti pirates to be so. and would be responsible for boosted security of low security systems.player would enlist himself via new option in stations, similar to militia office.this enlisting will not be just for cosmetic purpose but will give player through time some boosts.enlisted players will have few advantages and disadvantages, lets start with advantages:players enlisted in bpi will get bookmark of fight in system in which he is at that moment, whenever fight starts between targets which are not in war.with increasing rank, he will be able to see who is fighting who (on first rank he will only see that bookmark shows number of targets) through time and progressing through ranks he will see ship classes...up to highest rank which will give him complete coverage of pirates tactical abilities (speed, optimal etc.)like all bookmarks it will allow them to warp to that place 0-100km distance.each time he warps to location, while fight is (hopefully) still in progress he will be able to use any resources at his disposal to shoo away pirates. each time he is successful and manage to kill pirates (double bonus) if victim is still in its ship he will get few points, depending on ship which he killed. number of points will be dependent on ship class, this is just example:bs kill will give player enlisted in bpi 100 pts.marauder 200pts.black op 150 pts.this points which will be cumulative and never will fade, will not be just ornamental. they will be crucial to rank progression.and rank progression will give boost to player ship. this is also just example:when player is enlisted he will got minor bonuses, i used concord insignias as just example of ranks, with idea of boost which will they grant:(lowest to highest rank)updatedscroll downsoldier rank 5% increased resistance of yours ship shield and armorpiranha rank bonus from previous rank and -5% capacitor recharge ratepanther rank all previous bonuses + 3% bonus damage captain rank 10% increased resistance of yours ship shield and armor -5% cap recharge + 5% damageraptor rank previous rank bonus and - 10% reduction of any ewar on youcolonel rank previous rank bonus + 10% increased speed - 10% signature radiusofficer rank 10% increased resistance -10% cap recharge +10% dmg -20% duration of any ewar on you. (-20% cap neutralized or drained.)+ 10% increased speed - 10% signature radiusgeneral rank previus bonus but -25% cap rechargestar rank 20% increased shield and armor resistance, -25% cap recharge +10% dmg dealt -20% duration or effect of any ewar modules on you, +10% speed, -10% sig radius, immunity to warp scrambling.this bonuses looks great, but only best and most dedicated players will reach star rank. and to reach it, it will require (example) 500 marauders killed or 1000 bs`s in order that player progress from soldier to star rank.note: this bonuses will apply to any ship which are you using and only when you using it. it will not be applied in high security or in 0.0 sec systems. while you are in bpi modus, you will not be able to use f.o.f., smartbombs, ecm bursts.... and only while you are in bpi modus this bonuses will apply.player will be able to enter bpi as many times as he or she wishes. when he or she enters, there will be some bad sides:- attacking neutral ships will result in triple then usual security standing and losing a 10% of all points earned. - if points reach 0 you will be kicked out from bpi program for 1 month."
"if you wish to ask what is point of all this? simply to make low security systems safer then 0.0 are. and not to ruin fun for pirates.of course players will be able to see on map where is high number of players enlisted in bpi program. and avoid or be braver to enter this system.this will allow players to use more low security systems, and this programe will not be able to remove or make pirates redundant. because in more populated systems there will be multiple fights, gangs who could take with easy most ranked bpi players. but because of ability of higher ranks to avoid most of things that pirates throw of them it will be real chase of cats and mouses. after all, those who reach star rank, will not be \"solable\" and will have ability to move without fear of scrambling (even in haulers.) will you use alt and waste isk on 1000 bs`s just to get to that rank, or will you start to proactively look for targets...its all up to you. but even star ranks will be easy pray to well organized pirates gangs. few last notes:- bonuses will not be stackable with active triage or siege modules. - one time warning message will be displayed (which can be removed after that) when player enlisted in bpi is in system. - killing attackers will not result in security penalty(it will result in security boost), and pod killing same targets will result in 1/2 of usual security penalty. - ranked players in bpi programe will have a slight chance of faction loot (same loot list like in lp stores.) so soldier have chance to drop not only modules and his items in cargo bay but some minor faction ammo or newbish implant.but general, or star ranked players can drop bpc. but it will be a chance based.so if someone kills 10 times star rank probably will not get navy mega bpc, but if that players is killed 50 times there is a chance for it to drop. those faction items will be based on isk lost in destroyed modules, just to prevent exploits. those who reach higher ranks, of course can be payed to look at other side and not intervene..or just opposite to stay by yours side while you or yours alt :p mine or run those super lvl 5 missions. any idea which would make this more easier to implement is useful. thank you for yours time.soldier rank 3% increased resistance of yours ship shield and armorpiranha rank 3% increased resistance of shield and armor and -3% cap recharge ratepanther rank 3% increased resistance of sh and ar -3% cap recharge, and +3% damage done.captain rank 5% increased resistance of sh and ar -5% cap recharge, and +5% damage done.raptor rank 5% increased resistance of sh and ar -5% cap recharge, and +5% damage done, and reduction of effectiveness of ewar modules on you by 3%colonel rank 5% increased resistance of sh and ar -5% cap recharge, and +5% damage done, and reduction of effectiveness of ewar modules on you by 3%, and -5% penalty of mwd modules and -5% reduction in signature radius while mwd module is active. officer rank 7% increased resistance of sh and ar -7% cap recharge, and +7% damage done, and reduction of effectiveness of ewar modules on you by 5%, and -5% penalty of mwd modules and -5% reduction in signature radius while mwd module is active. general rank 7% increased resistance of sh and ar -10% cap recharge, and +7% damage done, and reduction of effectiveness of ewar modules on you by 5%, and -5% penalty of mwd modules and -5% reduction in signature radius while mwd module is active. star rank 7% increased resistance of sh and ar -15% cap recharge, and +7% damage done, and reduction of effectiveness of ewar modules on you by 5%, and -5% penalty of mwd modules and -5% reduction in signature radius while mwd module is active +2 warp strength"
"bonuses could be applied via ship module (probably low slot) which will be buyable in any stations. to fit it, player would need one of ranks.for every rank there will be one kind of module, which would have assigned bonuses.if player in bpi program attack neutral, and his rank decrease sufficient number of points his module will go offline.those modules will also automatically go offline when player jump to high or 0.0 sec systems. price should be minimal and cpu/powergrid need should not be problematic to any fit, and if player in bpi is killed while having this module equipped in his ship, this bpi module will always be destroyed, and for rp sake, they will get note in local \" secret peace of equipment self destructs.\" ...or something similar."
"i really like this idea a lot. i actually like this idea a hell of a lot.two things. first of all being i think that the bonuses from ranks would need to be nerfed down a bit. not sure about exact numbers, but those sound a bit extreme.second, i'm not too sure how i like the idea of players dropping faction loot and such. i think that if pirates take out one of these deputies, they should just drop what they have and their ship should be salvageable."
"i agree and would add 1 extra point - can you please stick with a normal rank naming system? pirahna and panther seem a bit out of place...and... kind of silly. ;p excellent idea though."
"see, this is a problem for me. suddenly in order to turn a profit the trader has to sign up to getting ganked everywhere he goes?surely you realise this would destroy trading as a profession? and surely you realise what that would do for the wider economy?"
"there's two reasons why courier contracts suck. one is that 95% of them are pirate scams. transporting worthless junk with a massive collateral into low and null sec. then the pirates are either gate camping or have simply locked the door to the station.the other reason is because that other 5% doesn't pay worth ****. there's a lot of cheapskates who set up courier contracts with unreasonably low rewards. i've even seen contracts with rewards so low as one thousand isk. killing a single rat in high sec pays better than these contracts."
"^^this (although i thought the locking the door trick was deemed an exploit...i could be wrong though).it bears repeating though. far and away the vast majority of courier contracts are scams. the legitimate ones pay so poorly that no one would ever want to bother. most everyone at least has a hauler alt or can haul themselves. few will ever pay good money to let someone else move their stuff."
"i wrote this in a stealth bomber boost proposal topic, but it seems to me, there's no much enough players who will read that one. so, the idea:why not to give all missile-based weapons (rockets, missiles, torpedoes, bombs) an ability to not disappear after its owner warped out or died or even used cloaking device?i have some reasons for this:1. most missile-based weapons independent from its launcher operators (exceptions are laser-guided systems and some other). they are commonly 'fire and forgot' weapon.2. this will give a new life for guerilla tactics. just imagine: a couple of stealths decloaks, fires some missiles and warps out! or lets take a look to pve: when npc dies, its missiles will be able to bring a surprise for a player.3. how much players are using defender missiles atm? but after implementing this feature defender missiles must take its place."
"i don't have an issue with this. let that last volley of torps do something to the enemy after you die."
"1. ordinary missiles are not fire and forget. only f.o.f. missiles are.2. defender missiles are not used not because there are not enough missiles, but because they are crap.but i agree with your basic point that at least some types of missiles should still hit and deal damage, even if the ship that fired them dies, cloaks or warps.either this should be true for all f.o.f. missiles, or ccp should introduce a new special ammunition for stealth bombers. smart missiles with autonomous targeting that stay active under the above circumstances."
"no. you shouldn't be able to kill anything unless you are on grid. missiles don't utilize tracking so you can shoot while aligning and never get caught."
"yes, but the launch makes in the grid atm. i have fitted a raven with fof missiles and rigs, with maximal flight distance about 380km. the eve blocked my attempts, so i think there is no problem.next, i used a bomber with a bomb, have launched it warped out. i was not in the grid when the bomb dealed its 8ks, so we have a weapon wich able to deal damage without its owner in the grid.then, lets talk about guns. when you makes a shot eve counts a chance to hit, right? with this mechanism no rounds fired are lives more than its owner, right? gunners are able to shoot and warp out, but missile boats are still vulnerable while their charges flows to their targets or they do 0 damage after warping out.(who wants to tell me learn guns: i have elite gunnery and elite missile sertificates on different accounts, so i'm able to see difference myself, not only with loud words.)"
"how do you balance the fact that 10 small ships should usually kill the 1 large ship every time. will that still be considered overkill? will the guy that took on 10 ships receive no loot because he was \"overkilling\" them?only major flaw i see in an otherwise interesting proposal"
"this could be fun for those people who like taking out larger targets with smaller ships."
"damage to loot due to weapons fire makes sense.however, it's kind of a game design issue regarding the desire for more small-scale combat and less 'ganking', opposed to the game mechanics forcing people into making playstyle choices (and eve is all about freedom, so doing that too much is bad).please discuss this further.by the way, it might be slighty off-topic, but consider module damage when the ship goes into structure as well. people have requested this on occasion, because it is odd that a ship operates at 100% efficiency while it's with 1% structure left and spewing flames everywhere."
"i think it will be years before we see anything like this, but i still think it's a great idea."
"you mean like i blob the target with x small ships and i get all the rewards, however if said target is killed by a solo bs, that bs gets nothing ?there is no logic nor benefit to your idea. your post lacks any kind of detail and i am able to think out quite many ways to go around the restriction ..."
"incredibly bad idea."
"this wouldn't negate larger ships shooting smaller ships. plenty of people still kill for fun, out of boredom, or with higher goals than profit.therefore - it's not forcing anyone to act in a smaller gang. i would like to know if the system would be based on hull class as opposed to role. i.e. an assault ship is still a frigate.i think it would add an extra layer of realism to combat."
"only bump, and if no more support will die"
"your village called... they want there stockpile of tin foil hats back...amongst other things.as for the proposal..... i honestly don't know if its a good idea...or a bad one."
"bumpmaybe some dev will take this into consideration for the march expansion."
"/signed"
"ninja salvager should be agro to mission runner"
"the idea of a player elected council is great on all account. however there tends to be bias, for obvious reasons. is this bad? no. where it does however become a problem is where the size of the council means that the priority list put forward can be skewed. how can this be solved? players needs to represent themselves to the csm! this could be done on the forum, it would however require huge amount of actual work.because of that, i'm working on a system to bring this concept to life. every time the csm submits a list of issues to ccp, much in the same way we prioritize issues, the people should be able to compose their own priority list as well. this has several interesting impacts:1. we can show ccp what the players thinks, not just the \"high-profiled\" players who gets elected to the csm(even if people who aren't that well-known have and can be elected)2. we represent a broader audience.3. we will get an idea about how well the csm actually represents the playerbase. if the priority-lists made from this system is the polar opposite of what comes out of the csm, we have a problem.i'm looking for initial feedback. do you think this brings value to the system and procedures as a whole?"
"is that not the point of our current form of elected representative democracy?anywho, get ccp to add in the thumbs down feature in the assembly hall. i think that might help towards some of what your speak.just realise that as long as 10ish percent of the player base seems to vote for csm or reads the forums, nothing will be truely represent the whole playerbase. just as in rl social, political and economic issues there are many who cant be arsed to be a part of the solution and would rather plod along either ignorant or despondant."
"along with the thumbs down, don't require posting. as long as the player is logged in, so other than having multiple accounts, anonymous votes per player."
"basically you hit a button and all of your stuff (not including carriers, drugs etc) and moves it to your current station. each time you do this the fee for doing it would go up. the fee should start at something pretty high like 100m isk. and should escalate from there."
"considering that there are faction ships for each of the pirate factions, that means they have to have some form of r&d, even if its a twisted form. could be a path for faction t2 ships or less scrupulous tech to get on the market.dl"
"i agree with alex, i too will support this. but would be nice with some limitations attached. as in one time name change with fee. adding a investagation skill into character back-ground would be awesome. the higher the skill the more info you can get. character name, skill points. even maybe current ship. tie this into the locator agent option but require a skill set."
"just reposting what i said in the \"pos: flogging the dead horse\" post:"
"signed"
"any kinda of debate, to boost minmatar bs's, gets my approval.although the tempest would certainly be nicer with that 7th high slot for another ac/arty."
"in the op i try to define the tempests role as anti support skirmisher/sniper or weapons platform similar to the muninn.if you believe ac's are lacking check out this thread"
"not gonna happen...... no-one wants to get in a battleship just to shoot support.....thats what smaller ships are for. tempest needs to stay how it isu can change the maelstrom if u want....but if u change the shield boost bonus, the minmatar mission runners are gonna hate you"
"believe it or not, but there are styles of game play that exist right now that you may be completely unaccustomed to, but that's ok.i'm pretty sure they'd be happy with the passive tanking a/c sponge of doom that 25% to base shields would give."
"ahh so just cos u want to use a ship for sniping, you want everyone to? i get you now"
"personally? i have 3 races battleship to lvl 5 and if i really wanted my favourite ship to be boosted, i'd be asking the ccp for a 7th low to the hyperion.there's an issue with the typhoon/tempest/mealstrom and there roles and this is the best solution i can come up with without screwing up balance.now are you done trolling this thread yet?"
"congrats. so do quite a few people.....typhoon - turret/missile/drone gank ship .... can fit a nice armor tank on ittempest - turret gank ship/sniper , can fit decent plate setup onmaelstrom - mission runner/sniper/close ganksorry the only ship role that needs changing is the maelstrom to be more of a sniper rather than a close ganker."
"i think you've just proved my point.the tempest has roles which overlap with each of it's racial peers.in every case, it's a poorer alternative to them, decent plate setup? with 6 lows? ganking with turrets? who cares when the phoon does the most dps of any bs in the game, and the mealstrom has more turrets and a better active tank.the tempest is pig in the middle i'm sorry to say, with the tracking bonus, and a new tier of artillery, i ope to provide a clear distinction between it and the maelstrom for sniping with little changing as far as close quarters is concerned."
"seriously have you never flown a plated gank tempest before? thats just like saying hyperion and mega are the same....lets change them.....same with the geddon and abaddon.....all dmg ships.....but no we cant have more of them can we....so lets change everything shall we? maelstrom is the only one that needs changing, as its the one that overlaps the other 2 ships roles."
"interesting idea, the tempest does need some work and the 1650's give the minnies some of that alpha 'oompf' they've been missing of late."
"i didnt read it all but if this makes my sniper nano tempest better i support!"
"ill support on my random alt aswelltridane"
"along with your changes i would:i'd increase pg of tempest so could fit 1400s+mwd without rcu like the megathron, hence its 1400 performance vs maelstrom would improve but still 1650 would be the maelstrom's strength. the extra fitting would also help a little bit in close range but would only upgrade a gun or two.maelstrom i think the hp bonus with 7 mids - 4 lows is possibly to strong, mids for a shield tanker are a lot better and 4 lows is perfect (3 damage mods + dc). for example the 7th mid could be used for boost amp hence giving it back the shield boost it had, with the lose of a low that would only be a pds/nano/istab low value mod traded for more hp. 7-4 with no tanking bonus would be balanced like 6-5 with tank bonus imo. hence scrap the hp bonus and go for something else although i'm not sure atm (slap whoever says tp bonus)."
"what about the base hp bonus with the current slot configuration? and if so, a 25% (1 lse) or 50% (2 lse)?"
"nice idea pattern it's about time someone thought seriously about the future roles of the minmatar \"lost battleship\" (tempest).also it's about time that the maelstrom could be used as a proper sniper rather than just a second rate megathron wannabe.you got my vote on this"
"you forgot to check the 'check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on' thing before you posted."
"sure 6-5 layout with a base hp increasing bonus would be great. 10k with skills, lse increases to 13281 so a bonus to equal a lse would be 33%. so probably 7.5% base shield hp per level would be best (with nerfing of recharge so at level 4 or 5 its same as currently). so gives a little more than a lse in a 7th mid without losing the 5th low, which is low value close range but higher value for sniping (rcu/pds without losing 3gyro and dc or a te which is better than tc).p.s. remebered to push support this topic button this time"
"and done"
"i approve :d"
"how about you keep one of them an ac boat and one of them an arty boat.what is the insanity that makes you want both the maelstrom and tempest to be ac and arty boats? aren't you always complaining about how terrible it is that the ships are not specialized? all you're going to do is make one of them suck and the other one be better. a mael with more hit points would be a fine sniper in its own right without adding another size of artillery(could use more fitting and a smaller signature as well). the pest will never be a good sniper but is currently in a niche that your changes do not fix except to make fitting it for its intended goal ******edly easy.just because the mega is the rail sniper for gallente and the hyp is the blaster boat does not mean that the pest needs to have fitting comparable to the gallente rail sniper.how about this:you increase the pests drone bay to 300 and its bandwidth to 100. this gives it versatility in drone choice as it has versatility in med slots and in high slots. this is a slight damage boost and a large utility boost as different drones for different things can be carried. other than changing the armor/shield values you do nothing else.you do nothing but increase the fitting on the maelstrom such that it can fit 1400mm arties an mwd and an lse with locus rigs without a fitting mod.(to start). its not like its pg bound on the autocannon side anyway, so you're not changing its tank/gank role in that manner at all. but what you are doing is allowing it to more efficiently fit for tank, range, and damage. which it is actually pretty good at(minus the range) all things considered."
"yup."
"if ccp removed the limit for how many terms a person can be on the csm and they didn't want an age barrier, i would run again.the point is that we already raised this issue and we told ccp that it was an important issue. the thread alone speaks volume.if i had my way, ccp would re-do pos'es with this concept when they revamp 0.0. however, you have to realize how much work went into the pos system first time around. is that an excuse? not at all. you do however have to realize how much work it will take to pull out the pos system we have now and re-implement this concept.raising this issue again wouldn't change a thing. it will still be a huge commitment which ccp will have to make. ccp wanted to do this themselves. however there's just a limit to how many resources ccp can allocate to such tasks. the pos system is a legacy codebase. so it's a large task. will it have to happen eventually? yes. is pos due for an overhaul? hell yes. but ccp is well aware of this, since we went down the list of all he issues from the last csm when we were in iceland. just like with everything else, it's a matter of planning and allocating resources.but for now, there's no point in us raising it again. because we inherit the issue from the first csm, it's still something we are watching and if there's any update on it, we will know. so just because we don't raise it this time doesn't mean it's off our radar.that wasn't ccp. that was whoever raised it as an issue."
"i don't see the word funny in the first assembly hall post on this issue. it must have been the csm member that raised it to ccp then."
"here it where it originates from. having checked the meeting minutes, you would have to talk to jade if you aren't happy about the naming."
"well actually"
"thanks for pointing that out ... so much for mature csm :-)"
"my point was that reworking local won't require artwork. as you were also told during the csm-ccp meetings, the largest bottleneck for ccp is artwork."
"then, lv, we need to make ccp commit to the idea of overhauling the pos, they have plenty of resources. no one ever said it was not a huge project, what i am guessing everyone wants to hear is that: \"ccp knows it is a huge and difficult project, and they are working on it, and will be working on it, until it is done.\" thus far, ccp provided nothing, well, an excuse that it is \"too hard.\" until then... please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"csm was never made in order for the playerbase make ccp commit to them revamping entire systems at the time. would the average player rather have, for instance, mining changed or pos? i think the average player would benefit from changes to mining rather than pos, which does work. having a pos myself it's workable. sure, it's not fun. but mining is less fun."
"so far you have said - re doing it would be too much work because they would have to make new graphics (didn't they redo every ship in the game not to long ago)it works even if they don't like it (nano worked too even if they didn't like it, whats the point of ambulation i mean we can talk to one another already why do we need to walk around to interact, and why oh why did they redo all the stargates didn't the ones we had allready work?)every arguement you make is a very bad excuse as to why they don't do it. 3 years they have said \"it needs to be done\" 3 years people have requested it. if csm brings it up again maybe they will get the hint that we really want it. csm is suposed to represent what the player base wants and is feeling about things. if the player base still wants this brought up then csm should feel obligated to bring it up no matter how many times it takes so long as the player base asks for it."
"most diffidently we need a skill queue in place at least 5 skills queued would be nice"
"we've needed this for years, after 22 pages you'd think there would be some response."
"you haven't read the thread then. there has been a response and there will be further info soon."
"carebear uses it when the big evil red crosses have him in a bind. fw folks use it to call in reinforcements. pirates use it to trick the kind hearted to \"help the poor tackled newbie\".something for everyone. could be fun. seems simple enough to implement as well, but what do i know."
"i go u one step farther how bout a capital class miner with 6 or maybe as much as 10 strip miners required skills exhumers lvl 5 as prerequisite to capital exhumer also same skill set needed for rorqual, as such it can only fly in low sec or null sec high. high hit points but low resists or vise versa will differently need a large bodyguard fleet"
"so predictable...hell no. the hulk is already bad enough. 4 strip miners? why not make a ship that devours whole asteroids in one second per asteroid?"
"great idea! and then if can refine it as well and build small ships too."
"big no. got a problem with your hulk? add an orca. still have a problem? quit the game. the hulk does way too well as it is. its an effective shield tanker, has an insane amount of mining capability (though you may have to max your skills shocker) and is very strong with an orca. we don't need a better exhumer ship. wow is -------------->--isaac"
"even better, you can dock frigates in it, and it poops out cans filled with free isk everytime you enter warp.we can call it the carebear mobilelet it shiiiine."
"1) too complicated i think. maybe a bigger cargohold would do.2),3),4) signed.edit:5) why? i think they tank well enough as they are now.6) (scan resolution) signed."
"blackops will be getting a fuel bay and will be able to jump into cyno jammed systems.this is scheduled to happen during big patch in march if not sooner."
"i don't know how many times by now i have had to say this. but ccp is obviously busy.as for the names, you should know by now that you will never get them.just wait and you will get the report. it's not that hard . i will however shoot ccp another mail to ccp to hear what's up."
"exactly my point. you get faction standing hits, suicide ganking give security sanding hits, so how a skill that decrease faction standing hits will help in suicide ganking as terra suggested?"
"but... you can get the skills, right? or reject the mission and go to another agent?the problem here is the way downtime interferes with mission objects, i agree that is a problem. but i don't see the issue with mining missions, they are incredibly easy to avoid. eh? this only happens if you use a mixed combat/courier agent, there is a system in place already for this.i don't understand why this is bad?again, confused, why is this bad, sounds exactly right.how are you locked out of the game?then... don't run missions for soe? and anyway, what is wrong with lowsec?i've rejected missions before, i have never been forcibly disconnected and banned for 4 hours. i'd suggest raising a stuck petition if that is happening to you.hell no, if anything it should work the other way, if you have high amarr standing then the matar are gong to want you to demonstrate that you have genuinely switched sides.sure, why not, whatever.missioning isn't supposed to be a zero risk isk conveyor. you can already manage your mission types by agent department and faction selection. i also never got the impression that it is intended to be outside and above of the standings system, you have to pick a side and take the benefits and penalties."
"the biggest and best mission change that needs to happens is: either spreading out the high quality agents more, completely getting rid of the quality system somehow, or allowing people to accept and run missions anywhere in that agents faction space."
"sounds like a good mission to reject, then. if what i have read above about not being given a \"no skills required\" gas harvester is true, though, that's pretty lame. it doesn't seem very fair that a mission be given to a player who does not have the capability to complete the mission.i haven't done a mining mission in ages - but if this is true, that's pretty annoying. not game breaking though. i'm not sure why it would be true - aren't the mining missions \"acquire x amount of y from this special location\"? does the y disappear from your cargohold during dt? if so, that sounds like a bug.there's a very good reason why an industrial agent might give a kill mission: some local pirates / rival faction / drones are attacking his mining vessels, and he doesn't want to wait for the paperwork to clear over in the security department. makes sense to me.funny thing is, there are people that have positive standings with all (empire) factions. it takes some time and dedication, but it can be done.that said, when i started playing, i had no understanding of the standings system, and that i would eventually be unable to enter gallente / minmatar high sec space without being attacked. ooops. well, at least joining fw didn't change my world much!it would be nice if, when your standings reach the -1 mark with an empire faction, you're sent an evemail detailing the \"dire consequences of your brutal attacks on the x empire.\" just to give newbies who don't know any better a heads up before it's too late.i gave a plausible scenario for a mining agent giving out a combat mission. here's one for the reverse: the security agent is using his influence and control of the mission running budget to line his pockets with some ore that he needs to build a personal project - and paying you to do it is cheaper than buying it from the market.there are also existing mission stories about a special ore / mineral with the potential to be weaponized. sounds like a security thing to me, not something i would want a standard mining pilot to handle.do you even read what the agents tell you?overall, though, i'd have to say that the mission system is fine. and, please, stop tossing out this \"stop trying to tell me how to play the game!!!\" line. it is old and tired. nobody is telling you how to play the game - they're telling you that the mission mechanic isn't broken because your massive crowd of agents isn't giving you the exact mission you want every single time.and, honestly, i'm really surprised to see the original post come from a csm member."
"+1 for mr drake :p"
"hmmm,we do need skill training queue because we all cant be online everyday. as far as training all 3 character at once i don't think so. alts should be on separate accounts"
"o7 @ proof that the cake is not a lie."
"i laughed."
"what is a charactor? some sort of weird cross-breed of a charade and a tractor?"
"no, they have a large tracking advantage and its quite sufficient to get an advantage in short ranges so long as you do not refuse to use it.this is not true, medium ranged ships do not always require keeping them at that range in order to be useful, they are useful as ships close and the time that that takes extend. combat range can be slightly longer now, but only non-battleships have a greater advantage than they used to and non-battleships are easily engagable at longer ranges by blaster pilots(sub-bs almost universally will want to be hugging the target). as well, the lack of 90% webs and reduction in speed fits(which negated all ability of blaster ships to kill smaller ships) have shifted the balance towards blasters(where as with 90% webs they could not achieve sufficient transversal to reduce incoming dps on similarly sized ships and with nano-ships they could not engage smaller ones nearly at all)."
"well i see many people talk about the use of blasters and they state that the effective range should be optimal+some falloff ... however at these distances we start reaching pulse laser optimals ... you lose dps due to falloff (there goes the dps advantage) to make your tracking actual work ... so what's the point to use blasters ? you cannot be up close because tracking will lower your dps and being at your effective range again lowers dps because you are in falloff ... and you don't even have the range flexibility a pulse laser can offer ..."
"sorry but this is completely untrue. speed fit hac's were perfectly good targets for blaster battleships using null l prior to qr. no you wouldn't always kill them, but you could still do enough damage to drive them off.lack of 90% webs with no change to short range tracking is not a boost apart from your fantasy hyperion vs. abaddon 1 vs 1 fight that you like to roll out as example. as i demonstrated before the qr changes came out, a zero-fit stabber within minimum skills can orbit a maximum skilled ion ii megathron all day long at 1-1.5km (bar wrecking hits), with no amount of manoeuvring to reduce transversal allowing a hit. how you come to the conclusion this is somehow a 'boost' quite frankly boggles...."
"i completely support this. have stopped flying mega's and hyp blaster ships since qr."
"you don't need to orbit at full speed. close to within optimal and adjust your speed so that your chance to hit is around 75%-60%. his chance to hit will then be around 62%-43%. your not going to negate his damage completely like you can against long range weapons, but you can certainly gain a significant advantage if you can control range/speed. if you let him control range/speed then he will push you out into falloff since he knows he can't beat your tracking, but he can beat your range."
"you were not supposed to be able to hit a speed fit hac's with battleship turrets at close range. that is why the changes were made in the first place."
"i was referring to the claim that blaster ships were unable to hit smaller ships in the 'nano-age', and therefore we should view qr as a 'boost' - as i said, it was perfectly viable to land some (read enough) hits with null l as they generally stayed in the 20km-ish range.with the current situation however, cruiser class ships don't even have to fit for speed tanking to avoid large blaster fire, the stabber example (from about page 12 of the 44 page blaster thread) had no modules fitted, cruiser level i, and was orbiting at base speed while webbed. that's a little ott in my opinion, but clearly you disagree with that."
"i like your idea but it may be difficult to implament programing wise and if it was implamented major changes would need to be applied to the tracking of guns in order to maintain a balance between the sizes of ships. as currently if a cruiser got close to a bs even orbiting it at a reasonably high speed your changes would mean most of the bs volleys would hit even with artillery.blasters need a slight decrease in damage and a slight increase in tracking to make them viable at their current ranges, currently they lack the range for their tracking to be effective.as for realistic tracking i find it strange how maintaining a consitent orbit around a target increases the targets transversal velocity."
"some of this (licenses) might not be easily implementable without large mechanic changes, but a small area of standings where they'd be allowed to fluctuate (configurable by the sovereign alliance, say -2.0 ... +2.0, where shooting their reds in their sovereign space would have a small standings gain, again customizable - the really bad standings and really good standings would be reserved for the real villains and allies) would likely be doable.also needs more standings slots to work. i think the providence folks stated that they ran out of any of their spares a year or two ago. just face it, due to how things usually turn out this will lead into a massive red list.and oh, supported."
"very interesting idea. i would like to see some in depth discussion, but on the surface, it sounds good."
"maybe one could teach me how to link properly?"
".... looking at the shifty face of the original poster i am wondering what is his angle... i agree that the jobs should not be able to be canceled by low ranked members but the input output targeting player hangers is usable for corp theft. this is a proposed mechanism for corp theft in the guise of a security improvement. there is no need for this as lower ranking untrusted members can simply be given access only to less important materials and bps.recapping: no need, thumb down."
"i raised an issue about it just a few weeks ago when we were in iceland. head over and find the minutes from that meeting."
"i totally agree, for the price of a dramiel, i can buy and fit two wolves or jaguars with rigging and still have some cash to spare. even if a price drop to somewhere between 6-10 million were somehow implemented, their worth would increase quite a bit."
"thank you both for support. yes i do think that piranha and panther are little bit odd, but i didn`t want to ranks be same as in militia office...so those are example of ranks and progress.if you or someone else post nice ranking system instead will use it instead of existing names. but before i do that i wish to see what more people thinks about this."
"you're talking about giving inherent combat bonuses to people who choose to fight in a way that you approve of. that's completely against every principle of how eve is designed. sure, i could see giving anti-pirates a sec standing boost for it, maybe even concord lp(though probably not). but 20% resist bonuses and a 100-point stab, over and above everything else? that's crazy. even if it was a 1% resist bonus for how you choose to play, that's too much. how you play affects what you get, it does not assign global buffs and debuffs."
"first proposed bonuses are just example. second 1000(bs)*80-100mil isk (minimum) not taking in calculation modules, rigs...people should waste,destroy to gain star rank. do you really think that you will able to do that in few years period? i admire yours contribution to this topic, but you really should read it all, before throwing hot oil."
"you think i didn't read it all? yes, i know it's a lot of work to get to high rank. that's not the point here - the first rank is too good, never mind the last. the scale of the bonuses can be tweaked to be less obviously unreasonable, but that doesn't change the fact that they shouldn't exist at all. you're trying to give a buff to people who play the game your way, and do it in a fashion that doesn't make sense from the point of view of either fluff or game mechanics."
"you would agree (i presume) that current game mechanic made safer 0.0 systems then low security? also ccp tried to force people out of high sec (49% characters never left high sec space.) they tried with material redistribution, seeding good agents in low sec systems. it didn't work. my proposal is not radical, its perfectly balanced, space sheriff style (lonely wolf) who is trying to cleanse systems from well organized pirates. few bpi pilots can gang together but points gained for progression would be drastically reduced.so you will 99% times should see 1 player in bpi program who fights with minor gangs. and at the end its totally logical that empires which have interest in theirs territory supports players who will \"defend\" merchants, industrialists and other axes of economy with modules which are still in testing...to venture more deeply into space and game itself. making low security systems safer then 0.0 are."
"0.0 is safer than lowsec because there is a group who owns it and will defend it. lowsec is a hell of a lot safer than delve for you or i(to pick one region of 20 that's true for), but since the only people there are either allies of the sov-holders or enemies looking for a fight, it's got a lot less random death. yes, one of the residents can usually mine or rat unmolested, but it's not \"safe\" for anybody else. people will defend what is theirs against encroachment, as long as it's worth defending. people will not defend what is somebody else's unless they're either getting paid to do so or they enjoy the act of doing so irrespective of consequences. if you want lowsec to be safer, you need to give it an owner. somebody who will defend it, and make it safe for their corpies, even(or rather, especially) if it's deadly for everybody else. you will never make lowsec safe for the unaffiliated hauler pilot - it will always be, and should always be, dangerous as hell for them. promoting anti-pirate activities is a sideshow at best. defense outside of highsec comes from allies, not from randoms. the best anti-pirate is a target who uses their brain, and buffing the hell out of your preferred play style won't change that. as for how much sense it makes, i have to disagree. empires do protect people to the best of their ability - if you're too much of a bad man, they shoot you on sight. if you're a bad man in front of their guns, you'll get shot. thing is, that's frontier space. they can't protect it as well as they can highsec, or else it'd be highsec. giving people passive buffs based on who their friends are is crazy. being considered a good fellow by empires gets you the right to access their space, work for their agents, and trade with them at a discount. it does not give you massive bonuses that stack with everything while you're working in space outside of what they can effectively control."
"dear lord dude, you have to get off this notion of insane stacking boosts. the op has already stated that different bonuses need to be applied to attain balance.in my opinion, it's not even about the buff of the system, but the bookmark. getting someone who has vested interest from one of the major npc factions into a fight with pirate gangs would be awesome.this also isn't about the op wanting to force people to play the way he wants them to. this is about adding incentive to low-sec. if the buffs to the system are made in a balancing way, pirates will still have plenty of targets, but once in a while they might have to fight someone who is ready for them.don't flame based on numbers. numbers can be fixed and changed to create balance. it's the idea that counts. from a role-playing perspective this makes total sense, given that the game has been running for 5 years or so. empires are growing, concord is under pressure, and pod pilots step up to the plate.from a practical perspective as well though, this will not kill pirating. if you nerf the bonuses (possibly no bonuses at all even) these deputies will not be indestructible by any means, like concord is, or have unlimited spawns, like concord does, but they could provide a more dynamic environment in low-sec.i think ultimately its a good idea because its another reason to go into low-sec and it needs as many as it can get."
"despite appearances, i'm not actually flaming on the numbers. the numbers are utterly unreasonable, but that's a secondary point - as i've said a couple times, i object to the principle as much as the numbers. also, i don't see how this adds an incentive to lowsec. it doesn't make it any more profitable, and it doesn't make it noticeably safer. all it does is take a rather silly activity, one that is difficult to accomplish, unprofitable, and even harder to find playmates for than normal piracy, and add a ranking system for it. factional warfare has proven in part that a leaderboard makes people like things, but i still imagine it'll be rather a flop. anyone who wants to be an anti-pirate is already there, and people who want normal pvp i don't expect to be especially attracted to this at the cost of most of their targets and all of their softest targets. furthermore, if it's about the bookmark, go with the distress signals thread - that has an interesting solution that can play into this sort of theory, and do it both reasonably and well. this thread, however, is not the answer."
"i agree that there should something implemented which makes it easier for players to do anti-pirate stuff in low sec, well implemented distress signal feature (somewhere else in this forum) would allready help.but i am against giving them better stats. not to mention these ridiculous overpowered stats."
"i agree as long as you let pirates get a bm to all active haulers and miners in system. this system is so open to abuse its insane that you cant see that."
"bookmark will appear only when fights between targets which are not in war is in progress. so if you or someone else is happily mining or running missions or plexes there will be no bookmark to yours location."
"finally got around to buying an orca. i am totally disappointed. was able to use 3 mining modules, however there is a need for a a tractor beam which restricts you to only using 2 modules. hangar can only be accessed by corp members. fleet members in mining expeditions cannot refit or use hangars. not very productive in a fleet mining ops. only 2 low slots for a ship that needs pdu's for shields. cargo expanders are a must for the low slots as well. for the going price of about 500 mil.. not an efficient mining ship.would like to see the following changes:1. one extra hi slot for tractor beam.2. two extra low slots.3. members in ganged fleet have access to hangars and refitting when given permission to do so.that's my 2 cents on it. agree or disagree it doesn't matter."
"highlighted the funny part.but that's just the tip of the iceberg.oh and read the description on the ship again... you'll see that it is in fact... not a mining ship.it's an industrial command ship.... or something along those lines... its specifically designed to be used in a fleet... an corporate fleet... no less.but since your just filled with fail.... i'm going to assume you'll be ignoring me anyway.ps: orca's make a mean salvage ship no less.... unintended side affect? x o d"
"only part number 3 made any sense at all, the rest was just plain wrong."
"you already have (3). right click on ship, select configure ship and check the checkbox.this allows people in-gang but not in corp access."
"they represent to me the latest statement in ore theft... the high slots are for tractor beams only..warp steal warp steal warp steal...why is this in the assembly hall? move it on moderators"
"liar ! or almost clever troll ? hmm, i wonder.it's like saying a raven is not an efficient blasterboat. duuh !"
"you are able to tractor containers that do not belong to your corp?"
"you guys are reading into this wrong. when he said \"3 mining modules\" he meant gang links...misunderstanding+out of context ftl"
"let me respons to this without completly ripping of the op's cranial cavity.the orca was designed as many have said as an industrial command ship, and in that role it does pretty well. i currently pilot one and with 5-6 macks or hulks orbiting like drones it is a seksy beast.now as to your changes.1. since the capaciter link is completly worthless in high sec (cap recharge needed ofr 0.0 tanks) you should only be running two links anyway. let big daddy rorqual handle the 0.0 stuff.2. i completly agree with you on this one... more low slots is always good with this monster.. would mean les trips for me to the station.3. members in your fleet do have access to you hangers if you set it up properly, they can put in but they can not remove.. havent tested the refitting thing but i don't see any harm in allowing fleet members use the refit tool.. the user would have to have the modules in his cargo hold anyway.now if you wanted to add a 4th high for a salvager.. i would go for that hahahaha"
"agree with #1 and #2 but corp hanger is for corp duh"
"it seems the op doesn't want economies to exist all her suggestions are geared towards making life easy for pirates and mercs and screwing everyone else, the op wont be happy til eve is space counter strike."
"not only space counter-strike, it's one sided space counter-strike.from the way i read it, the op only wants the corps that had a wardec imposed on them to be blacklisted from trade, not the corp doing the wardec'ing.we need a giant gong smiley..gonggggggggggggggg!either way...fail"
"try more the along the lines of ganking industrialists at little to no risk.who gives a flying rip about the war-decced corp in question."
"you read it wrong.it would apply to all warring parties, regardless of who started it."
"industrialists will have to be a bit more careful in their business relationships.that is all..."
"flagging people for market interactions is a stupid and unfair as how would a small corp without industrial capacity face one that had a solid industrial base and also the people trading to the war dec'd people are still under protection of concord as they are not criminals.the one change i might like to see is the ability to wardec individual people particularly in the case of npc corps as you may know who an alt spy is but be unable to do anything to deal with them. if someone in a player corp was individualy war dec'd it should be the corps option to turn it into a full war. the one problem i see with the individual player dec is that it can be abused by pirates and griefers."
"this issue is still unresolved - more votes needed."
"now that its possible to achieve certificates and medals, you have the possibility for sharing it with the world. but i have seen very few people who actually allow the public to view them, i figured it would be an disadvantage for your enemies to see an minimum approximation of your skills. what do my fellow capsuleers think of having an permission setting for allowing corp/alliance to view your certificates and/or medals?"
"i'd rather we all quietly forgot the wasted developer time spent on the ridiculous certificate functionality, which is at best pointless, and at worst misleading to new players.but that's just me."
"it would take a lot of ratters to make a lowsec system flip to highsec (if it was possible - read some of my earlier replies). and pirates would have time to kill them in the meantime, bringing security back down. it would also decay to less secure over time. the point is it just really mixes things up and makes eve even more player-controlled."
"ninja salvager should never be aggro'd to mission runner, mission runner should stop giving carebears a bad name and learn the deal with their wrecks.jeez, you guys make me ashamed to be a carebear sometimes."
"ooh, i've got an idea...[x] the mission runner should be aggro'd to the ninja salvager!all mission runners, upon salvaging a wreck, should immediately be aggro'd to any ninja salvager that are currently in that deadspace pocket. this would be verified by the higher level of salvaging training achieved.thus, if the ninja salvager has salvaging v (as i do) they become the owner of said wreck, and any attempt to tractor and/or salvage said wreck gives aggro of the mission runner to the ninja salvager.i like it. what do you guys think?"
"here is the article regarding new space and wormholes - makes for an exciting read i think."
"fixed to reflect ccp's timetable."
"the problem with the csm representing the playerbase is in my opinion caused by two things: voluntairy voting and numbers instead of percentages.because players can vote or not vote, you will always keep those that don't vote. now i am not saying enforced voting is the key here, because i know from experience you will just randomly pick something then. with a blank vote that gets added to the majority it could however work. or simply add blank voting to the next csm elections as an option. secondly, since votes are numbers, and it is a fact a lot more players take part in hisec activities rather than lowsec or 0.0, you get skewed results. now i realize democracy = the voice of the majority. but this is at the risk that people will simply vote for hisec stuff and wish to stay there ect. while ideally you would have an almost evenly spread across all three security levels. well, excluding alts though, which are prone to stay huddled up in hisec unless they got good reasons to venture out of there.it could be a good idea though to have monthly or so votes in which people can say which issues that have made it on the agenda they want to see adressed + from which viewpoint they are saying this. if a majority from 0.0 brings up one issue while hisec players find this to be fine, then you know there is in fact a problem in a specific area despite the total showing that a certain minority seems to find something a problem and the rest doesn't.hope that makes sense"
"that makes sense and is somewhat what i want to try and do with this project.every 2 months when we talk to ccp, all issues that the csm has voted in will be released to the public with a system to vote for the issues that people think are important.say you have 5 issues. a player will go to a website and they will assign all issues a number from 1 to 5(1 is most important 5 is least). then all the votes are tallied up and the least points will become the public's top priority. the same thing will be done by the csm and in that way there will be 2 priority lists representing both the elected and the public.this way we can get a good view on how well the csm represents the playerbase too!"
"and how are you intending to implement this system?"
"that's the least important part. but i'll just throw up a page in rails/asp.net/whatever language i feel like. but it will probably be rails, as it's an opensource platform so that csm3 can use it if they like"
"as long as i don't have to count the votes - fine by me :)"
"i like the idea of a skill set to get info out of characters such as an alias. i think that maybe if it were to be implemented that way, that may ease the minds of the players whom feel that someone can hide from them. are there really that many of you that are stalkers?!i disagree with limiting. if they charge real money, that's a revenue stream for ccp which is good for them and what is good for them is generally good for the players. if they charge isk, sure have it double each time or something, nice isk sink.i'll say it again, the implementation should be left up to ccp or the csm. there are balancing concerns, cost concerns, ect.. that's what they get paid to do. can we just agree that the having the ability to change your character name would be a desired feature?"
"i 100% support this... nothing like trainin training training to get in ships to only have them nerfed!go pattern"
"supporting this"
"tempest of love."
"supporting this.also lavista i'm not entirely sure you've ever tried flying a tempest against a mega if you think the tempest can beat the mega 1v1 \"if the pilot is good enough\". the mega has to be badly fitted at the moment pretty much.i did a load of testing on sisi with myself in a tempest (battleship 5, t2 large autos, full slave set, strong exile booster) vs a megathron pilot (battleship 4, t1 large guns, no slaves, no exile) and lost every time. i tried plated, i tried active repped. i tried gank, i tried full tank. i tried ewar (tds). the tempest just can't compete with the mega."
"you're a bad liar or a worse pilot."
"can you even fly minmatar?"
"i fly tempest most of my times. i'm a 95% minmatar user. and i can say this for sure. your totally wrong about the tempest dark flare.3-4 months ago on sisi, i was testing out the tempest to see what it really was good for. well i have used the tempest for years, but i just did a very good test of the tempest there with the close range setup.this is the ships i was fighting on sisi that time.i have been fighting 14x megathrons and won over 10. been fighting 5x raven's and won over 4. 3x typhoon's and won over 2. 4x armageddon's and won over all. 2x apoc's and won over them both. 1x abaddon and won over it. 1x tempest and won over it. 2x maelstrom's and won over both. 1x dominix, lost to it and 1x hyperion and lost to that one to.so after my results that time, it's very good tbh. this was also after the web and speed nerf.i wouldn't call that for crap results dark.if you just can use your brain a bit, your tempest is more of a pain to others. it's more dangerous than it looks, or after what the stats shows."
"well, the only thing that could be erroneous about my test is that it was pre-web nerf. so it was impossible to dictate range."
"lol i have to agree with the goon guy, ive had a navy mega in structure before i died, and i had a hurricane on me aswell as the navy mega. and no the mega wasnt poorly fitted"
"what minmatar also needs is:tracking enhancer also affecting falloff, you can tracking disrupt falloff but not boost it?also it would be nice if the tempst could fit 1400mm arty like the mega fits rails, and had a bit more locking range would not hurt.if you boost the tempest, do not forget the fleet version ;p"
"bet he wasn't carrying null.a mega does more dps than a tempest, and has more ehp, and if it wants can field a better active tank."
"not many people carry null bcos they either dont have the cargo for it or dont use it bcos they think its crap. but yes mega does have more ehp but doesnt mean the tempest cant win against it. its all down to the pilots skill"
"double"
"not the mega you claimed. in fact the pest you claimed you were flying did more raw dps, more real dps, with longer range, more utility, better tank, and better raw hit points than the megathron.i won't say a pest will always win against an equally skilled and fitted mega(ps, fly a hyperion, they're better in every way), and i also won't say it will always lose, but i will say that if you, in a slaved, exiled, tech 2 gunned, bs 5 tempest can't beat a tech 1 gunned implantless mega then something is up."
"bump + some extra info.apparently, it is now confirmed (latest csm minutes) that roughly 40% of the mineral market comes from npc loot instead of mining, which might seem like a big surprise to some."
"akita t gets my support."
"this is made of win"
"this was the one month split for all items reprocessed measured mid-august to mid-september 2008.mineral || ore%||loot%|| drone compounds% || || ||tritanium || 46% || 43% || 11% pyerite || 29% || 60% || 10% mexallon || 30% || 59% || 11%isogen || 21% || 56% || 23%nocxium || 18% || 32% || 51%zydrine || 43% || 18% || 40%megacyte || 44% || 39% || 16%morphite || 77% || 1% || 22% * ore is minerals from the asteroid ores * loot is modules, ships, charges, drones for example.* drone compounds are loot items from rogue dronesdata provided here by ccp chronotis."
"drone damage modules should be in high-slots imo, or it would be too easy to superpower a ship."
"i definantly think drones need some work, starting probably with webifier drones. as they currently as not worth using as they are incapable catching up to many ships.the addition of a light webifier drones with a -5% speed effect and a speed of something like 4000-5000 m/s and a medium webifier with a -10% speed effect and a speed of 2000-2500 m/s would be a good start. as the current heavy drones are to slow to catch mwd ship. 5 lights would reduce the targets speed by 22.6% and 5 mediums by 41% as compared 5 heavies current reduction of 67.2%i do not believe this would imbalance the game though it is possible that the speed reductions effects may have to be decreased."
"so what ive gather so far from the reasons ccp havnt done this are:(1) its to hard.(2) this idea will require a lot of artwork and mechanics.(3) they dont have the amount of resources required.(4) shareholders who they have to satisfy.(1.1)to hard? how? i know that changing it would be long and sumwhat annoying but its something that the people want!we are about to get ambulation, where we can walk around, change cloths, install bars, buy drinks, hire staff, play mini games, watch dancers, have awsome shadows and yet changing poses are to hard?? just do it.(2.1)tell me what kind of artist doesnt like to come up with new designs and models? if they are good artists they probly would already been playing with the model and making it all pretty.(hell iam not that good but ive already added a evebackground and a skin to that new pos model).(3.1)from what ive heard the people working on eve online has gone from 90 to 300, most of who are probly working on ambulation. so after ambulation is finished there is no reason why they cant start on this.(4.1)shareholders? tell them to shove it! this is what the customers want! happy customers = happy shareholders.so thank you to the csm for all your work so far however you need to keep taking it to them. even if they threaten to kill you! you must die for this ;-)so now go and ask ccp when? not can we. ;-)"
"incorrect. nanos broke the physics engine. any speed over 8km/s ish breaks it.the point is that it adds more content to the game. because gates were still running on the textures that was used before trinity. it had to be reworked to the new engine.you are entirely missing the point here. the issue is still an issue in our system. we talked about it briefly at the end of the csm-ccp meetings. ccp is well aware that the current pos system is awful. raising it again won't make a difference.hell, when we discussed this very issue i actually said to ccp that this is the most well-supported issue off the top of my head. it's really important."
"nope. they are all working on apocrypha at present."
"oh really??source: warcry interviewwell, quess we now know what to ask..broad sweeping changes, but only those ones that take little work..."
"there's a large difference between forcing ccp to do it and suggesting that they should do.what jinx is suggesting is basically that we tell ccp that they must. we already suggested they should do this. but they have their reasons not to."
"and what did ccp say? i can see it now... torfi, wearing a brown robe with a hood, pats csm on the head, and says, \"- soon young padawan, soon, until then we have to defeat count doku.\" all jokes aside, what did a ccp liaison with you actually said, when you mentioned the most supported thread on the forums?and yes, ccp has to be told that they must channel some resources to a problem that has been band aided to death for over 3 years. or, if you prefer, pretty much since the inception of pos it has been a band aid on top of band aid, but no real fixes."
"there is definantly an issue with missiles at the moment but they still do hit everytime. i could see setting their explosion velocity to the average speed of their intended target class. i.e. up cruise missile 69m/s explosion velocity to 101m/s the average speed of all battle ships without speed mods. that would be a good test to start with to see if that it brought the issue under control.i don't know if there are any skills or implants that increase explosion velocity which would make them overly effective smaller ships."
"please give me my cnr its power back!/signed"
"all the way"
"0.0 should have something static that people would fight for to pull real pvp off of the gates and pos's that would effect an alliance's income or something like that. currently the only way for small allaince's to even make a dent in people's isk making ability is by sitting in a ratting system cloaked keeping everyone docked, safed and cloaked, and pos'ed."
"here's the csm minutes where this issue is discussed quite a bit"
"read the original suggestions.read the csm minutes on initial discussions.heartily approve. in fact, i had intended at one point to write on this myself, but see most of these suggestions as being identical, will save the effort.\"hammerhead gave a homework for the csm: brainstorming on this issue.\"i'll start another thread for this homework, however.--krum"
"ccp is definitely drawing the \"surprize!\" picture.as usual, no comments, petitions are being closed without any feedback, and finally we'll get something awful that even joint couldn't help to recognise what it was supposed to be and how to use it.please, say something. 3 pages of supporting messages calls for reaction, even \"yep, we know\". this silence really blasts me out."
"a friend of mine use to hunt macro miners, trick was to tip their cans and they would comeback to it and put more in it and hence were destroyed. it was kinda funny and they stopped using that system or at least marked my friend as hostile so they macro could warp them safety the moment they entered the system. macros can range in sophistication from crude to so brilliant you couldn't tell it from a human miner. so it really is hard to tell who a macro and who isn't."
"here's your skill queue. please enjoy and thank your csm representative."
"i thank ankh!yes, yes, i thank you too liking it a lot, if this is the way it will be implemented i'm one happy camper."
"i vote to lock this thread seeing that it will now be implemented come march 10. all in favor..."
"op updated.rest in peace, thread and, of course, thanks csm dudes, this one was well worth the effort."
"this."
"/me signals distress support"
"light a cyno.accomplishes everything you want to do, doesn't require any changes/new coding/etc, and places a penalty on the person who signals for help to prevent abuse."
"i can see it: \"oh no! i'm being attacked in my mining ship, good think i equipped this cyno generator!\""
"any mining ship would be dead long before anyone could warp to you anyway, thus irrelevant."
"%100 percent support here."
"supported. cruisers getting away from interceptors w/ >2000 scan res (i've been both the cruiser and the inty) in lowsec is broken mechanic"
"must not be miners! u shouldnt complain 'strip' miners and builders are what kept prices down and if ul like than maybe could have a penalty for more than 4 miners ie, longer cycle time. and as far as one roid a sec that's a gross overestimation even with maxed skills its take hulk at least an hour to strip one belt in 0.5 sec space"
"started this char as a miner and i would agree with what was already said, the hulk is already good enough and should be put as iv or v. if you're a serious miner, you'll go for level v anyways for the bonuses, so that's not a problem."
"not a good idea"
"any reply to your mail?"
"the only reason i can guess about it not being possible is this one:1 account gives you 3 characters, if you want to do anything useful with more than one, you need to split your training time on them, more time needed training to achieve a desired goal means more money for ccp, so thats it, pure greed.for those nay-sayers, get lost, you are a plague, like cocroaches. no use whatsoever, but the occasional sickness, go compare your epeens elsewhere, preferably to some far away place like czd, get your ships busted and return to your beloved forum whining for nerfs practices. if it where for you game's eula would include the obligation of playing with just one hand at a time."
"wow called... they want there subscription base back.look its simple.... very simple for the low iq crowd like the guy above including the op.so simple it hurts.you pay for one account... they allow you to train one character at any time.what would happen if you could train all of them at the same time?now you got at most 3 characters training all at once the same things... so every subscription will have a buffed hauler... a buffed miner... and a buffer combat pilot and or any combonation.those who have been playing this game for years would frown on that something fierce.if you want it that badly then pay for the additonal account or stfu and gtfo.the only time i will support such a notion of multi-character training... is if there's a penalty for doing so... such as a training slow down of 25 to 75% to balance it all out.otherwise forget it.wow is that way don't let the door hit you on the way out.i don't like having to train only one char... but i've learned to appreciate it considering how nasty it is to go up against a skilled pilot... its nice to know i won't get trounced by some idiot kid whose only played for a couple weeks."
"you have two character slots, one being taken up with your main character. use that character to save up isk and then buy a character from someone else in the character bazaar, or make a second account to make the toon yourself. i'm relatively noob to eve, being here about half a year, and can already see this is just a stupid idea as well. sure, when i first started and was greedy, wanted that training, but that is just over powering and would diminish contracting and the markets considerably. so, we got a skill queue now, and you want to keep whining cause you can't have an easy game to play. please, toss your character into the biomass and just gtfo."
"simple to understand, blasters and ac's are broke and need to be fixed."
"so in your world cruisers have to waste a precious med slot to survive ? why do you not fit a tracking computer on your bs instead ? your approach towards a new tracking formula sounds logical to me, but it does not guarantee a good game play. game play > realistic simulation.despite all emo & whine towards recent expansion/patch, pvp works in qr. you still see big ships annihilating smaller one. what changed, is respect and caution. no megathron pilot can ignore a smaller ship anymore. no vagapilot can (generally) laugh at a frigate. pre-qr they would just crush a meaningless small worm. now a competent enemy pilot asks for respect, and if a bs/bc pilot ignores it, he may take his toll."
"i support this idea!"
"as a player and corp that doesn't like pvp, i would be more inclined to venture into 0.0 space if something like this was implemented.the main reason i don't go there is because of all the gate camping to get there and then having to deal with being bullied around.i'd rather like to buy a license and make some stuff the alliance while being able to do my own thing with protection.i fully support this idea."
"to me, currently, 0.0 is a bit like <U+FFFD>, the empty set. i'll support anyone who suggests anything to make it a fuller experience."
"bump"
"see that picture of a world globe 5th along under the white chat box hit that then put your link in and then put what u want the link hyperlink to say"
"not that i have had any problems with eve connectivity (ever).most of this seems to be isp/core related and one could argue that the problem solving part ain't ccps responsibility.however, since alot of the worlds isps and core network providers have integrated traffic shaping methods into their networks the last few years (and increasingly so the last year/months) ccp might rethink.could it be possible for ccp to change the ports used for eve to those for other popular services (say wow). if a isp decides to block those ports (or ts them) then there would be more end-user complaints than from just eve players (and more commonly used ports are less likely to be messed with).it's been along time (over 2 years) since i last checked eve network protocols so i'm really talking out of my ass here but it's a thought."
"you are not alone with these thoughts!"
"i remembered something about changing ports in eve and yes there is a limited option.by doing this."
"i think eon-awards shouldn't just be a really gorgeus thing that the guys from mmmpublishing sends you, but it would be interesting if they could also come in the shape of a medal or an item much in the same way the alliance tourney medals came in the 5th tourney."
"if eon was run by ccp i would agree, but as they are an independant publisher - no"
"i don't post here that often anymore, but this does sound very whimsical."
"eve has gotten huges and the new bs are caps. just about everyone and their sister has one. the problem is moving them. it just doesn't make sense that there is 0.0 cyno generators and not low sec ones! have you ever tried to move a cyno alt around to pick up 900m in trit orders? you should! -- you'll want to self destruct yourself! background...think about it... wouldn't low sec cyno generators (lscg) exist in low sec for the existing npc corps?? hows do the navys get around? how do these outposts get fuel and supplies? the fact of the matter they would exist and since they do wouldn't pilots have access with the right standing? of course they would... so where are they?! they're coming and when they do they will add yet another exciting dimension to the game!not only are they a great opportunity to help speed up the game a little, they also will create more action and opportunity. it just isn't realistic that in order to move caps around one need to fly a silly cyno alt around. making lscg interesting...how would they work... a cap pilot will be able to select station in their \"jump to\" menu that are in range and that they have appropriate standings for. however, there will be a 50% chance a jumping cap will land 1000-2000km from the outpost. and there is a 5% chance a pilot will bump directly off the station itself sending your cap hurling into space. so beware when low sec jumping! also, system pirates might keep some caps in the area to encourage a bump offs... and remember, using a lscg is by no means a walk in the park... the system might have eager pirates just waiting for cap to bump and kill. jump with care!faction counts...a pilot and corp faction will play an important role. the more lscgs an npc corp has the higher the required standing would be needed and cap pilots player standing would be automatically subtracted off corp access. for example lets say u have a -3 personal standing for your low sec piracy and your corp standing is a 8, your effective standing would be a 5. if an 8 was needed for access you would be denied access until your personal standing increases.with the addition of lscg we hope to see ccp adding new capital npc events that will randomly and periodically jump in and out of low sec systems for fueling outposts. this will create an npc avenue for pirates and other entrepreneurs wanting to take on a npc cap and its support fleet. beware! the faction hit would be significant!please give this idea a thumbs up and add more detail how it would work."
"great idea! i think this will actually help eliminate caps because people are inherently lazy and will just blind jump without thinking of the consequences. also the faction idea is good... put greater merit on it and rewards high faction. good job!"
"ccp might need to strengthen low sec nodes tho... i could see hot drops on hot drops on hot drop fun... faction wouldn't be n issue, all ud need to do is fit a cyno on the carrier that did have faction then light it and the rest would follow! then bob would do the same on top of you and next thing you'd have is eve crashing!!! great idea!low sec node crashing for the win!!! we recently did some low sec cap/fleet action... did u all approve the ships loss reimbursements yet?"
"cynos should be limited-nerfed; not expanded. between jump clones, jump bridges, and cyno-capable mega-ships the \"easy travel\" options are way too easy these days."
"good idea!a few more: i would make the spawn just random on-grid from the station instead of a discrete all-or-nothing system. i also don't see the purpose of the sec penalty. finally, maybe it could be made such that you must wait 1 minute before and after jumping stationary in which time the cyno gen would show up on overview to everyone."
"cool idea. this would be really nice and also save a lot of scrolling when counting wartargets. supported.you might want a new title - i have to admit i thought you wanted a spam/language filter in local!"
"adding my support to put this back on the front page."
"sounds like fun!"
"so you'd rather open a way to suicide 4-4 with no sec hit? as for the idea, would just add more lag for something that's completely unneeded."
"im pretty sure this one would never work, for the exact same reason splash damage was removed from torpedoes. hitting other people in empire, thus making empire a non-safe place (it is supposed to ofer some safety, not max though). imaging killing a ship in empire and some unhappy fella was passing by in his pod and gets blown up? i'd be ****ed :)also, there would be so many ways to abuse this. who wouldnt kill a corporate battleship i.e. in front of 4-4 for the sheer fun of blowing up other people and harassing them? now, do that 10x times in a row, you get loads of blown up ships at undocking point + pods for no penalty/loss/risk/consequences, as long as you just blow up 10x battleships belonging to said corporation members who just insured their unfitted bses to blow up unhappy people at jita 4-4 or at gates etc abusing the ''splash'' system you're reffering to.that ^ sounds lame also one of the many reasons mines were removed aswell i think. just cause they could hit people irrelevant to an empire war and that would cause people to whine, as it did in the past with said mines and splash damage of torpedoes."
"pretty sure mines were removed mostly to the lag inducing effects they had since they never disappeared unless they hit something.. additionally someone who dropped a mine days prior in low security would get concorded if they were in high sec when the mine hit someone.but anyways, not supported, splash damage = bad."
"while it would be extremely cool to watch a titan go up and wipe out half of an inbound fleet, i'm going to have to come down on the side of no in this case.the potential for abusing this system is so huge, and not just from the ganking perspective. consider this:some corp war-decs you, and you conveniently catch them in empire space. they destroy one of your ships (unfitted of course) causing splash damage to a nearby unaffiliated ship. which you hired to be there. they take the sec penalty for damaging an \"innocent\" and concord shows up to make their lives hell.the same principle can be applied no matter who takes the security hit for damaging the innocent ship, all that would change is where the innocent ship happens to be parked."
"maybe an amp slot like the slot 6 omega ones.so lets say there is a 11th slot. you could get this implant that is an amp say 5% - 100% depending on how epic the amp slot is and link it to another hardwiring slot, but not allow it to amp an omega implant, for obvious reason.this sound better or just meh?"
"you can do this already. they're called jumpclones.i have one jc for industry, with the appropriate hardwire slots fitted, one for combat with combat implants (and less expensive attribute implants, just in case), and i am working on getting together a set of implants for mining for a third jumpclone.viola, 15 hardwiring slots."
"um, thats not what i mean."
"you cant have your cake and eat it too."
"what's the point of having cake you can't eat? i've never understood that one. back to the point - i don't see a need for more implants."
"why? i don't see the point, honestly, other than making one's character more powerful. what would this change do to the game that would improve it? what need is it filling? as far as i'm concerned the current implant system is fine.ten more? why not twenty? or thirty? or... \"over nine thousand\", as they say?you may be able to convince me. you just need to work harder for a thumbs up."
"this would reverse the most evil nerf to shaqil's implant. i don't think ccp would allow people to bypass their nerf. i'm afraid such a feature would allow people to have more fun than ccp wants people to have"
"hello!with contracts and direct trading like now, there's way to scamm people . but with t3, will it get nerf? i dont think it should.so, this is issue - keep scamm with trade/contracts on t3 ships. no rest for idiots!"
"support my thread"
"how about waiting for the damn patch/expansion set before you become an idiot yourself?"
"my, you are rude. have you bought my raven for 300m?"
"too late..."
"a friend once told me..... you cant fix stupid....guess he's right.yet i keep tryng : o /"
"you pay me 150 million and ill think about it..."
"one issue that seems to come up relatively often is how cheap wardecs happen to be, conversely i find there is an issue with how cheap it is to create a corporation. alliances cost about 1 billion isk to make, but corporations are just pocket change. i suggest the start up cost of a corporation be raised to between 50-100 million isk. this will prevent to some degree, corphopping, at least in the instance of creating a new corporation to avoid a wardec (the same for disbanding and re-corping macros, for the ones that use player corps that is).an additional consideration could be an \"application processing fee\" of say, 1 mil per pilot that joins, as an overhead for all the \"database\" changes npc facilities would have to make and relay to recognize the pilot in that new corp. this would also reduce corp hopping by making it costly for entire corporations to switch around alt corps. i'm not suggesting this to be \"pro wardec\" as i think those prices need adjusting, i am however anti-coward.. at least to the degree of leaving your corp during a war and coming back when its over. too many corps starting up and closing for no purpose and i believe this would help solve the problem."
"once again, supporting my own topics.. the least i could do for myself."
"wardec the corp that left the alliance aswell, problem solved.people leave said corp and join noob corps that are untouched by war decs? welp, life sucks but it still goes on. kill them in empire with suicide-caracals what could though be implemented would be a ''timer'' of sorts. i.e. how many times you can join/leave any corp in say 1 week. that would bring a solution to the problem you are stating, but it would cause so so so many others i guess. mainly of the cheese&whine category ones, if you get my drift"
"it seems the main point of my problem was missed due to my added ideals of what it would fix.the problem is, making a corp is far too cheap, regardless of anything else and the cost should be raised significantly."
"so what? i dont think it'd be a nice idea for lets say a group of 5-6 *new* players to have grind their but*s off in order to be able to create a corp all together just to enjoy having their own corp for themselves and have their laughs and giggles alone etc. and it's not really a problem. don't think anyone really thinks its a problem.i think eve already has plenty of time/isk -sinks, and it wouldnt really need more, since low cost of corporations isnt really a problem for anyone.isn't that why you really started this? be honest you're pis*ed because you declare wars on alliances/crops and corps/people leave/join others to avoid the war.. 0.0 mate. problem totally solved. no wars and stuff there. just you, them and some guns and maybe spirits and an exotic dancer in your hold."
"no it isn't actually, i've never held nor been a part of a wardec vote/initiation in my entire eve career. i proposed this because making a corporation is far too cheap, that's my primary concern, the addons were incentives that this would provide to inform others who might take a liking to this idea.i'm not trying to make it into an isk sink, i'm trying to put some sort of value on corporations. your suggestion that new players shouldn't have to work a bit to make their own corporation is inane at best, as the same thing could be said for 2-3 10 man corps that want to make an alliance which costs 1 billion isk. so either the price of one needs to come up, or the other needs to come down for either of them to be justified where they are at. as for your 0.0 comment, thats where i am right now, so try not to make assumptions in regards to driving forces behind ideas.tbh, 50 mil to start a corporation is more than reasonable, while 100 mil to start a corporation is more in line with alliance costs."
"nope....your proposal is good in intentions but it changes literally.. nothing.your proposed prices are chump change even then.... because most corps victimized are noob corps to begin with... stifling growth of new teams is stupidly wrong and just flat foolish.all your going to do is encourage npc hiding.the only way your going to encourage growth and prevent corp hopping is to have the war dec carry on for the pilot in question for a week or more.and raise the prices of war-decs by a factor of 10... if not more.or have war-dec prices dependent on the number of members on a percentage curve.war is never cheap... and in eve... it most certainly is.... for most anyway... which is one of the reasons a lot of \"smart\" corps join alliances... to make it expensive... and a risky proposition at best.you could even have it based on sec ratings or the number of recent poddings or something.... things that usually highlight a griefer corp. there are such things as \"war crimes\" are there not?war-dec's need to be more interesting.... all they do is allow you to shoot one another.victory conditions as well as a forced cool down period would also help greatly... and thereby remove the need for hiding.additionally... while your throwing a fit here... isn't corp hopping considered an exploit?it should be..."
"i believe there is already a thread about adjusted costs for wardeccing, and this isnt it, while the matter goes relatively hand in hand, this was a post about corp costs and reasons for why they should be raised, not about reasons why wardec fees should be raised (which they should, but again, as per title, thats that the proposal of this thread)"
"coulda foold me... take your own advice."
"full support. insurance shouldn't be payed by concord to those who are destroyed by concord."
"yes..lets war dec those in ncpc corps... whoops.nice one smart ass."
"can we please have killmails generated for ships that self destruct when under fire ?currently some corps/alliances have the habit of self destructing to avoid loosing their ships to enemy fire when tackled and outnumbered. this makes their kbs look better and stops some of the embarassment they should feel when doing something stupid.if someone does this the km should still be generated but the person that self destructs should show up as doing the remaining damage to their own ship."
"a killmail is generated... for the person who self destructs.kill it faster, why is you having the kill mail somehow more important than them making sure you don't get it. seems you both have equal footing. additionally, you don't know for a fact they're self destructing to prevent the kill mail, they may be doing it to destroy all their faction/deadspace loot that they don't want you to get. system is fine as imho."
"i've thought for a while now that it's totally incongruous to need weapons that can reach the pos itself through the shields in order to take it down, and how cool it would look for the fire to be absorbed by the shield itself until it goes down, not to mention the fact that it would allow drone boats and small ships to get in on the action (defences not withstanding), which would make hisec pos takedowns at least a little less boring. also the ability to use short range weapons - and so short range dps - means that it'd take less time to take a pos down, which all contributes to minimising boredom (again, especially for hisec pos warfare)here's how i see it working.i'm assuming that the shield is classed as a special collidable object permiable to ships with the correct credentials. as such targetting a pos with active shields would trigger a fallover to make the active target the shield itself. distance is then calculated the same way as for the bounce of the ship off of the shield surface and the object is \"destroyed\" when the shields fallif this is not how the shield works then it's much harder to implement of course, but a boy can hope..."
"so i get at least one support"
"the \"shield\" as you so put it is \"not\" that bubble around the tower, the shield is a self contained defense barely past the edges of the tower. that large bubble you see is a \"forcefield\" designed to prevent ships from getting within a certain radius of the tower itself also preventing a lock of the entities within the field.while the rest is speculation i would assume that the tower itself is targetable because of the massive energy it would need to give off for this forcefield, as opposed to the untargetable mods and ships inside."
"fix it mofo."
"done"
"you're the best csm ever."
"so, i read the recent csm notes. bravo--glad to see ccp interested in our collective input on this topic, and even:re: colonieshammerhead gave a homework for the csm: brainstorming on this issue.so, let's get started. first, i perceive sov, offlined 0.0 pos, pos management, low returns from 0.0, and a variety of other issues as all linked. in other words, a good solution to sov (and hence the nature of 0.0 in general) will address all these concerns at once.my 2 isk recommended approach (high-level, since that's what devs want) is as follows:1) implement planet colonization, divided up by zone/continent, and transfer sov levels 2+ to planetary and near-planetary space objects. a) planetary colonies require purchase of a general charter (0.0 use), or specific faction charger (lowsec use) for each zone to be connected to orbital structures. b) planets are connected to orbit via \"space elevator\" structures, around which main defenses should be based. c) planets consume trade goods and raw materials (possibly some new, like iron and other elements), and require \"colonists\" of various types based on their charter, which are purchased from empire (primarily). d) planets produce trade goods (including \"refined\" colonist types), sov points, and planetary defense/assault items.2) reduce pos to the maintenance of industrial space production, moon-mining, and (for the larger pos) creation of shielded safe spots. pos in general can be greatly weakened.3) implement player-placed objects inside \"environments\", detectable via probes (soon to be made more accessable in apocrypha), and producing some semi-passive resource stream, research service, or other value-add.4) implement a logistical \"system control bunkers\" for higher-sov systems, who's primary purpose would be providing coordination/scheduling for small, destroyable npc transports for items in-between system deadspaces, pos, and planets. other possible purposes could be to address cloak detection in the system, or coordinate defense (npc ships?) and scanning features.5) trade goods and smuggling must be addressed to seed empire buy/sell orders for planetary colony goods--including \"illegal\" goods sold in empire.6) apply refined npc ai to 0.0 system rats, have them target player structures (including offlined pos) and attempt to destroy+loot them, and otherwise conduct themselves in a rational manner. permit hiring/luring of npc/faction agents to outposts/stations in accordance with standing of the sov-holding alliance and other factors.tl;dr version -- planet colonies good, pos bad, player-placed structures good, better npc ai, and 0.0 agents.remember, empire is the source of all isk, and if 0.0 is going to become a true colony as opposed to just a source of capsular-produced resources (and godlike wars), it needs the huddled masses of empire to go out and assemble all those consumer electronics and such that the folks back home demand.that's been the pattern for earth's colonization episodes, and should apply in eve.please discuss and brainstorm more.--krum"
"they do need to be boosted.. atleast back to pre-nerf status.. i had another proposal that died for bringing back their dual sensor strengths that they used to have."
"interesting idea. i don't think i support the idea of bookmarks and bonuses, just because they seem really artificial and a bit too special, but a special group which can attack pirates in lowsec without sec hits would be nice. maybe something like attacking up to -1 sec status in 0.1, -2 in 0.2, until only -5 are kos in 0.5. but i do like the idea of a special \"concord militia\". and of course you would get \"anti-pirate\" pirates (kind of like the militia pirates) which would be very interesting. supported."
"kaya, i know you are a good-hearted carebear, albeit a gallente scumbag but i'll have to side with herschel yamamoto here.the proposed system will undoubtedly be abused and exploited in ways we can't even see now (and i already see 2 ways to do that)and yes, it's not the specific bonuses that are problematic.. after all it's up to the devs to decide on the specifics. it's the simple existence of those bonuses benefiting only one side that i'm not comfortable with, as well as the bookmarks/beacons without explicit authorization of any party involved in the fight (see the distress signals thread).btw, an 'unlicensed' fight in lowsec doesn't necessarily mean that one party is pirates and another one is a victim.also, as it has been mentioned above, safety comes only with control over certain space. and from what i heard, there are plans on the drawing board for some kind of \"space holders\" system to be instituted for lowsec. it won't be tomorrow, but i'm keeping my eyes open.two sidenotes:1. anti-pirates are pirates in disguise more often than you would think.2. \"-5% reduction in signature radius while mwd module is active\" is probably the silliest and the most useless bonus one could come up with"
"i love it!well said!o7"
"one idea i had was to change the strength bonus to a range bonus on the other recon ships meaning an arazu could damp a falcon at range."
"forums are not a democracy, my hypothesis is that a well supported thread have a chance to get attention from csm representatives, nothing more and nothing less."
"space is not too crowded in general. but with the more efficient ways of travel (superhighways, jump bridge, cynochains, jumpfreighters and most importantly warp to zero) the population can move around alot faster. this leads to empty swaths of space filling up in minutes and then clearing as fast again.it's not a big hassle to move an entire fleet from tenal to period basis nowdays. stain is a region which still \"behaves\" somewhat like old-school eve when it comes to travel but in most other regions we see the ease of access quickly turning a previously empty stationsystem into a major battleground within a few hours.this might be good or it might be bad (it depends on who you ask) but it clearly has made eve \"smaller\" from a pure interaction standpoint.personally i think this needs to be addressed. either by increasing the size of the known galaxy by huge amounts of new starsystems, as well as separating the high sec areas by lo-sec/0.0 and/or removing the superhighways (it's no small wonder that jita is always crowded when it takes 10mins to get there from the rest of empire).economical fees based on market sizes or turnout would be another way to break up trade hubs into multiple smaller centers of trade (wich is good for market pvp).there's no real exploring left in eve since the starmap tells you everything about every system (aside from the new w-space systems). and the possibility for small groups of entrepreneurs to set up a deep 0.0 business project is extremely difficult.when ccp opened up the drone regions it really got alot of new folks into 0.0 (that later changed when larger entities integrated those areas under their domains) but in the beginning the area was teeming with explorers and luck-seekers who lived from poss and traded with each other in space./my 2 cents"
"you mean these minutes?"
"glue applied because of meeting minutes."
"i cannot believe that you guys did not bust ccp's balls over their stupid idea to distribute sov over multiple contention points(nearly all of which don't require or support player interaction and benefit entities that reduce player interaction the most)"
"cool - thanks."
"this round of the csm needs to be told that.................they're doing a good job. very professional (outward at least)"
"i'm jon mccane and i approve this message."
"not supported.better would be a per item or by weight option. make some use of those npc convoys we see going around, with scheduled departure times, etc.especially a fedex of space. fast, but expensive (but not prohibitively so)"
"supported.however, the items would be flown around by npcs with paper-tanks. shooting one would only spawn the faction police, not concord."
"the idea is to get everything you own into a nice tidy pile so you can clean it up. i imagine it would remove millions of records from the eve database and would be a boon for players to get everything in one spot. make it take 24+ hours make it so it cannot be used as an inexpensive way to resupply yourself in 0.0 or station war situation (npc couriers don't fly to 0.0). for single fedex items the contract system is already in place. face it flying from station to station across eve with a freighter sucks. it should be expensive."
"too much, two simple things are needed:- allow covert cynos in cynojammed systems- give bo a separate fuelbay (or a much bigger cargo bay or reduce cost for jumping/bridging - comes all to the same)and that is all the fixes needed for the ships to do their intended job, but those fixes are needed, they were suggested in this way by the csm and also acknowledged by the devs in zulupark's q&a threadyet i have the feeling that they are forgetting about it once again and these long overdue fixes wont be included in the march 10th expansion which is something the csm should address imho."
"supported on two conditions.1> history of names is part of employment history log (or similar but this seems a good place.)2> maximum 1 name change per year (or other arbitrary period designed to avoid name skipping.)people who buy characters want to change their names, fair enough. people who change corps, or play styles, may want to as well. i know it would annoy people who have enemy fc's on their buddy list; hence the extended period of the name change limit. people should *rarely* need this, but for those who genuinely want to and have good reason to for their own game play satisfaction, the option should exist."
"signed"
"no waaaaaaaaaaylogistics and carebearism do not have to be simplified again. it's against their gameplay : would you like a single module that would tank you, boost your dps, mwd your ship, **** a dd, cloak you and cynoing all at the same time ?it's simplifying industry, and some people actually play 100% of the time as industrialists.industry shouldn't be made easier for pvpers, it should be made deeper for industrialists (and i'm a pvper).in general, industry shouldn't be as easy as it is now. in term of sp (because pvpers tend to be able to cover their own needs), and in term of gameplay (because it's all based on waiting times). if you're talking with industrialists, they are saying : \"no more 1 man job, please, we want our fleets too and our hardcore specialized 'wings'.\", \"more depth\", and \"more useness for a carebear corp in 0.0\".currently, since all new easy logistics we have (jump freighters, pos jumps, rorqual/orca and so on), logitics in 0.0 can be made by a few persons.if you remember well in 2006/2007, it was freigthers convoy, with a defence fleet. and it added carebear/pvper cohesion, sort of. the ones needed the other.now 0.0 eve is turning like \"1000 pvpers need only 10 carebears\". it is not fair !!colonies, administrated by a few person (and the others having to die in boredom resupplying it, because it is not their favorite thing to do) is not fair.it should be 20's of true industry players that'd have to admministrate this thing (a planet, like earth, is administrated by how many persons ? resupplyed ?).give them, i don't know, ministries : health, politics, education, trade (...) with skills to train and something to do there so you won't have a single omni-god player playing with this whereas 1000's of people would die resupplying it and envy the omni-god.it should be the opposite. one resuplyer, dozens of administration players.about colonies fuelings poses, again, no. i'm 100% sure you don't have to simplify logistics anyway. it's allready sure (count how many jf, freighters and rorquals are killed per day, vs how many are safe), i don't want them to be safier by warping to 0 to pos then dock to 0 to substations and nothing more.colonies should produce either npc goods, or new materials to play with (for t3 modules, maybe, or a new way to produce poses, with actual bpo instead of bpc, or implants, or i don't know, but a whole new industry tree).it's not only that a new industry would be an interesting thing for industrialists, it would motivate 0.0 alliances into considering their carebears other than resupliers and sov holders, considering them as a true strength of industry, playing and serving to the alliance (like never using empire for things like bpo, implants, poses, skills and so on).another exemple, a pvper could dock a fitted/rigged ship there, ask a special reprocess/repackage very very small (made by another player) and ask a package on another colony when the special repackaged ship have been moved by a player in a carrier or another ship.industrialist should be our fulltime gardian angels, now they are just semi-usefull carebears to any current 0.0 powerbloc.they are more usefull as pvpers than as carebears.(soz for engrish)"
"the 'pest used to have mad alpha, and it was cool. then bs hp was boosted :(it makes do as a fleet ship, but is inferior to the competitors. it's terrible for theorycraft solo, and inferior to other ships for practical solo. oh yeah and autocannons suxxor. same falloff on different tiers, but a useless optimal increase? seriously?"
"totally support this... stop hating minnie ccp"
"changing drone bandwidth would be sweet =)i <3 my tempest already and i am looking into a mael =)"
"i dont even use drones, and i agree they should be buffed/ made more central of a weapon system.the \"unfocused\" aka i just shoved 5 drones in my ship for the lil extra. should keep their current ability to use and employ drones. but we need to add that other level, where a ship is centered around drones as the primary method of dps instead of a \"boost\" like 99% of all ships use it now."
"."
"executor corps in eve should have to make a vote (notified by evemail) to the ceo's of all the other corps in an alliance whether or not they will disband. if the alliance doesn't pay it's bills, an evemail should be sent to all ceo's telling them of the potential delinquency. everybody should be able to see who voted and how they voted. alliance bills receivable/payable should be viewed by all ceo's in each corp. other issues to include on rights:-war decs-alliance hq-sovereignty-outpost upgradesbasically, if an alliance is going to make major political changes either for within or for external reasons, it should be the concensus of the entire alliance leadership. however, limit the roles to the ceo's for a speedy process. (and not every director in the entire alliance or every political role given)min timer on all votes: 24 hours (1 day)max timer on all votes: 168 hours (1 week)person does not vote, then they automatically abstain. majority yes - action is executed.majority no - action revoked for 24 hours.majority abstain - action revoked for 24 hours."
"lol, a little disappointing at bob's disappearance? i for one, welcome our new goon overlords."
"i have to agree and it is not sour grapes about bob on my part. no doubt they would have done the same to goon if they had the chance.it is just a bogus game mechanic and it scares me that one person can get a bug up their ass and wipe out everyone's work with the push of a button. so many other, more mundane, things cannot be done by a single person without backup from others. this seems spectacularly powerful a thing for one person to do.disclosure: i am not nor ever have been a member of any bob or goon corp/alliance. i have no dog in this fight."
"yeah eve is brokenone disgruntled player can ruin years of effort by many thousands of players at the push of a button.i guess ccp never saw this coming.fix the interface to require votes and roll-back bob into existence.if you dont then its gonna happen again and again to different alliances, until players realise there just no point in doing the alliance stuff if it can all be destroyed by one ass hat."
":argh: support denied.the entire reason we formed an alliance is to be able to avoid the stupid \"vote for wardec. wait 24 hours. put wardec through. wait another 24 hours\" crap."
"alright well lets roll back maximum yarrage and every other single alliance that was stolen this way as well.. just for the sake of fairness."
"according to the mittani (i think it was him who said it in his interview) this has happened before. just nowhere near this scale.well...it was done as intended under current game mechanics. a roll back would be too much i think. just fix it for the future."
"there is a big difference between making a war dec and dissolving an alliance of a few thousand people instantaneously because one disgruntled person got a bug up his ass about something or other."
"should treat your directors better and/or not put ultimate authority in the hands of someone you don't know if you can trust or not, maybe? seems like sound practice to me."
"this has no bearing on what side you are for in the massive threadnaught called, \"b0b is fail.\" i really don't care about the politics or the bribery, or whatever excuse somebody wants to give. this thread has only to do with mechanics of the game. no one person in the alliance, whether or not it's the founder of the alliance, the ceo of the executor corp, or some random director in the alliance should ever have that much power to completely erase 4 years of thousands of player's hard work in one fail swoop that takes 30 seconds. whether you agree/disagree with the current events, i don't care. please vote if you agree on some of the things mentioned here. if not, please be constructive and state why. ok... so i could concede the wardec thing."
"going to point out that 'majority abstain = no' is also terrible due to the fact that sometimes things need to get done 'now'. well, what if a couple of your ceo's are on vacation and suddenly you can't do anything because they 'abstain'?you need to think this through some more."
"i am not sure a specific mechanic need be decided here. just that ccp should put some tripwire in place. maybe have a 24 hour period where nothing happens once the \"dissolve alliance\" button is pushed and another director or ceo can un-push the button. have an automated e-mail sent to all members that says \"alliance will be dissolved in 24 hours from the time of this note.\"waiting 24 hours for an alliance to dissolve is not that onerus.i'm sure people could put forth lots of mechanics. point is to have some ability to stop one person who got his panties all in a wad over something or other from being a \"you lose\" button for a few thousand people."
"why? they havn't done anything about it happening in the past, why is it special now? bob are not special, sorry."
"the misunderstood thing here is there is no \"dissolve alliance\" option... all the corps need to be kicked out or leave on their own accord. yes executor corps can kick out member corps with no regard, which is how it should be, the same way a ceo can kick out a member without needing to vote on it either. additionally, all ceos/directors in alliance \"can\" pay alliance bills, they just don't have access to the alliance wallet and have to do it from their own. heads of the alliance are there for a reason, they arent there to get everyones vote, they're there to provide the decision making process for the alliance as a whole, usually thats why theres one holding corp for alts so everyone can keep up to speed.. this voting process is removing power from those who it was willfully given to in the first place."
"it is special because of the scale of the thing. this affects all of eve when the alliance was on this scale. of course for those of us on the sidelines it is all fascinating to watch and even an opportunity.but one guy should not be able to wield power on this scale. there is supposed to be balance in games and this is not a balanced mechanic. it really makes no freaking sense. it'd be like the president of the united states hands over a substantial portion of us military equipment to the russians, turns off all the nukes and radar defenses, dissolves the united states entirely then goes to bed. just absurd."
"real life analogies don't apply to this situation well. read the post above yours.i'd post more but work is over and i'm going home now. ciao."
"sure, fail mechanic needs correction..."
"it does not make sense in a game either. i understand what the guy above me is saying and it makes sense. nevertheless allowing a single person that kind of power is silly. it's called game balance. the issue here is irrevocable and profound changes to all these people. not just kicking one corp here or there. if the executor corp holds that much power fine with me. but then the directors should come to some accord or have a veto option or somesuch so no one person can undo everything.i strongly suspect if it happened to you then you would not be so keen on this mechanic.no one is calling for a roll back (except that one guy). just plug this glaring hole in the mechanics."
"actually, i've had an alliance stolen out from underneath me before. i said \"welp.\" and wardec'd them, shot them for a while and then moved along.like i said, this isn't special just because it's bob or just because it's big. it has happened before, it will happen again."
"i agree"
"an interesting idea, given that ccp are now looking at the 'book mark my ship' option.essentially you're just asking to be able to drag the bm to a chat channel, including local.such a functionality would be useful for other reasons too , e.g. covert ops.alternatively, a new option on the ship or channel menu could be \"send distress call\", which automatically flashes up a \"help me!\" message in local, makes your pic flashy green and enables people to warp to you. this would require more coding but may not have the same overhead as bms might.potentially a spam problem and extra lag but worth looking into, perhaps."
"ships that decloak after jumping into system can not be locked for a few moments. the targeting attempt will fail even when the ship is clearly on the overview and there is no sign of elevated lag.i found that with a interceptor specifically built to catch things at gates (sensor booster + 2 signal amps) it is still impossible to catch a good number of ships for this reason. impossible is not an overstatement, most frigs are in warp before i'm even allowed to start targeting them. some cruisers/hacs are also fast enough for this."
"supporting da op."
"\"homophobia (from greek hom<U+FFFD>s: one and the same; ph<U+FFFD>bos: fear, phobia) is an irrational fear of, aversion to, or discrimination against homosexuality or homosexuals\" quote taken from wiki.i noticed that some entities like alliances have in theirs description homophobic statements. which are insulting to members of glbt community, myself included.and even if this issue was reported to gm`s nothing is done to prevent or punish those homophobic statements or and descriptions. i am using assembly hall as resource to give this issue a more visibility."
"i would give your post aa thumbs down if i could.someone making a statement does not equal discrimination.it has everything to do with the fact that you are overly thin skinned.if you do not like what is being written by people then don't bloody read it and ignore it."
"i'll reinterpret the topic:why is homophobia so discriminated?i am a free man with my own views on homosexuals as dead end of civilization, but every homosexual will claim ccp to ban me for my own thoughts. you (who is homosexual) cry a lot about your own rights and propagands your life style, but you makes all possible to suppress my own rights to propagand the natural sex. where's the truth?"
"that's life chum, especially in a world of computer gaming geeks. go to fanfest. you'll find that the reality of the people behind the keyboards is that they're a nice bunch, generally a lot more friendly and pleasant and intelligent than they appear in game. and those who aren't, look like kids that *everyone* pushed around in the playground.people who get discriminated against in eve: gays, pirates, scammers, carebears, furries, goons, bob (oh no wait), russians... don't take it personal. and if you do find someone (or someone's bio) that is outright offensive then yep, petition away."
"\"heterophobia is a term used to describe irrational fear of, aversion to, or discrimination against heterosexuals.\" quote taken from wiki.i noticed that some entities like alliances have in theirs description heterophobic statements. which are insulting to members of the straight community, myself included.and even if this issue was reported to gm`s nothing is done to prevent or punish those heterophobic statements or and descriptions.i am using assembly hall as resource to give this issue a more visibility."
"you guys are wasting your time talking.just read the damn eula . ccp states its illegal to use anti-gay names.so gaya divines statement is wrong. ccp does not tolerate homophobia.if you believe a gm is not enforcing the eula just write an email to the customer support.fly safe anyways"
"homophobia can be manifested by individuals that may be denying certain tendencies of their own.what was that senator's name that got busted in an airport bathroom?"
"phobias are uncontrolled fears and should always be tolerated. a true phobia is not a choice made by an individual. would you also say we should not tolerate those with a fear of heights or a fear of spiders or a fear of public speaking? if you are opposed to intolerance - say so. if you are opposed to people with phobias - that's silly."
"someone call a whaaambulance?"
"your attempts at political correctness are more offensive than the impropriety of those you complain about."
"if i were to go about life getting upset and ranting about all the things i found offensive the i would be consistantly shouting 24/7.please leave real-world issues at the login screen and enjoy eve. it's not directed at you personally, neither is a corp name \"geek squad\" (or similar) something that i would take offence at. you might call me a geek, but it's only a label so why should i care? and tbh, i don't give two hoots.as i said, leave the rl world and it's crap at the login screen and enjoy eve in whatever way you wish to do so."
"sadly i did something similar. even if i admire gm`s who are ready to share theirs time for benefits of eve community. some of them do this with some discrimination. i do support efforts for greater good, but only efforts for greater good of all and not only majority. players should be aware even if i am not directly insulted by some statements, that this game are also played by kids. which will link eve and rl as one and will think that its ok to insult those who don`t have same values or life style as them. i do believe that homophobia is not natural way of seeing others, but was implemented to mind by influence of social circles...some of them can be close family, others can be more complex but influential.... like games."
"more like why is this thread tolerated.5/10 for effort on the troll, op.this has nothing to do with the csm, though. so no points there."
"qft. we don't need internet white knights curbing freedoms of the community due to the actions of opinions of a few.(thumbs down)"
"you dont have any freedoms when you play this game, fool - only those privileges granted to you by ccp (via the eula that you agree to when you first log on)get it right"
"sometimes i think this topic gets brought up simply so people can vent there negative crap about other people and force others to have to endure it..and it goes both ways..although i don't..just wanna clarify that..hehehehe."
"well captain pompous. you said :\"i am using assembly hall as resource to give this issue a more visibility.\"so let's start there shall we? you're on the wrong board. so before you start calling other people fools, take a deep breath in between your furiously typed diatribes to look where you're posting.also, though you're citing the eula, the terms you're citing are here at the terms of agreement. namly rules 2 and 3. rule 2 which is ignored by almost the entire gaming community. so i won't even touch that one.rule 3 is what you're looking for, as it explicitly states that corps and alliances are not to be named after, or advocate a laundry list of offensive things. i've never even heard of an openly racist, or anti-gay corporation or alliance. if you know of some, why haven't you posted any of them here?thats kind of the key to your argument anyhow, so if you're going to clog up this board with crap like this, you should at least point some fingers like a good whiner.*edited to remove anything that could be considered too offensive for your vomit inducing politically correct sensibilities."
"up"
"no"
"not supported, not in any way, shape or form.this would encourage isk buying."
"let's hope the dev blog comes \"soon.\""
"geez, you guys are a bunch of hypocrites. if you and ccp were to switch shoes all of the sudden, i highly doubt that you would reveal the names of those responsible. why? because if you did reveal them, you would be violating your company promise to its customers. that would make everyone leave you because we, the customers, would no longer trust ccp with information that is supposed to be incredibly secret. if a bunch of ppl could demand transparency on this banning, what is to stop the next group from demanding credit card information from ccp? it shows weakness and loss of integrity. do not kid yourselves. ccp will never reveal it and i hope they never do. for if they did, i, and many others, would quit eve immediately and remove all information that is important to us such as credit cards because we would feel it is safe any longer. get over yourselves. ccp is not gods and neither are you. mistakes were made and we are all human. its has and it will happen again. nothing, i repeat nothing will stop another \"t20 incident\" or \"pos exploit\". there is simply no way to do that. you are asking the impossible. they will try their hardest to avoid another incident but it will happen in some form or some way. it is human nature and it is how life goes. --isaac"
"the dev-blog is still on track. i have faith that it will be out soon"
"this guy is right. names will never be made public"
"thanks for the reply...keep on them if it's not out soon."
"no that's not what people are saying at all. i'm equally tired of reading posts that deliberately misunderstand the request in order to knock it down with a strawman argument, but it doesn't seem to stop it happening.nobody is asking for more missions per se, or the ability to cherrypick, or that if the system changed, that we should automatically make more cash from it. what is frustrating is that the mission system is so random, offering you a series of missions that you can't possibly wish to take, without any thought at all, and can end up leaving you with no missions available from decent agents.as a personal point, i'd argue that if it's already the case that by doing missions in empire, i pretty much screw my chances of doing pirate faction missions in 0.0, i'd at least like to be able to keep my empire standings reasonable without twiddling my thumbs every time an agent says 'hey the gallente have turned up again inside our space, go shoot them, don't worry, somehow it won't start a war'.disappointing that so many posters read 'missions' and then fill in the blanks with their own bile and hatred instead of reading what i thought was quite a balanced post from a csm member."
"first off, i hope this is a joke - but you're a little early for april fools day.i would like to re-iterate, that with many of your posts, they are your personal \"problems\" and personal issues that you have with eve. as always, you attempt to bend the universe around you.there is nothing wrong with losing standing. for example, if you run a lot of gallente missions you'll take negative caldari hits. did you know there is a simple solution to this? yes - simply go and run some caldari missions to increase the standing.a lot of people run missions because they are vs missions, and i think even the most hardcore mission-runners would find it mindnumbingly boring and tiring to just \"haul this here\", \"fetch that\", \"refine 300 units of...\". do you actually find that fulfilling and worthwhile?i have never had an issue with missions or agents. if i do, i simply find another. if you *think* and *adapt* you can keep your standings fairly balanced between empires (but god forbid you'd have to think).i hope the other csm delegates can keep you in check, and actually realise what you are proposing is for nothing more than personal gain packaged up in a little box pretending to \"benefit the community\". stop, just stop!i don't disagree there are improvements to be made to aspects of the game, but these proposals are just totally off-the-wall.if you don't fill your car up with petrol and fail to get to the destination, who is to blame:1. you2. the car3. the car manufacturer4. the petrol stationclearly it's you, the driver. so if you're having \"problems\" with missions then you need to adapt the way you run them, and put some thought in before jumping right in (exmaple: fill up the tank before you set off). speaking of \"jumping right in\" you might also want to consider your posts and your proposals more carefully in future. continued posting of such utter nonsense will only end up being counter-productive to you, and to the csm. you will end up turning into a \"lame duck\".if you really do have this many issues with eve (see minutes, votes, past proposals) then maybe you should consider a game which is more suitable for you. you're here for the eve community, not for yourself - right?you are on the csm to \"serve the people\" - so, let's see some service please ankh. i don't mean self service, try selfless service for the community to which you claim to cherish."
"while changes along these lines would be convient for me, i cannot recommended them without bias."
"nope, with the way it was balanced [all three ideas] they [cruiser hulls] would have to use that midslot if they wanted to obtain near-immunity, otherwise don't attack that close-range battleship solo unless specifically fit for the task. i repeat, the test i was referring to was a module-less stabber with minimal skills. p.s a single tracking computer (30%) makes little difference, when you consider the 400% change post qr. the proposed changes would be more of a 'meeting half way' between qr and pre-qr in terms of hitting ability, but as webs are no longer the equivalent 'hitting the brick wall'. you still have the option of disengaging."
"well i know all that ... the point is, you need to get that close and this means generaly web range/scrambler range. which means lower absolute transversals as most probably both of you will be webed ... this significantly lowers your ability to use the tracking advantage also ... and the closer you get, the less dps you will deal to your target.with growing effective sig, both of you would have the same sig/resolution ratio if using same grade/tier guns, but the blaster ship will have a tracking advantage up close ... this is what the proposal is trying to achieve ..."
"no, the closer you get the more extreme your damage advantage becomes. drop in closer so that your chance to hit is ~40% and his will drop to ~20%, you would be dealing more than twice as much damage as your opponent.if you let him control range you won't win. if he pulls away until you lose damage due to falloff. if he pulls in closer he forces a draw because neither of you can deal sufficient damage to kill the other.however, if you can keep yourself inside of your optimal+1/2falloff, and keep things moving faster than about half of his tracking speed, then you will out damage him. the closer/faster you go the greater the ratio between your damage and his, you just need to keep your damage high enough to break his tank.recap for those how have lost track of this sub-thread: this comparison is between neutron blaster cannon ii and mega pulse laser ii ."
"you're making contradictory points.tracking, under a certain speed threshold is effectively the same. tracking above a certain speed threshold is effectively the same.the current tracking with 60% webs is within the thresholds that means it makes a difference. if it didn't no one would be complaining about missing targets at close range.changing sig(which is the same as changing tracking) will increase the threshold where tracking is effectively the same on the bottom end. this will bring the tracking of pulse lasers and blasters closer together effectively.p.s. use the hyperion, 2 webs== easier to create and reduce transversal."
"hmm tracking formula is fine. the same ppl ,who support this change,would come whine, that the enemy bs easily hits their cruisers/frigs when they try to orbit it.maybe it should be changed similar to missiles. that the target ship sign would mean much more , like bs chance to hit a cruiser with 150m sig, would be maximum 150m/400m regardless of tracking.it is more realistic as it doesnt matter how good your skills with aiming if your weapon's disperion is greater than the target size."
"dear all,i have understood that ccp is not wanting to let alliances to join factional warfare as such due to the obvious dilemma of bigger .0 -space owning alliances to start using fw as their playground. i think i have a solution to this problem.alliances that are part of factional warfare cannot have sov-space in zerosec. their sov. is where their factions sov is.this would effectively bar the big alliances to start coming in and making the **** hit the fan of the whole purpose of fw. however it is possible that this measure is not enough, thus i'm proposing a possible more ruthless way to approach the issue.only those alliances would be possible to be in fw that are formed with corporations that have been part of fw f.ex. 2 months - or based on their total victorypoints - or similar meter. the alliances formed this way would not be sanctioned by concord but the faction they are in - this would limit their possibility to have sovereign zero sec space .also this would be a good way to hinder the possible avalanche of large pirate alliances to infest the fw-gameplay. i realize the latter proposition would make it hard for current heavy rp-related alliances to join factional warfare straight away but i think this would be a good way of approaching the issue without having too much impact on the fw idea. and this would allow those corporations within the factions already to start having the useful alliance interface towards gameplay.best regards,t 2"
"with ccp doing a lot for the 'new player experience', i think one of the best things they could do would be to remove the epic waste of time and hugely boring timesink that we call learning skills.i can't think of a single person that thinks they are in any way 'fun' to train. and everyone tells new players \"you need to train your learning skills now!\" essentially keeping them from training more 'fun' things in their first month or two of game play. i imagine many people have decided \"eh, forget it\" and quit the game over this.so i'd like to propose a removal of the learning skills. if possible, vets should have the skillpoints refunded and allow them to place it wherever they want. if that is to technically complicated, then just remove them.boost everyones attributes by 8-9 points and be done with this terrible timesink of a 'skilltree'."
"kill them with fire. i don't care that i'll lose sp. they are the biggest waste of time and a completely arbitrary timesink that discourages new players. new players should be discouraged by the fact that new eden is a cold, harsh world, not because you have to spend a month essentially training nothing so you can be competitive."
"the decision to train or not train learning skills is up to the individual (i know i didn't max them out first thing, and i still have a some to training to do to make them perfect after 3 years playing). the best real-world analogy would be \"the learning skills are like saving money\". the sooner you start saving, the more the interest compounds over the long term. however, you can't have any fun with the money you are saving. make a decision. leave it alone. leave it a decision for each pilot. not supported."
"i thought it was funnier the way you put it on shc, tarm. ;)"
"if i never see my sp again. so be it."
"so what you're saying is that a pilot fresh to the game should 'save' his money and not have any fun with it, essentially encouraging him to quit because the game is boring?terrible reason, sir."
"reasoning is too weak for this proposal.not supported."
"i hate having to tell new players to just sit on their asses and train learning skills, so yeah, remove them completely and give everyone the attribute increase. i dont care if i loose sp or if it gets refunded (would be nice of course) but it would truly be better for the game if there were no learning skills."
"exactly how is 'learning skills are not fun at all, add nothing to the game and actively discourage new players from staying' weak?"
"so say you're going to an amusement park. you can either enter the theme park now, but you have to walk half as fast as you normally do to the rides and pay twice as much for food. or you can wait outside for 6 hours, and be able to walk normally once you get in and pay the normal price for food.now, are you more likely to:1. go in immediately2. wait outside3. find an amusement park that doesn't arbitrarily punish you for wanting to ride the rides"
"trying using that gray matter in your skull.so you eliminate learning skills..... nothing changes.starting skill points get boosted for the char that gets started. whoopee right?leaving them alone harms no one either.too weak of a proposal. there are more important matters to resolve.not supported.this is the same arguing if there's a point to have rookie ships or not. useless to everyone... cant reprocess... cant sell back.... only get's used when you start the game... rather have just a pod or something or better yet a shuttle.its an argument that goes nowhere real quick because its a waste of everyones bloody time.your just sore because you want more skill points for free or little time.that's the truth of the matter here.if you don't like them... then don't train them... duh!"
"that's not at all what i'm saying. i'm saying it's an individual decsion. i said that i still haven't finished all of my learning skills. i like to balance saving my money with enjoying it, so to speak. those who choose to invest should be rewarded with the gains. those who choose to party should be rewarded with the fun. taking away the decision is not eve."
"look, i've been playing this game for three years now. i got my learning skills out of the way a long time ago and i don't care if they remove them and i never see the sp again. check my character out in game if you don't believe me. this is about the new player experience.learning skills are a horrible waste of time that only discourages people from playing because they arn't training the 'fun' skills that allow them to fly new ships or use new modules.rookie ships serve a purpose because you have to start somewhere. learning skills serve no purpose other than \"you have to train this skill to be competitive, but it doesn't help you in any other way, nor is it fun.\"try again."
"terrible reasoning. every rookie that joins the game is told \"you have to train learning skills or you won't be competetive.\" so everyone does, because no one wants their character to fall behind and everyone wants to advance as fast as possible.but these skills are not fun to train and discourage people from staying with the game."
"your argument is completely based on discouragement.fine.... take it further...how long does it take to train up to an hulk?how about a marauder?how about a black ops ship?a carrier?oops... did i strike a nerve?how about you plug your brain in... before you start spouting off.people leave this game for weeks on end for those skills... learning skills being in... or out... changes nothing.come up with a valid argument.. and you'll get my support.. otherwise go bug someone else."
"obviously not everyone does. i didn't. yes, i heard that advice. i made my own decision. i'm not a sheep. eve is about hard decisions that have real consquences. taking away from that would be bad. i'm sure there are other pilots out there who don't take all of the advice given to them. i highly encourage more people to try thinking for themselves from time to time. :)"
"*facepalm*you don't see the difference between training to be able to fly a ship.. going \"oooh, i can fly x in another 3 days!\" and training a skill.. that lets you train better?if you can't see the difference, you're not worth discussing it with. get out."
"this doesn't take away from the 'hard decisions' of eve. learning skills are just a useless time sink.new players shouldn't quit because of \"i have to train for over a month just to learn to train skills?\"they should quit because \"man, this game is harsh. i just lost my 3b isk faction battleship!!\""
"get rid of them. it's one thing to add in timesink skills for veteran players to open up high-level ships and equipment, but the whole learning skills group is tedious, boring, and scares away new players."
"they don't *have* to train the learning skills first man. newbies shouldn't have 3billion anything ships. eve isn't supposed to be that easy."
"i was obviously using hyperbole to prove my point. don't take the arguement litereally.yes, they don't *have* to train them first.. but with almost everyone telling them they should and telling them how \"you'll fall behind if you don't train this useless timesink of an unfun skill\" most of them do.. or quit.that's the point."
"as an 04 player and thus one who may lose out from this, i still heartily endorse this.for a newbie, having to train to be able to train properly is so ******ed that it drives a great deal of friendly newbies away :/"
"support added! it's a stupid idea, and a real turn-off for newcomers to the game."
"learning skills are boring. but i'd like to see those that spent a lot of sp in learning skills get a refund for them."
"you sir have the worst logic.the point being made, is that new people are forced to train for skills which do nothing apart from making them able to train other skills at the same rate as people already in game. if you don't train them, you fall behind as a newbie. if you do train them you'll be able to train skills quicker later on, but for your first month, you are unable to fly anything other than a burst. it's a lose lose situation.it is completely not the same as training for skills that let you use new guns and ships, because these skills actually lead to an end product rather than an acquisition of attributes, and thus the new players can think \"oh hay, i'll actually be able to fly that cool rifter soon!\".nothing changes for the new players apart from they do not have to get bored out of their wits for the first month. i know personally of friends who left the game because of this ******ed mechanism. they were even told that you don't need to train learning skills for the first month just to try out new ships, but the fact kept coming back to them that eventually they'd have to train what is, for all intents and purposes, a skill designed to waste time.and to those saying \"you just want to gain some sp\". i have no qualms with me ending up the worst for this, by receiving no \"free sp\". i do not care if my skills just magically disappear and get replaced by attributes, because after years of playing this game, the effect is not great in the grand scheme of things. and the effect is certainly alot lower than the positive effect to newbies."
"i agree. eve is already overwhelming enough to new players. training many noobs in the past one of the primary goals of mine was to keep them interested in the game, especially through those first 2-3 months when it can be at times a difficult learning experience. telling them in addition to a steep learning curve, they have to spend 2-3 weeks training essentially nothing doesn't help any.remove these pointless time-sink skills, give everyone an 8-9 point attribute boost, and leave it at that.~signed"
"qft."
"qft, supporting."
"reimburse if practical, but remove them either way. there are no words for how dumb the current system is."
"support for this issue being investigated.perhaps a compromise?:so as not to shaft players who have recently started, change new character starting skills, to lvl4 basics, lvl1 advanced learnings, at the cost of reducing the amount of lvl4 and lvl5 skills that new chars start with. possibly by a greater amount than you give the learnings.e.g. 800k sp is what new chars start with.6 basic learnings @ lvl4 = 6x 45,255 sp = 271530sp5 adv learnings @ lvl1 = 5x 750 = 3750sptotal in learnings = 275280sp.even if starter total was reduced to 700k or 600k, i think there would be plenty left for enough skills to have fun with.this should allow new chars to advance their skills reasonably quickly, so as to be able to do more fun stuff.e.g. as is, what happens with new players.\"help, my capacitor empties too quickly in missions\"\"train energy systems operation to help that\"now, with low attributes, energy systems operation 1 takes nearly 20 minutes say, to learn.with higher attributes, it only takes 10, or less.so, a new player can then get back into their mission and play sooner, rather than wait.now, you can make the choice to invest more into the learning skills, but it's not such a stark choice.edit: eve has plenty of long waits in the higher gameplay, is it too much to ask that you don't expose new players to the waiting game before you show them the fun stuff?"
"thats not logic. by your \"logic\" if you train learning skills you're at least as fast as everyone else in the game. not factoring in all the people who didn't train them right away, or who have implants. or who have different character builds.this whole \"debate\" is nonsense. no one is forced to train them. there are more important things to worry about. no support."
"..don't be an idiot.this is completely different to extended training times for advanced ships..by the time you are training for capital ships and the like, the skills for which take weeks on end, you have (ussually) years of experience, and so can fly numerous other ships while you wait, you also know the fun of eve as you have played it and enjoyed it for a while.when you are wasting time on your learning skills you are just starting out and are training them because you have to in order to keep up with your friends and others a few months down the line..but, as you are just starting out you cant really fly or do anything at all.. so unlike these prospective cap ship pilots, you soend your weeks training doing nothing, and wondering why you joined a game which seems openly hostile for new players.having only played a few mmos in my time, eve is by far the most hostile to new players of any.. obviously with the game being so complex, ccp cant change the rediculous user interface..but things like learning skills.. which realistically, are a requirement, mean that new players really dont have a good time as they are stuck unable to do anything..new players are important, especially to ccp (who would be blind not to do something about this).. if they want new money, and fresh new population for new eden, they need to get their act together and make the game easier to get into.. and the removal of learning skills with boosted attributes is a good start.the game doesnt need to be easier as a whole.. just a little bit quicker to start, at the end of my 2 week trial my character still couldnt fly anything other than frigates with minimal modules as i was waiting for \"learning v\" if my friends hadn't managed to convince me i'd be just another player to have never fattened ccp's wallet and left for something stupider (but more welcoming to new players) like wow.supported."
"...more important things to worry about?you're saying that hitting \"delete\" on the learning section for ccp, and popping everyone's attributes up by the appropriate amount would take a huuuuge amount of ccps valuable time?..and yeah, you're not \"forced\" to train learning.. in the same way you're not \"forced\" technically to train for better ships and modules.. you can fly a rookie ship for years.. but you need better stuff to be good enough to have fun..you need the learning skills to competitive and able to have fun.."
"the true problem seems to be the manic group-think that everyone seems to thrust on new players. it's like a chant: \"you must train learning first. you must train learning first. you must train learning first\"perhaps we should slow down and actually give the newbies a real answer and educate them about the learning skills. \"if you choose to invest training time in the learning skills, you will reap the benefits of improved training speed in the long-run. if you choose to invest time in the \"practical skills\" first, you will build more wealth initially and have more fun up front. you do have the option to go back and forth: train a litle learning, train something funit's a decision, it has consequences, welcome to the galaxy.\""
"or we could remove a pointless timesink of a skill and not have to worry about it. \o/everyone pretty much *has* to do the learning skills. you can't change the culture of \"you have to do the learning skills or you won't train as fast\" without removing them from the game. everyone likes to get the most possible out of their characters as fast as possible, hence learning skills are pretty much a requirement, not a 'decision with consequences'.how is it going to hurt you to remove these skills, exactly?because you suffered through training them you think everyone should?"
"i support this.just boost everyone's base stats by 10 points each (the same as 5/5 training skills), and distribute the 'lost' skillpoints amongst the lowest trained skills remaining**there might be some people who have trained their skills to lvl5 and don't have any skills to increase. in that case, either give them isk, or give them some random-but-helpful skill instead."
"it's not that it would hurt me. however this turns out i'll be hurt or benefit exactly as much as everyone else. i just disagree with the premise behind this proposal. i don't think it's a good idea. i apparenently see a lot more choice in the when-and-how people train skills than you do. i see the choice of if/when/how fast people choose to train these skills as important decisions a person makes in the development of their characters. as i've said, i still have a couple of the level 2 learning skills that i still need to get around to finishing off some day. i chose to go back and forth between learning and other skills many times over the years. as a result, i'm sure i have less total skill points than i would have had if i'd trained all learning first. i enjoyed or put more priority different skills at different times. i'm pretty happy with the training decisions; they worked for me. others choose different routes. to use a different real-world analogy: some people go to college right after high school. some people go back to school late in life after making some money in the business world. some people pursue a on and off education of technical courses and certifications. some people go right to work and never look for more education. i think the learning skills should be seen for what they are - a useful set of skills and one more option for character development."
"you guys make it seem like someone is holding a gun to your head and forcing you to train learning skills as soon as you log on the first time...and if your advice to new players are that they should train learning skills first, then you're also the ones holding the gun. *rolls eyes*if a new player asks me for advice on skill progression, i advice them to do what i did (and what pilot santiago fahahrii said before me):yes, learning skills are nice to have, however train skills so you can fly a fun ship with decent modules first, then train some learning skills as you feel like it. they are nice to have, but they are also not mandatory.and about the proposal?in some ways it feels nice to not have a cookie cutter character, that it's nice to have some individuality even in how fast you train your skills. in the end it doesn't really matter unless you're a munchkin."
"they're not mandatory, but a lot of people feel like they are because they don't want to feel 'left behind'.there would still be plenty of character individuality in how you distribute your starting sp's and what implants you decide to plug in. personally, i've been flying with +3's almost my entire career because they are a pirate set. i could train faster by plugging in +5's, but the pirate set gives other nice bonus's that i prefer.that is a decision with consequences. learning skills are not. they're simply a 'must-train' skill that sucks the fun out of new players first couple of months.i'll say it again. you can't change the culture of \"you need the learning skills\" advice-giving without removing them from the game."
"i bolded the parts you need to re-read. you are using rhetoric to dance around the central issue. learning skills provide a cheap means of increasing attributes over the top of base stats and implants which costs sometimes hundreds of millions.it's a choice. it's a choice. it's a choice.how many times must you read that before you understand it? it's not a \"must have\" you can get along just fine without ever training them. you're trying to paint it as something you must do because other people pressure new players into it. it's not, and never has been. you can't make your opinions facts by yelling them over and over again. it it's your opinion that these skills must be trained in the beginning. not a fact."
"and it's the opinion of a lot of other people, too. that is my entire point. are you not even listening or do you want to try some more poor logic on me?new players feel like they *have* to train these skills to stay competitive. the learning skill tree is boring to train, but most people feel like they need to train these skills early on or they will fall behind. there is no point to these skills except 'learning to learn'.it's a timesink and unnecessary and drives new players away."
"hardly the first time this has come up. but definitely supported. learning skills = noob tax. they are effectively mandatory in order to compete. i'd much rather see them combined with other skills. eg take something like navigation (1). make it a (2) and give it a +1 perception per level as well. something that people do train, but that actually provides some benefit."
"17 supports on this thread. 250,000 subscribers. i see nothing unnecessary about a cheap alternative to implants, that is still optional.i'll keep saying it until you get it. it is a choice, just because certain people are being made to \"feel\" as though they have to learn these skills. they do not have to, are not forced to, and have a choice. if it drives them away, you can blame that on the player base aggressively telling them to train learning skills, not the skills themselves. implants - expensive as sin but instantly implement attribute boost.learning skill - cheap as sin, but take increasing amounts of time to boost attributes.i think thats a reasonable duo we have going. i have not yet seen a significant reason to have the skill books removed. if they were forced on new players in any tangible way, or if not training them was a significant detriment to anyone i would support it. as you do not, i do not support. keep yelling, i'll keep rebutting. repeating opinions do not make them facts. the fact is it's optional, and you can't dance around that forever."
"i support it, only if those who trained the advanced learning skills to 4 and 5 were justly compensated, while adv 3 and below were given the setback.also warn people of when this implementation will happen so any new pilots who join wont waste time on those skills"
"oh look, more terrible logic. let me address this point by point.first off, quoting subscriber numbers means nothing, especially when a huge portion of the subscribers don't visit this forum. and a huge portion of those that do are currently enthralled by the bob/goons drama.exspense has nothing to do with this arguement either. and i laugh at you thinking implants are pricey. implants used to cost a lot, back in the day. these days, pretty much anyone who tries even a little bit can run around in a set of +4's.yes, i know it's a 'choice'. i have never disputed the fact that it is a 'choice'. what i am disputing is the necessity of such a choice. the learning skills do nothing for a character except make them train (or 'level up', in other mmo vernacular) faster. everyone wants to level up faster. newbies feel it is necessary to train these skills, but they are not fun in any way.laughable. you can have a set of +4's very cheaply these days. price still has nothing to do with this, anyways.see above. price, nothing to do with this arguement, etc.wait, by your logic, training 50% slower than everyone else if you don't train these skills isn't a detriment?? then i have no idea what is, by your definition of the word.you keep repeating this like it's some sort of mantra against having to make a rational arguement.there's absolutely no reason to have these skills in game. they don't provide a real 'choice' with actual consequences and benefits. just \"train these skills or you will train slower than everyone else, therefor your character is worse.\""
"i have yet to see a compelling reason for the skill books to stay. discourage new players to log in is not one."
"that was a nice try.you're talking about noobs. well noobs don't have the 500 million isk to \"trot\" around with buying up +4s. so throw that crap out the window. it's not laughable at all.again - not. everyone. has to train these skills, and not everyone does. making blanket statements like \"if you don't train these you skill up 50% slower than everyone else\" is laughable as you put it. since you have no fraking clue what everyone trains. you're using rhetoric again to try to skirt the fact that it's an viable option, but still only an option.the reason for having them - as i stated and you ignored, is to have another option outside of implants that costs less isk wise, but more time wise.thats breaking it down for you barney style, if you can't figure out the dichotomy between learning skills and implants, you probably shouldn't be on here arguing about rational arguments at all.also, it's not a mantra. it's a promise. i can keep posting here every time i see it on the main page if you like. i will continue to stress that it's a choice, since you're only argument against it seems to be that it's being forced on everyone, or that it's not necessary. well neither of implants. so the only way i support the upset of the current system is to throw out both implants, and learning skills, since neither is more absurd than the other.yeah, theres a swiftian turn for you. it's a choice. not a bad one either, but as long as it's not forced on anyone, i think it deserves to stay."
"then you didn't read/understand my post. they form a dichotomy with implants that shouldn't be tampered with unless scrapping all of it. implants, learning skills, anything that boosts skills. more options > less options."
"you're not even worth argueing with any more, efrim. i'll just keep collecting support itt. thanks!"
"in the end, they will still have to train the learning skills. they are a useless time sink.so they either get their time sink done first, or get it done later.it sucks, its lame, its bad game design, it does not encourage people to play the game."
"quoting for truth and supporting this thread since it was said it needs pylons."
"good luck with that. if you can not work through my arguments, it proves you're relying on hollow rhetoric. it also shows how well you'd be able to take on counter-points from ccp, who would probablyagree with me. the skills are not useless, they provide an alternative way to increase attributes. you'd rather scrap that and make the only way implants, meaning, the only way to increase attributes is to grind for isk.so unless you support them both being scrapped,i disagree with you're flawed argument.they are useful, they are a cheap option, and they aren't forced on anyone.more options are better than fewer options."
"isn't this the problem here? you are playing the game, and encounter a problem, the solution to the problem involves waiting for a skill. no big deal, but without learning skills, the solution takes quite a bit longer to arrive. this is most important in the first few hours of gameplay, isn't it? having people twiddle their thumbs while waiting is not attractive.shirley's suggestion sounds ok, i think. basics to lvl4, adv to lvl1, for new characters, reduce some other skills to compensate. still have the option to invest in long term, but in the short term, skills will be a bit quicker, which means more people are likely to get hooked in the trial 2 weeks, no?"
"supporting this.also efrim, your argument makes no sense at all.edit: re-read your posts efrim \"i didn't train them so i can train skills slower to be different\". yeah. smart move."
"first of all, i never said that, i don't know who you're quoting. i did train the learning skills, with every character i've started. i enjoyed that it chopped off training time for other skills.second of all. if you don't have the mental capacity to understand my argument, thats not my fault. if you do, please point out an inconsistency, and you may change my mind."
"no he won't. and no one else will be able to, either. because you're not looking at it from the right perspective. if you don't have the mental capacity to understand that, that's not my fault. (see what i did there?)"
"remove learning skills... no base attribute bonus beyond implants... \"no\" +10 in place of learning skills... reallocate learning skill sp to other skills, no more discussion on learning skills."
"yeah, i see what you did there. it's not a matter of perspective. it's pretty cut and dry. you offer no new alternatives while removing an option thats been in the game for a long time.so you're removing options without providing any viable alternatives, and i'm pretty sure that perspective has nothing to do with that.see what i did there?"
"learning skills just discourage people, give everyone lvl 4 basics and lvl 2-3 advanced learning skills for free. when the people who stand to lose out are supporting an idea, its the only real choice."
"because what this game needs more of is terrible options that arn't really options. :colbert:"
"i was quoting you. the direct quote is \"in some ways it feels nice to not have a cookie cutter character, that it's nice to have some individuality even in how fast you train your skills.\"i just translated it."
"i love paying for a game then being put on hold for two months to get on with it in a productive manner.learning skills are just a gimp to new players. i want to be able to play to the best of my ability right from the get go, and no i don't mean i wish i started with level v's across the board. this is just a time sink everyone has to go through. christ, anyone that chooses not to go through this rigmarole is just going to feel cheated later on in the game.tldr: get rid of learning skills."
"please put a checkmark in the \"give support\" box when you post. more support = more attention. :)"
"definitely remove them, give everyone +10 by default, and refund all existing sp that people have trained."
"refund, remove, +10 across the board it."
"get rid of them, +9 or +10. gogo."
"scrap all learning skills, boost all character attributes, allow player to redistribute skill points invested through some fancy web interface."
"since they are implementing the skill queue come the patch in march, they can integrate redistributing sp on a modified queue system.possibly?edited to show support."
"apologies to fans of being punched in the face."
"i'm definitely not an alt of the previous poster."
"those are my shoes. give them back. they don't even fit.. you are a dog."
"yes."
"awox approves this product and/or service."
"so do i!"
"ching chong wing wong eve gold for sale 300g=$1"
"supportan."
"moar support.nanonanonano."
"no thanks."
"dissenting opinion checking in."
"offsetting pod. nononono."
"if this gentleman approves, so do i."
"adding support for this idea!"
"but i did. i just dont *agree* with you.anything that acts as a deterrent for new players to continue playing is bad, even if it means more options."
"this tbh..this game has huuuuuge number of customisable options and huuuge scopelearning isnt an option everyone has to do it at the expenense of time on other skills.learning is a very good example of an extra dynamic added to the game which simply doesnt need to be there, it serves no purpose as everyone trains learning ot the same level anyway, the only part which is optional is implants as some people choose not to expend the money and take the podding risk...no need for learning to stay in the game, i would have alot of respect for ccp if they were to trim some fat off the game.can you really say, without the complete non-choice that is learning, the game would be worse off?and wouldn't have enough choices and scope?"
"so the steep learning curve, current lack of an avatar, excel in space interface, and lack of any grind-for-skill system are all bad things? they drive away plenty of new players.if we weed out everything that might deter new players, we'd just get another generic mmo. i'm sorry, but part of what makes this game unique is the number of options. you people supporting do not seem to really think of the implications of removing the current learning skills and just giving everyone +10 points across the board...this would leave only one way to increase attributes. implants. basically, if you grind for money, you train skills faster, otherwise, you're screwed. so my proposal is pretty simple. if you're going to be so brash as to tear this down. tear the entire system down, remove implants as well.oh wait, then you lose a major isk sink and the economy starts falling apart. stupid logic."
"remove the face."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i'm very unhappy on how buggy the stupid bio is,it randomly sets colors for the entier text!it randomly picks bold, italic or underline for the entier text.it sets the text size to 18 as if default.i belive the bio is made in html styleif my belifes are correct, then adding bbc code would be easyperhaps make a toggle for it,bbc on | bbc offthat way, the more experinced forum people can make more cool bio'sturning on reveals the tags and disables the formattingsetting text size to 12, or what ever the player wish for default text sizealso make a save button so you can save what you have changed becurse it rarely save what you have done with the bio.basicly, the auto save feature is the worst ever!make it manually, or keep the automatic, but make the manually save button...oh and befor i forget, enable the tab function...those wide spacesbut to make them perhaps you could use the text: [tab] as bbc code-teaqu curtis wolkan - a happy eve player - insanity cultist(sorry about the grammar, my english are not the best ever seen ^^)"
"the current bio is a joke. the length is pathetic(which they blame on exploit protection, so it won't change, but i'm still frustrated), the formatting, like the formatting of all text in eve, is embarrassing, and they discard excess text instead of warning you that you're typing into a black hole. something ought to be done with it."
"btw, there is no jump bridges in low sec. put in a top regional buy order for trit for 90 days and then try to pick it up in a jump freighter? youll go mad!"
"kudos for this!that would also be interessting for all other chan-windows, to have an overview how many corp-members, ally-members, ally-friends etc. are in.."
"big things go boom. little things with lots of ammo also go boom. aren't the explosions satisfying enough? i'd rather not have a bunch of live...um...bombs flying around me :>"
"even nuclear ones are kinda boring in space(just a flash that you'd literally miss if you blinked and a few panels going blinky red if it wasn't close enough to kill you)."
"nothis would be tricky for frigate duels as they end with low hp generaly for the victor ..."
"why not? may be destroyed ship will make an explosion with radius equal double of its signature and 'explosion radius' (as bombs has) equal to its own signature, and damage of explosion equal to its structure hps?this will make a little damage from a little ships and will damage close targets only."
"yea just think a titan explodes wow all the ships will be dead might as well selfdestruct instaid of dd"
"i support this idea for one reason which nobody seems to have pointed out. people are always complaining about the blob, this would discourage that by forcing people to space out. after all, nobody will want to get in real close unless they're built to damage and tank the resulting explosion.and i don't see where the \"lag\" comes in. i mean, do we not already have aoe weapons? it's just a matter for one large aoe to trigger when the ship is destroyed."
"if this was to be done right, which seems unlikely, we could just compute the relative speed of parts dispersing into space. any piece of debris travelling at velocity x that intersects the trajectory of a moving body travelling at speed y, is enough to cause a lasting impression.mass times velocity will take out just about any ship in the inventory.not practical. on the one hand debris from ships would count towards damage, but bouncing off of asteroids as the mining ship flies to zero or hitting a warp gate or even a can would not count. it's a gigantic headache that we can do without.plus it would be impossible for mining vessels to find a fitting that would help them survive impact damage and still be useful as a mining vessel.i appreciate the imagination and the creative thinking, but i'll have to pass on this one.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"if someone did hack that bob toon to disband the alliance, should ccp reverse what was done and give bob their sov and alliance back?"
"gaaaahhhhh!!!wrong thread, cant wait for forums overhauldelete this please."
"i highly disagree. other csm members post with their characters on non-csm topics as well, and this does not detract from their duties. also, the post you provided the url for... might i point out the title of the post? \"sad panda foom has a broken epeen!\"if this misled you to believing there was csm relevent content (in caod nontheless), then i think there are much bigger issues at stake here than isslers posting ability.obviously, you are trolling to gather more negative attention for issler. the simple fact that you're an alt in happy joymaker corp, founded by happy joymaker, is proof that you too are trying to recover some of your lost epeen. i find it very unfortunate that she is being targetted, along with her alliance (which according to foom, they had no problem with. it's just her right? that's why the wardec is on the alliance?). however, this is eve, and i don't know about everyone else, but it would be boring without this level of gameplay, politics, and (occassionally) forum whoring.i wish you the best of luck in recovering your epeen. i'd like to remind you that your (erm... happy joymakers, since you're totally not his alt) death was in vain. i would also like to point out that the largest thing detracting from the csm is this post getting in the way of the other much more relevent topics.\"shame happy didn<U+FFFD>t get her pod\" - because podkills were reimbursed?"
"this guy summed it up well."
"i support this product and/or service."
"ridiculous proposal. this person was elected to the csm in a fair and democratic vote and retains the position until the end of the term. posting rubbish on caod is not in and of itself a eula violation and shouldn't enter into it."
"oh, i almost forgot...0/10 troll"
"mcskanky, dude, chill out.issler is doing just what we want, m'kay. she cannot help it. it is her nature. she is making a big enough arse out of herself with her lame posts. any sort of a slap on the wrist from the csm wouldn't do anything at all. csm is just an advisory group to get player feedback at ccp, and the folks at ccp are (i would assume) wise and knowledgable enough to take any advise given to them in the appropriate context.issler will continue to make lame posts, and will hire some mercs that we can eat up for the fun of it while we get ready for w-space and the interesting times ahead with that. no biggie, and quite fun actually. oh, and dude, if your going to try to flame, at least do it with an npc corp alt, or your main in the goons. goons are supposed to be good at flaming after all."
"so a few general comments. when i decided to volunteer to participate in the csm (and was surprised by being elected) i did it to represent a part of the player population i hadn't seen represented before. (the semi-casual but committed industrialist that may or may not be in a player corporation and likely lives in empire-ish) i think i am doing a reasonable job doing that.i never agreed as part of being a csm member to quit enjoying eve the way i always have. in fact what i personally decided to do was increase my involvement. as for some of the claims that i whine about war decs i think history and my actions show that simply isn't true. as a csm i have never suggested or tried to eliminate that element of eve. my only issue with the goon war that recently ended between beep and the goons was that it seemed initially to be an attempt to effect the csm process. despite that complaint beep did what they could to participate in that war and in the end we are better for it.as to offering to hire mercs in the beep/foom war i did it as being officially a \"carebrar\" corp this is what carebear corps generally do. in this case we are also going to fight and i expect fight well. the merc offer was also because i know a lot of folks had issues with foom and/or bruce (far more than have ever had issues with tada o or beep) and that some of those folks might like to have a reason to join the fun.so that may be a bit of a ramble but the key points are. -being part of the csm i think i do the most good participating in as much of eve as there is to enjoy, and for some that has a forum component.- nothing i do in the csm has anything directly to do with my aliance or any organizations/individuals we encounter good or bad. -i'm not sure how i could use being in the csm to any advantage as mostly it make me and my associations targets.-finally i want csm members actively involved in eve when they are serving. that is the best way for them to understand the issues facing the players.and i'll close with this. you have to wonder about foom's leadership. the issues between myself and bruce were over early in their syndicate days and such a small footnote in the rise and epic failure of the alliance. in the end we left more resources in bruce than we ever took and have made it a point to go our own way since. how they could think we (or if you believe some of thier posts me) were worthy of so much effort is simply a mystery. i'd say if the gripe is about me in the csm then here is an idea, run a candidate and participate! freed could run on the bitter players with long memories platform. i know he'd get at least 4 or 5 votes based on the forum posts!issler"
"and yet, we have a goonswarm csm proudly admitting he and his corp were behind the metagaming hack that dissolved bob.nice one. you idots will just pull the wool over your eyes until the game is ruined. should rename yourselves gfngood fornothing"
"changes to tracking formula on the agenda please.i don't think i'll be doing the mission topic, either it'll have to be split up into several or it'll wait till march 10 so i can analyze the epic mission arc game mechanics and integrate them into my proposal, i think the quality of the issue is better served by delaying it for that last month."
"how is it that the dissolution of bob is only a day or so old and already other alliances have sov in those territories? i thought that if a corp changed alliances, it took 7 days for sov to take effect. have these corps been able to somehow circumvent that rule?show me as \"confused\""
"shameless bump"
"show your support, encourage the csm to vote on this!"
"i'd rather go with something like this:tempest: 5% rof bonus per level 10% falloff bonus add drones or something to compensate for dps lossmaelstrom:give it an apoc like treatment:+ x% shields as base stat (and not as per bs level)5% rof bonus per level (or damage)7.5% tracking (or optimal) per levelnow you have tempest as ac boat, and mael as a proper sniper.the way you suggest it you'll have tempest as a shot range sniper with good tracking and mael as a long range sniper, that couldn't track a mwd'ing titan, while both would still perform nicely as ac boats."
"that would work except the additional :\"+ x% shields as base stat (and not as per bs level)\" this should not happen or give my rokh a built in resist bonus and change resist bonus to another optimal bonus^^ or just a flat out 30% cap increase like for the apoc"
"i'm not sure these changes are the right way to go, mission running with a maelstrom means a boost bonus is fine. keeps it different and will not be a problem if one of the other minnie ships can be used when its not apropriate.tempest needs something. people don't bring bs to a gang for a slot of unbonused ewar, 6 lows and less armour than a raven is not a good start. by all means keep it different to othe bs but make it good at something.for all those people who keep saying the tempest is fine if you know how to fly it i say.... the probe is the best fleet ship in the game you just need to know how to use it."
"supported"
"it certainly is, its an amazing cyno ship...."
"sure."
"drones can has lovin?"
"don't let the dream die!"
"jinx does not suggest that ccp must do something, he just does not like that important issues are not even properly commented on by ccp.if they say no, they have to come up with a very good explanation. and this is one of the most popular issues, not a fotm nerf. otherwise we will ask again and again."
"i think it should take more than one person in a high role to completely screw over years of work of over 3000 people. corptheft and so on is fine imo, the problem is that such a major decision as disbanding an alliance and permenately losing sov takes only one guy deciding to screw everyone over.bob is dead. fine, whatever. but fix this so that it can't happen again. can you imagine the goon whines if one of their leaders decided, \"**** it, i am disbanding goonsawrm, neener neener\"? this is only being hailed because everyone hated bob and it was done with a spy."
"uh goon wouldnt care... they'd just shoot each other like they're want to do anyways.nothing wrong with this mechanic.. a single controlling ceo of a real corporation can drive it into the ground just as easily.. corporations in and of themselves can maintain around 1300 people depending on the ceo's skills.. should the ceo have to get co-approval from his directors before booting people willy nilly? i think not."
"in most cases this button would usually be the \"i win you lose\" button...or better yet potential for blackmail. /signed"
"the reason bob disbanded, ceo was stupid enough to let it happen"
"thisalliances are fine how it is. adds to the risk. part of the game."
"the whole purpose of this thread is for people to discuss falty alliance/corp game mechanics and hopefully respond with suggestive ideas of their own. the majority of the posts on this thread are constructive. -great! however, if you're going to state why not, then please post your reasons. hopefully ccp can sort out the logical from the illogical by the time their grand expansion comes out in march. for corps to leave an alliance, they should be able to whenever they please. however, if a corp is being kicked, then a majority vote should be cast. i think this would be the so called \"tripwire.\" the only deviance that should be accepted is to ask yourself the question, \"what if this thing with b0b happened to my alliance? how hard would i be screwed?\" i know my original proposition needs some more hamsters spinning the wheel of thought, but hopefully more can contribute and this formulate into something definitive for ccp to implement or thoroughly hashed out so that game corp/alliance mechanics remain the same."
"to those who think the current mechanic is fine as is:why do you think it is fine as is? what in your world of fair play suggests to you that a single person can undo an alliance *instantly*? how does that make sense to you on any level? no \"bob had it coming\" stuff...this is not about that. it could happen to you just as easily. why would you be ok with that? how are you comfortable knowing that some few in your alliance with appropriate roles can pull the plug on all you and hundreds or thousands of others have done and worked for overnight?espionage is fine. corp theft is fine. but one person, for whatever reason (and there could be many), flipping 3,000 people in minutes is hardly good game design. i am just not seeing it so please explain how this is a good game mechanic. how if you were designing a game you'd make sure such a mechanic existed because it made the game better somehow."
"a ceo with a corp of 1300 could do exactly the same thing... an alliance is structured exactly like a corporation just a tier above it. as for one man destroying an entire alliance from the inside and how its fair? it isnt... and thats the point, its not fair, its not supposed to be fair, if you want fair play hello kitty online. i dont remember at any point in time where ccp said this game was fair. if this game was fair, it wouldn't be fun. this is far from the worst thing ever pulled, sure it was massive.. but definitely not the worst thats ever been done in the history of eve.if it happened to my alliance.. then thats life or should i say, thats how the game is... you accepted that that is how the game is when you agreed to the eula and paid your monthly fee, and if it happens to you, you either strive on, or you emoragequit to the tune of \"can i have your stuff\"."
"no need for a lecture on eve being a rough-and-tumble place. one of the reasons i play it too and i am cool with that.as for me being \"emoragequit\" please point out where i said or implied any such thing. if not then stuff that crap.i am not nor have ever been, on any character i run, a member of bob or goon. i noted above i have no personal stake in this one way or the other. i have lost literally nothing over this. if a dev wants to come by and tell you i have never been in bob or goon ever they have my blessing. i am arguing purely from a sense that this is a bogus mechanic. you have not made a case for it being a good mechanic at all. saying eve is a tough place is not an argument for it. maybe someone is playing football and pulls out a gun and shoots the other team to death. saying football is a rough game does not make that ok.i am all for the dark side of eve. but there has to be balance in games and that much unchecked power in the hands of a single person is too much. it makes the game not fun for all of eve since we now all have to wonder if it might happen to any of us on the whim of one person.and note this is more than your case of being a ceo of a big corp. the alliance holds sovereignty and along with that comes a whole raft of other stuff. further...an alliance is a group of corps. it is one thing for you to screw over your own people. it is another for you to take other corps down with you on a whim. want to take other corps down fine. great even...have at it. but you should have to work for it and not make it a matter of 10 minutes of work."
"i didnt say you were emoragequitting, just said those are the two options. if i havent given a reason for why its a good mechanic, in that same stance you havent given a reason for why its a bad mechanic... and if you consider what you listed as reasons for a bad mechanic then those in the same breath can be used as reasons for why its a good mechanic. one man with the power to screw over alot of people... puts alot of stuff in perspective doesnt it? as for your comment on the whim of one person... that really is what eve boils down to.. i could be suicide ganked on the whim of another player... wardecced, decieved, scammed etc.. all at the whim of one person... it doesnt change as you go up or down the ladder... 1 person always has the power to destroy the many in one form or another.. its a mechanic of persistence, applicable to many situations, not just one. i think its a bit exciting to know that someone could go ballistic in my alliance and screw everyone over... thats why i keep my stuff in npc stations"
"i never knew that an alliance could just be disbanded like that. i'm surprised that the capability to disband an alliance can lie with one person. seems to me that an alliance shouldn't be disbanded unless all of the member corporations leave, much like closing a corporation. it is active until it is empty."
"stupidity > game mechanics.don't give people roles they do not need."
"/me thumbs downyou reap what you sow.if your not smart enough to make sure your alliance is strong healthy and happy... don't expect it to last.countries have fallen over night.... no one said the member states would be left alone now did they?what you propose would change nothing... just delay the inevitable.no support.... works as intended.it's just a corporate sabotage on a macro-scale.... you pick a stupid ceo... you get a stupid event. same goes for directors and what not.and sorry to say... this screams bias towards what took place... stop crying over it here...we got better things to do.... if anything its disrupted the status quo and now things are getting a bit exciting in 0.0.why the hell not... i welcome the change... course i would have prefered a slightly different outcome.. but oh well."
"look...this is a game. as a game it is supposed to have sensible and fair rules. not \"fair\" in that no one can ever get you (one way or another) but \"fair\" in that you have the ability to protect yourself, to turn the tables and so on.imagine the world cup/superbowl is taking place and the team captain on one team, ****ed off because the coach chewed him out, forfeits the game. his choice...not a damn thing anyone else can do about it, take your ball and go home. you'd be ok with that? you think that makes sense somehow?this is an \"alliance\". you simply must consider the scale and scope of what that means. it is not emptying out one corp hangar of all their ships. it is not turning off the cyno jammer to one system. it is not ganking one ship. you are affecting literally thousands of people in a profound manner because one person decides it is a good idea.it is not game balance when you have no recourse, no protection. it wouldn't be if it was just you and me and it especially isn't when it is thousands who get the rug yanked out from under them and not a damn thing to be done about it."
"love this thread so much"
"it would certainly make a lot of sense to have those numbers near equal!"
"my alliance i guess could fit the bill of what this person is sniveling about. membership in celes means you voluntarily agree to be racist against everything, sexist, vulgar, anti or pro gay.we require our members to engage in the most profound forms of sexual harassment, cuss like a hillbilly, and generally be as politically incorrect as possible.why? because this is a game first and foremost, where we go to act out and have a good time. secondly, because tolerance is a lie. in california for example, you are actively encouraged to be gay, do drugs, prostitute yourself, and all manner of things, in the name of tolerance, but if you smoke cigs, you are a bloody outcast. so yeah. i think i have made my point. feel free to report us though if you like."
"we deny gays rights in vawhy?for starters its a disgusting and unhealthy lifestyle.don't take my word for it, go look at the health statistics for yourself.i don't believe tolerance is a virtue, so you'll have to tolerate my intolerance."
"it's like religion. we see all these christian advertisements on tv and on bilboards...yet it's practically shunned to do anything like that pointing out that there is no god..."
"i seem to remember there being slaves in this game too. if you want happy happy land, then you won't have to wait long for hello kitty online."
"you just officially made me feel stupid for forgetting the slaves, drugs, and prostitution which is rampant in the gallente federation.xd"
"yup. happens on a semi-regular basis here.annoying? yeah. unless someone is persistent and being really obnoxious about it, not worth getting riled up over. everyone gets the occasional comment thrown their way.if you do see something that you can't ignore and the gms don't seem to care, then you may want to consider sending that person an evemail. some - not all, but some - are reasonable and will remove the content on their own volition. if they do, make sure to thank them."
"its the internet, where everybody can act like *******s and don't care about collateral. they are 'untouchable'"
"this political correctness bs has got to stop, i am so sick and tired of this crap.i have the freedom of speech, you have the freedom not to listen!you don't have the freedom to tell me what i can and can't say.i don't have a problem with anyone's way of life, unless it breaks the law, or directly causes problems for mine.all these political correctness advocates have to much power, way more than they ever should have been given, and it's destroying this country.you don't have the right to tell me what or what not to say, or how to live my life, that's my choice, you don't like it, to freakin bad!live and let live!it's a game, you don't like what you see/read, then turn it off!sit down, shut up, and hold on! fly safe"
"this thread is pretty gay."
"a step up from the hulk should honestly not yeild any more. the problem is not the yield amount, but mining as a whole. a step up from hulk would be larger cargohold and possibly a tanking bonus. but no more yeild tyvm."
"no. buy implants.play the game.there is enough isk drainshow can you enjoy a game if you don't even know how to play it. nope it will be unfair to all players as you gametime will determine you character progression. you dont need a character marked if the change is made, you need an isk market oops!!!rich in rl - uber in eve, bad for gameplay m'kay."
"eh...no."
"im gonna say what 99% of eve will saywow------>"
"very against idea... so if u are the head of an alliance like goons and aaa u are guarenteed uber toons that u can turn around and sell? or isk sellers all of a sudden have more customers!too abusive..."
"worst idea ever! xdno wait, isn't the worst one..."
"this is a super idea ,thats why there is only 3 supports for this and 2 are alts :)oh and everything should cost 1 isk like in sisi and you start with all lvl5 skillz. that would be awesome..."
"armaggedon day was fun thou ;-p"
"i never really do this...but i can't hold myself in this case, you'll have to excuse me.you freaking r*tard. the heck were you thinking with this? i've never in my entire time in eve heard something so stupid as this. it would only cause the game to turn into one massive isk-grinding fest and people would stop doing anything but grinding isk in order to become better faster. sheesh."
"||unsupported||i only had to briefly scim over to know i would never support this. it doesn't matter how costly it is, how much of a currency sink it is, it doesn't matter if you have to complete a 100 hour mission to unlock or anything else to make it difficult or content rich.this is 100% against what eve has been from the beginning. we play one of the few games where patience and determination are rewarded, this will break that entirely. the only thing that making that feature expensive will do, is make the rich/friends of the rich all that more powerful than they already are.on that note, i also 100% do not support any sort of \"sp liquidity\" once your sp are spent, they're spent, reskilling is for wow."
"perhaps sovereignty would be better served if it was determined by the corporation rather then the alliance.so a corporation can claim any space and start gaining sovereignty.now if several corporations ban together as an alliance they can combine to also form sovereignty.ie - one corporation can drop 3 stations in a constellation for sov 4 or3 corporations in an alliance each one dropping a station can do the same thing.alliances can also create jump bridges between there corporations just like now etc etc.but this also means if a corporation leaves the alliance the corporation keeps there sovereignty.it also means if they join a hostile alliance the lines on the map may be instantly changed.this system would give more power to the corporations as it should be.alliances are corporations who decide they want to band together to create a new greater power.to take it back to the feudal system which is what 0.0 really is.each lord has his own estates. (corporation holds its own systems and stations)the lords ban together under one king (corporations ban together electing one corporation as the executor of the alliance)so like any feudal system if one corporation decides to leave the alliance it doesn't forfeit its estates but rather transfers its loyalties to another alliances or flat out goes rouge.this is the way 0.0 should be, not the current system."
"maybe? this sounds interesting, but there's a lot more pressing things to change with the sovereignty system. this being included at the end of the day could work, but it's not really worth bringing up on its own."
"i believe that the current foundation of the sovereignty system is the problem.having sovereignty controlled by the alliances is flawed to the core.if sovereignty was based on corporations then pos warfare would not be the only way to take over space.all you would have to do is get the opposing corporations to join your alliance and now your alliance has new space with long held sovereignty.alliances would be in danger from within just as much from there neighbors.you would see civil wars appear as corporations struggle for control of more territory or even for just control the alliance.right now all you can do is take over someones space and you start from scratch every time you do it.it makes a lot of people say why bother.and i am just afraid that if ccp changes sovereignty keeping the alliances @ the core even the new system will fail because it is fundamentally wrong.better to change it now and be done with it."
"for great injustice ! seriously, nobody bothered enough by it ?"
"after 1 year of mission grinding l3 + l4, my standing with gallente fed is only 5.60the reason? this goddamn storyline mission: materials for war prepi used to get it 80% of the time, perhaps morethe rewards are a bloody insult to the work i put in to get acces to a storyline."
"thumbs down.it isn't the tracking formula, it is the to-hit formula, it encompasses everything and no, it's not realistic, it's not supposed to be. it's only supposed to be balanced.the changes to webs fixed a game balance issue (ship size imbalances) and you wish to reverse it and unbalance it again, arguing about realism. get over it."
"you are splitting up range and tracking (or rather hit formula).the closer you are inside optimal, the worse for you because potential transversal grows. you have to keep in mind this balance. it does not matter that your damage potential is the same (inside optimal, there is alway same hit chance affected by range).thus if your optimal and your tracking do not match, you are always getting a damage reduction, even if you are in optimal, because you have less tracking than you need.the proposal only fixes this reduction based on transversal, as the growth in effective sig would in part negate the transversal increase. this enables you to be up close withou needed 3 webs and still hit well.pulse lasers are actualy not important in this discussion, as they have the longest possible optimal of all the \"short\" range guns, so they should have the lowest tracking and dps.i'd argue that acs need the best dps given their short optimal (shortest of the bunch), blasters 2nd and pulses last. same with tracking speed.but this is up to discussion, i admit i don't have all the details worked out, i still need a lot of math and graph work."
"you completely missed the point of what i was saying. yes, i know that higher angular velocity is worse than lower angular velocity, in an absolute sense.the point i was trying to make, is that the tracking advantage of blaster verses pulse laser is significant. you (as a blaster fitting pilot) could try going for a near 100% chance to hit, but then your opponent (fitting pulse lasers) would also have a near 100% chance to hit.to use your tracking advantage you need to give up a bit of your eft specified damage. your tracking advantage gives you the option to give up ~25% of your dps to take away ~50% of your opponents dps. push things a bit faster so that you are giving up ~50% of your dps, and your opponent will have lost ~75% of his.unless you are shooting at a pos, you should not expect to hit for 100% dps anyways.every type of turret is important to this discussion as all are affected by the hit forumla.when i see a forumal that gives a siege-mode dreadnought a 100% chance-to-hit against a max-speed intercepter orbiting at 500m, i say bad idea!... or did i misread his proposed forumal? (max(1, ((1/(exp(range/2000))) + 0.5))) ^ ((( tracking_penalty * sig_penalty) ^ 2) + (((optimal_penalty / falloff) / falloff) ^ 2))as a fotenote, i am note entirely certain that blasters/ac are fully and properly balanced. however, if there is a balancing problem it is a lot more subtle then the op makes it out to be. regardless of there being a problem or not, i am certain that the above forumla is not workable, nor is the approach taken by the op to make a \"realistic\" game mechanic desirable. if anyone still believes that there is a problem with the balance of blasters/ac, i would suggest that he write up a detailed case showing why they are unbalanced. don't worry about finding a \"solution\" to the problem. ccp has stated that they don't need the csm to propose solutions, just raise issues."
"shameless bump. then we'll wait another year and see what happens."
"i prefer the existing ideas that ccp has said they are working on; specifically to either impose a higher entrance requirement on alliances to enter fw, or to allow individual corps to join fw (possibly with a higher standing requirement) without having to abandon their alliance.your suggestion continues to lock rp alliances our of the rp war we've been fighting since long before fw was a twinkle in a dev's eye.sorry, t 2, but /not signed..."
"jsut the sov part is enough imho. gaining soverngty over a patch space (therefore becoming a sovering entity yourself) and then going and claiming alligeance to another nation is contradictory.like becq said, the other condition basicly locks out people that have not been in militia."
"ccp still plans to have alliances in fw, it's just that they're very busy on apocrypha as we all understand.when they introduce alliances, it is likely that there will be a standing requirement so that only serious corps/alliances will be allowed entry."
"what about the compromise shirley posted earlier? lvl4 basics, lvl1 advanced, trim some sp from other starting skills.that way, those that want to invest in the long term can still do so, but people in the trial account can experience more of the fun stuff before committing to the waiting game?"
"the point is (and i'll keep this post short so that you understand it), that there may be a choice, but it is a morton's fock. neither option is an equality of good vs bad, both options result in disappointment for a new player."
"i saw it, and i might think about something along those lines. the problem is thats not what this thread is proposing. the proposal in question is the total elimination of learning skills, leaving no alternative. and to that i firmly point my thumbs down. if shirley starts a thread i will be one of the first to support it. :)"
"probably. and that is why most of the things you mention will be mended this year. so again, why keep a feature that scare away new players? eve will still be unique, even if learning skills were left out."
"not true. only the avatars. the interface will probably always be extreme, there will never be a way to grind exp, and as far as i know the learning curve is still pretty ridiculous.so i don't know what you're talking about. this is more than just some random option, as i've said, it's part of a dichotemy that shouldn't be tampered with without a real solution. i've heard one or two promising compromises, the op's suggestion however is not one, and thats the cause for my dissent."
"kill learning. refund skillpoints. give me gallente battleship 5. i like this idea and so should you."
":pylon:nuke em, could care less about my sp. i lost a couple of rl friends when they realized that they would be behind if they didn't train learning skills."
"remove. the skills are completely pointless. they essentially force you to decide if you're going to be playing the game for more than x amount of time."
"signed."
"i'm agent unknown, and i approve this message."
"glad someone here can see reason.i reiterate, you want learning skills removed... remove them.. they dont need a supplement, get rid of the skills, get rid of the attribute points that go along with them.. dont replace learning skills with free attributes.. everyone gets to train as slow as everyone else."
"no i dont want my time being wasted by training them. i trained them a long time ago, it didnt bother me, i just trained up for a certain ship then trained learning skills.as i was flying my new ship my learning skills were training. its a question of wether the noobs can be bothered training them or notthe learning skills help to train faster in the long run, therefore training the skills you want to train faster.eve isnt supposed to be easy! alot of people started off this way, why should it be any different?"
"so your reasoning is \"because i suffered, everyone else should, too!\" ?"
"don't worry, there are others. if you read back i've been argueing with these people all day. they need to just merge this thread with this thread. then they can all play wow together."
"its a trade-off thats up to the player. you could train something other than learning skills at the start like i did, then when the larger skills came up i trained a few up relative to what i needed to shave some time off. its not like its killing you to train up the t1 skills to 4 anyway, and the only thing that really holds people back from the t2 is price.in short, leave them be, they're fine"
"well yeah, noobs have to make their own isk, just like everyone else.....so why shudnt they have to train the learning skills like we all did?no-one forces them to train them straight away. its their choice wether they train them or not.also all the while i was training learning skills i was paying, so yeh i wud rather not waste 1-2 months money, for nothing"
"thats right, i recently started a corp, and brought 7 people into the game. i told them all about learning skills from the beginning. only one of them used it in his overall skill plan. one other uses them sporadically, and they are all playing happily.the myth that all new players will be driven away by...choices.. is utterly insane."
"no one ever said *all*. nice attempt at a straw-man, though."
"i am in ur threadsyou told me \"don't derail them\"i did anyway."
"while you're at it why dont we just remove all other skills so anyone can fly anything, and use anything within 1 day?or howabout everyone who wants to train the learning skills can train as fast as nearly everyone else?"
"your sarcasm isnt really an extension of my own as its a blatant disregard... a better comparison would be we remove all skills but no one is able to fly the ships anyways. since everyone wants the skills gone and a modifier added to the baseline \"in place of\" the skills.you second one is a bit better.. but it makes it sound like you think i actually think this is a good idea... there are benefits to learning skills.. i'm just trying to be fair and say if you want em removed then dont try and supplement them with something else... nice one though"
"i already made my official argument a few hours ago if you'd like to rebut that.i don't need a straw-argument. you don't have any hard numbers on \"players turned away by learning skills\" anyway. nice try at being clever though."
"i see you're still around bumping my thread to keep it on page one for more support! thank you!"
"or for less support"
"i'm staying active on here because i'm a voice of dissent.your idea is stupid and would severely cripple a feature of eve plenty of people like and use. i won't just sit here and ignore that."
"there's been.. hmm.. 3 or 4 people speak against it.. vs. 47 supporting?seems like more people like it than don't. vov guess it's not such a stupid idea."
"personally, i think you are spamming this thread with incoherent rambling because you are an idiot troll. idea!how about we stop feeding him? especially kalryan. your thread can survive without such vigorous defense."
"try 9, not including myself. want to play the numbers game? here is a thread that doesn't even propose a game change that has over 1000 supports. and i doubt it will even matter much.i don't care how many people and alts support your stupid idea. it's a stupid idea, and i will continue to argue against it."
"lol. yeah, removing a month of not training anything interesting would cripple eve and make it horrible to play :("
"no - idiot. you did not read my previous posts.but instead of linking or explaining them i'll just point out you don't have to train them all at once and they are optional."
"uh people arent required to train it... all it would do is remove options, not requirements."
"supporting op's post. learning skills can be established at character creation, not by wasting time and isk, training them in a game where you are trying to gain skills suited to your career path.---"
"ok, i think we need to get to the root of the problem here first.. because it seems people are demanding 2 things as if you cant have one without the other.first off, ok, you don't like/want to train learning skills because its a \"timesink\" even though its a timesink that makes other skills \"less\" of a timesink, so it basically nullifies itself out to being beneficial instead of a \"sink\". like putting isk into physicals assets that appreciate over time, you're spending the isk and not seeing any returns on it until later in the future... as an investment.but we'll just say learning skills are a stupid timesink that no one should have to do. alright, thats settled.soooo... where does this attribute boost come from? this is a completely separate issue, especially considering it would be far more \"fair and balanced\" to \"not\" give anyone an attribute bonus to \"replace\" learning skills. so either you're asking for a \"replacement\" or a \"removal\" of this skills, a determination which needs to be made. but why give the boost. lets just make this simple, drop the learning skills... done. everyone now trains at a relatively similar rate (minus implants) and everyone should be happy yes? timesink learning skills are gone, new players arent \"forced\" into training learning skills first anymore, this is a win win situation, but apparently 2 isnt enough and we want a 3rd win of getting attribute points. this is like having your cake and eating it too with another one on the table, and is excessive to say the least.so whats the justification for the points? everyone trains faster? how is that relevant or necessary, considering most advocates for this want it to be fair and remove the timesink... so its fair to new players not being behind older players and the learning skill timesink is gone. but whats this.. cries of outrage that all skills now take longer to learn since we're running on base attributes? well thats a sacrifice to be made... you wish to take away what is a choice, not a requirement, so now everyone has to take longer to train all their skills. in this scenario the wasteful timesink of learning skills doesnt sound like so much of a waste anymore does it?personally i don't advocate the removal of the learning skills... people just need to be better educated about them. but if they removed them, i would be wholeheartedly against an attribute boost in its place. so if they're gone, then thats it, everyone gets to take longer to train everything, end of story."
"other than a complete arbitrary \"it should be done this way because it makes a proposal i don't like look worse!\" answer the 'why?' behind not boosting the base attributes after removing learning skills.edit for more relevance: the entire point of removing the learning skills is it's a huge timesink of a skill that discourages newer players. removing them and then not boosting attributes leaves us in the same position, more or less. your arguement has no merit."
"not supporting this unless it's guaranteed we get an sp refund. me and many others did take the time to train advanced learning to 5, that takes a long time and is a real investment in the future and i'm not letting that go to waste just because some people get bored easily. i do agree the learning skills were a bad call from the start though."
"i love training skills that don't let me fly/do anything newit's just so exciting"
"learning skills had me within a hair of not playing after the first 10 days, they're a horrible, terrible mechanic when you're trying to get new people interested in eve.give everyone 4/4 (basic & adv) learning skills at the start and call it a wash, let the bitter vets cry salty salty tears."
"from shc:"
"normally i would offer to champion this issue but it was discussed in iceland (off the agenda as part of our discussion regarding the skill queue) and it's already on the drawingboard and being looked at. raising it as an issue at this time would be pointless as ccp are already discussing this and other options (including the other topic currently active in assembly hall) regarding the learning skills."
"thats good news"
"i fully support:a) removal of learning skills.b) giving everyone +10 to all base attributesc) refunding each pilot an amount of skillpoints equal to what he/she had invested in learning skills."
"i'd take it you don't read dev blogs and patch notes?they have a team working on the gui. they have for the last expansions enhanced the tutorial, introduced welcoming pages and other things to lessen the learning curve for new players. but i guess thats just as bad as removing other dull and stupid elements, such as learning skills."
"as someone you manages 700+ apps a month i can tell you only 30 of them people will remain in eve. my brother & i have had a lot of experience with newbies & learning skills are one of the main reasons they quit the game. they need to go away. give everyone +8 to there chars & erase the skills."
"this is good to know. thank you oz. learning skills should never have been put into the game in the first place, but now that they are here, currently.. i think there should be some smooth way to withdraw them and streamline the new player experience a little better. the learning skills were the most unfun portion of the game, to me, back when i started. i brought three people into the game with me and we all used to complain about the learning skills when we were hanging out.more noobs to the fire! they're all the same under my guns!"
"i think this game would be way better without them, to the point that if that meant losing the sps i had invested in them, then regardless i still think they should go."
"totally agreed, and even if only for sympathy, i'll support this thread. learning skills are horror as much as pos warfare and implementation of cap/supercaps, specially titans. a big mistake.p.s: i would even go agaisnt implants, but that's an other issue"
"why dont you just give everyone every single skill to lvl 5 that way noobs will be able to anything!! yay for noobs doing anything within the first few days, seriously vets trained the learning skills, and we are still here..... only the lazy noobs leave the game bcos its \"too hard\""
"kill them with fire and then throw the ashes into the sun"
"i look at the learning skills like modern day education.i can choose to go out into the world with a high school diploma (or your equivalent) and get a crapppy job, or i can invest in the huge time and money sink of a university, and when i get done, get a much better job.and like eve, i don't have to do all the learning at once. i can go to a junior college for two years, and then go to work for a couple of years to get practical experience. then i go back to school for another two years and get a four year degree, and then go back to work. finally, i can get an advanced grraduate degree and then again, go back to work.eve is the same way. i can spend some time training my learning skills, then train the non-learning skills to gain experience, then go back for more learning skills.additionally, if you're working on rank 1 or 2 skills at level 1, 2 or (maybe) 3, the difference between having a learning skill trained and not having them trained can be measured in minutes (if not seconds). so the idea that new characters need them is ludicrous to begin with. you won't need them until you're ready to start trainng rank 4 or 6 skills anyway.it would be more effective to tell people to stop giving noobs bad advice on when they need to train these skills.not supported"
"there is a major flaw if ccp was to refund people training skill time.if persona only trained learning skills for the first few weeks without training anything else, its clear how much they can be refundedhowever, personb trains learning and other needed skills back and forth. his break even point is much farther out than persona. with rough numbers, it has been proven and shown that if two people both have lvl 4 in all learning skills one of those people then train the basic learnings to lvl 5, they both will reach the same ammount of sp in a few months time. the break even point for training the adv learning skills from 4 to 5 are a little over 2 years if i remembered correctly.so long post short, if your seeing if eve is for you, you dont necessarily have to train the learning skills. one can just train the attributes they are seeking (gun and ship skills for example) to enhance their game play. however, if they know how much or how long they want to play, it would be a good investment to train in the learning skills.what can not be seen is that if you do train the learning skills, in a few months time you will have more sp (minus the sp from learning skills) than if you didnt train them."
"support"
"great idea. the learning skill grind is a horrible thing that new players have to go through, and i'm sure it's resulted in a lot of people quitting (i know i nearly did, and i put it off as long as possible).nuke them entirely, or give everyone maxed learning skills, whatever. just take them out of the game."
"exactly this."
"this... big time.but don't expect the op to have the iq to understand such things as rationality and discernment.it's like talking to concrete."
"how cute. another real-world analogy that doesn't apply to a game.also, keep insulting my intelligence, guys. it makes me laugh."
"i know. i'm a glutton for punishment.@thann starlinbowi think you're misunderstanding my point. i didn't have to train those skills. i could have just left well enough alone. by choosing to train them, i accelerated my overall training plan. was it fun? meh - fun is a subjective measurement. to a lot of people mining isn't fun. but they do it because it's profitable. so was training the learning skills. if you don't find them profitable, don't train them."
"i realize what you're saying. however, that doesn't make them any less unnecessary. if they were removed from the game and everyones base attributes boosted, it results in the same outcome, minus the \"i have to train learning skills\" part, which a lot of people find boring and dull.what part of that is bad?and please don't come back with \"choicez\". it's not a real choice."
"i still don't see the argument behind boosting everyones base attributes tbh. at one point there were no advanced learning skills.. so why not just boost by +5? at one point there were \"no\" learning skills.. so why boost at all if you're going to remove them.. your logic is you want to train faster without having any sort of work that goes into it."
"no simply no."
"am i awake? did we just go back in time to 2004?"
"worst idea ever. i quit eve in 2004 because of this."
"bad idea. this will make the m in mwd mean mandatory again."
"why should ccp make it easier for you to shoot me down in low sec? isn't it your job to make it easier for you to shoot me down?not supported"
"terrible idea. i do not want to go back to having to fly x km every time i warp to a gate, making travel take even longer than it already does.support denied."
"full support. increase the scattering from 2500 to 15km and make eve seem big again.it would lessen the pressure on jita, make blobs alot slower (make scattering increase for bigger fleets, bonus for smaller ones, depending on skills) and generally improve fleet combat.cons are that blasterships and stations would need serious loooove (to prevent nerfing to blasters and mad bumps at stations).edit: by a increase in scattering the \"instas\" would be useless as it raises the risk of you ending up even further from the gate."
"i hope ccp will take note of what happened to bob and implement some fix to stop a disgruntled director form killing an alliance as easily as it was done. what solution could be implemented to made what happened to bob more difficult to do?your ideas below..."
"i don't see anyone *****ing when, say, a hisec empire corp gets cleaned out because the ceo gave too much power to one who couldn't be trusted. why should 0.0 alliances be exempt from this?"
"what happened to bob has left a power vacuum, but that's the way eve is. i lost over a billion isk from a high-sec gank a week ago, but that's also what happens. eve is rough, and that's one of the appeals, as that's how new products get sold."
"corp theft is one thing. this is a whole other. it is like comparing someone stealing your tv to russia taking over the us in one night because the president got ****ed and pulled the plug. world of difference.ganks are fine (as a concept). espionage is fine. theft is fine. a single person...one...having such power is game unbalancing.anyone, in any alliance, is at risk of this. perhaps it never occurred to anyone before but it has now. anyone in an alliance has to now wonder if all they have done might go *poof* because one guy/gal gets a bug up their butt about something or other.bob got caught under current mechanics seemingly fair-and-square. fine. but i'll bet dollars to dimes ccp plugs this particular mechanic in the near future.btw...already another and longer thread on this here:"
"while i dislike what was done, it is hard seeing how it can be fixed.1) director ejecting corporations from the alliance. it is a needed mechanic, but it can be abused like in this situation. it can't be limited by a \"alliance wide corporation vote\" or some similar mechanic.2) director closing the alliance.ok, this is a bug, it should be limited to the ceo of the executor corp. but it would have changed almost nothing, all the other corps would have been outside the alliance with all the negative effects."
"maybe it needs a \"secure mode\": the approvation of... half the director of executor corp, for example (or just 2-3... something to prevent the fool action of a single).anyway, i agree with op"
"i'm with bunyip on this one, a fine comparison he has made."
"the events in delve indicate a material weakness not only in the corporate user interface but more importantly in the way corporations and alliances work.the dissolution of an alliance should either happen as the result of a voting process or by individual corporations opting to remove themselves from the alliance. the decision to dissolve an alliance should be made on the ceo level and not on the director level [in the case of the normal eb and flow of the existence of an alliance, director input is of course of vital importance, this is not an argument against directors].this attack on band of brothers was masterfully executed by the goonswarm who made expert use of the game mechanics. it should stand, by all means, however it should never have been this easy.joining an alliance is a conscious collective decision. it should not be possible to undo it by the acts of an individual agent.this is not an argument against corporate theft or high-level [alliance] intrigue. these are what make new eden such a rich and daunting place to reside in. it is the thought process behind corporate/alliance mechanics that needs an overhaul, along with the user interface.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"ccp has asked csm to discuss this topic, so any and all input is appreciated before the meeting on sunday."
"i suppose that the best compromise between speed and security is to request the approval of the ceo alone or 2 directors to expel an alliance member.for disbanding an alliance the approval of the majority of the executor corporation shareholders should be required. it would require some better system for the management of the corporation shares (forced buy back from leaving members? that can be a big problem) but i see little need for a rapid closure of a alliance, so speed don't seem the most important factor. edit: support to the discussion.further edit:if the ejection of a corporation from the alliance require the approval of 2 director, it should have a time limit and a cancel option from the ceo to avoid situations where a disgruntled director can start the procedure against several corporations and the leave it pending forever. note that the ceo would not need a second director to approve his action for a simple reason: he can always nominate a new director, so this limitation would not have effects on him."
"i really don't understand why people are so aghast at a single person changing the patch of an alliance. all it takes to destroy a nation in rl is a single person. the second world war was started by a single person and a single politician drove germany down a dark and bloody route.eve is a cruel and unforgiving place. it is not ment to be any easier and rl, if it was there would be no suicide ganking, corporate thefts would not happen and scamming would be banned. i do however fully support an overhaul of the corporate ui which is quite frankly horrible. total pain to preform almost the simplest of tasks and very easy to miss the details (i love the way the roll fields stretch wider that most of ccps user screens ), there's also the question of how much power is actually needed for individual tasks. a director, no questions asked, should be a powerful position. the problem is rolls are currently bundled together under one umbrella mostly and given how poor the ui is, it's often easier to simply press the director button rather than attempt negotiating those windows. pos fuel technician was introduced to help alleviate some of the strain of pos fuelling which previously fell only to directors, the same with pos gunners but still some of the simplest things, e.g. the ability to create/edit titles, require directors rolls. i think the real question though, is improving the corporate ui part of the planned ui improvements/re-write ccp have mentioned several times in past dev blogs/posts and more over, will there be a review of the rolls alogne side it? can we please, please, have a simple visual indicator of which member has what rolls/powers rather than the horrid horizontal check-box listing that stretches beyone so many users screens."
"as i said before.... you reap what you sow.no one said anything was fair in this game...adapt or gtfo.although i agree... overhaul of the corp ui is needed... but a fix to the mechanics... no."
"wwi was started by one person sort of.if you want to extend your analogy goons are one country and bob another. their leaders steered them down a dark and bloody route and they took to beating the snot out of each other. great! all well and good in eve. if rl was like eve in this case then basically winston churchill would have decided he was ticked about something or other and handed all the british ships and planes over to the germans, turned off all their radar and listening posts, shut down their large ship industry and dissolved parliament and the country. and all that in about 20 minutes of work.it does not make sense. in rl or the game (and yeah i know comparing to two is dodgy procedure around here but works for illustration purposes)."
"screw it, death to bob :)"
"bob is not special, bob is not special, bob is not special.this has happened before to other alliances"
"yeah...and it should have been fixed then. that does not mean it shouldn't be fixed now."
"there's nothing wrong with the mechanics. don't give ultimate authority to someone you can't trust."
"everyone has their price and history books are replete with instances of people who were thought to be trustworthy going turncoat.if you have a magic trust-o-meter we can use share it. otherwise this is still a bad mechanic."
"so what you're saying is because someone can be bought out and do a lot of damage, ccp should change the game mechanics to limit the damage? hell no. these are the kind of things that make eve interesting and unique. this event even gave ccp free advertisement in the form of an article on slashdot."
"alliance interface needs tightening up to prevent this happening to others.alliance security is more vital since the introduction of sovereignty but has not being upgraded.i propose that alliance structure is altered from having 1 exec corp to having multiple exec corp.exec corp have 1 vote each on issues affecting the alliance.issues which require majority vote include..addition of member corp..removal of member corp..promotion of member corp to exec status..demotion of member corp to associate ( standard ) status..dissolution of alliance.each director of each exec corp gets a vote which in turn decides the vote cast by the exec corp as a whole.i think this is a way of implementing an alliance system that does not place excessive power in 1 players hands.what has happened to bob will happen to others.esp. now that this \"mechanic\" is so widely known.when it has happened 10 times are people gonna bother with the ingame alliances mechanics anymore.or are ig alliances just gonna be limited to secure alt alliances for supercap production etc?with the real alliance being maintained through mutual standing and oog means as before the introduction of the alliance mechanics in the first place.kind of means all the work done on the ig alliance system was in vain and alliance systems just becomes a burden that needs to be negotiated via meta-gaming.whatever happens something needs to change.a director should only have enough power to betray those who have placed trust in him ( his corp mates ).corporations of an alliance place there trust in an exec corp not in an individual member of the exec corp.therefore at a minimum it should require the betrayal of a majority of the members of an exec corp to bring down an alliance, not 1 player."
"it is not \"a lot\" of damage. it is complete damage. scorched earth. they went from a multi-corp, 3,000 player alliance to no-alliance in a matter of minutes. there is no check. there is no balance. there is no undoing it. eve has always been about letting players at least have some option or means to protect themselves. they may get outplayed, they may get tricked and that is fine. but this...there is no way to stop it. any person with similar roles in an alliance anywhere in eve can dissolve their alliances right now. they can do it so fast even if the ceo is online it is doubtful that person could be stopped before it was done.again, not a good gameplay mechanic."
"you really need to rethink your position if you think losing a name is 'scorched earth'.what did bob really lose in this whole thing? sov., some dreads and a little isk and a name.the real damage in this entire affair has been pride, plain and simple. with the sov. damage a close second.no ones account got deleted, their pos are still in place.this is not the big deal you are trying to make it out to be. yes, it stings, but it's hardly the end of the world. even the bob members are saying as much.stop rabble-rousing"
"you're missing the point. we are talking about a game mechanic.can you name any mmo where a single person can wield this much power? unchecked power at that? where one person can wtfpwn a 3000 person alliance with the press of a button?on what planet does that make any sense at all?"
"seconded. moreover, it is even inconsistent with other game mechanics. it takes 24 hours to declare or stop a war, it takes 24 hours after someone has dropped all roles from a corp to expel them from a corporation, it takes 24 hours of being without ties to another corporation before they can be allowed into another. it even takes 24 hours before a corporation's addition to an alliance comes into effect.apparently, an alliance can be disbanded by a single director, without approval or cooperation from any other executive in the alliance. an action that has such dramatic consequences on the ongoing operations of thousands of individuals is mere administration by a single agent.this mechanic is flawed. the design of the interface is so poorly conceived that it cannot assign limits to responsibilities for executive officers which, in the new eden universe, is nothing short of amazing naivety. at the same time someone with the role of personnel manager, whose job it ostensibly is, cannot even remove a person from the corporation.at the very least the other executive officers and the ceo and, in this case, the alliance chain of command, should be notified of this kind of activity and have an option to reverse it.why the interface was not designed with these checks and balances built-in is ours to ponder, but it bespeaks a limited understanding of how the functionality should be implemented to serve the needs of an alliance that is building a lasting presence in a persistent universe.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"please build one.thanks."
"please read the csm minutes, its being discussed."
"they're aware of the issue with interbus and i hammered on it quite a lot personally."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"well, i can sympathize and it does not deserve a ban, but pretty unintelligent thing to do just the same."
"first off, dropping tons and tons of ships on a grid does create lag. so you're dumb. secondly, you're further dumb for posting the communication from a gm, which is forbidden on these forums. thirdly, this really isn't a matter for the csm.in short, get out."
"you're not going to get any support from the community for dumping a 100 ships in a busy system.find a less obtrusive way to recruit and/or assist new players."
"tell me one..."
"maybe try using a little of this, plus a tiny bit of this, and plenty of this and this. if you think about it i am sure that you can figure it out.you also have this in-game option."
"locked.please do not post gm correspondence on the forums. if you have an issue with a petition attempt to work it out with the assigned customer services representative. if you cannot, then ask for it to be escalated."
"yes, shiny!alternatively, we could just have medals officially awardable to people not in your corp, eh?"
"much argument about removal of the learning skills.perhaps a compromise?:so as not to shaft players who have recently started, change new character starting skills, to lvl4 basics, lvl1 advanced learnings, at the cost of reducing the amount of lvl4 and lvl5 skills that new chars start with. possibly by a greater amount than you give the learnings.e.g. 800k sp is what new chars start with.6 basic learnings @ lvl4 = 6x 45,255 sp = 271530sp5 adv learnings @ lvl1 = 5x 750 = 3750sptotal in learnings = 275280sp.even if starter total was reduced to 700k or 600k, i think there would be plenty left for enough skills to have fun with.this should allow new chars to advance their skills reasonably quickly, so as to be able to do more fun stuff in the early game.e.g. as is, what happens with new players.\"help, my capacitor empties too quickly\"\"train energy systems operation to help that\"now, with low attributes, energy systems operation 1 takes nearly 20 minutes say, to learn.with higher attributes, it only takes 10, or less.so, a new player can then get back into their game and play sooner, rather than wait, which is most important in early gameplay, in getting people hooked, and signing up.now, you can still make the choice to invest more into the learning skills, but it's not such a stark choice.it also does not heavily penalise those players who made the decision to invest more into the learning skills, training them to v.a change of 275k sp is not a big deal.eve has plenty of long waits in the higher gameplay, is it too much to ask that you don't expose new players to the waiting game before you show them the fun stuff and get them hooked?"
"no, learning skills are optional, i can understand maybe letting them put their 800k starter into learning skills to the exclusion of the ship starter skills but that wouldnt be a good idea because then they wouldnt be able to do \"anything\""
"i didn't bother to read your wall of text, it contained maths and lots of words.easy fix: start everyone with all learning skills trained to 4, refund some moneys to bitter vets, problem fixt."
"linky"
"woothaving received comment from omber zombie, thread is now redundant and i requested it be locked/removed."
"locked at the op's request."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"yeah, it needs some work. i remember an older thread along the same lines here - it was revealed that \"some changes were coming that would make the bio irrelevant\" or some such thing. too lazy to look for it now, but as usual, in typical ccp fashion, it was light on details. as far as formatting goes, i have had the best luck by hitting the 'c' button, which completely clears the bio - including all formatting. then enter in what you want using the standard text. when you are done, highlight and apply formatting as needed.hth"
"i have no problem with my bio so i don't see whats wrong"
"please support this... click reply and select i support this idea! thanks!"
"/signed"
"local was never intended as a tool for intel, against. as an addendum... delayed speaker local would be far more preferable... don't talk.. nobody sees you."
"why am i getting less than 1 fps in a low intensity situation, nearly nothing on overview, and under 100 people in local?before i get replies like \"lol get a new computer noob\" i'll post my specs, with the recommended in brackets for the premium client.os: windows xp (windows<U+FFFD> system xp / vista)cpu: intel 3ghz dualcore (intel pentium<U+FFFD> iv 2 ghz or amd xp 2000+ mhz)ram: 1280mb (2048 mb) - though as i type, still with under 1fps on the client, my total memory usage is 683mb. of which eve is claiming around 600.video: 256mb geforce 8600gs (256mb geforce 7950 or higher, ati radeon x1900 or higher)my drivers are up to date, and i have the same performance issues with the classic client as well.so, the question to ccp, why is it like this? especially considering games with far more intense graphical and clientside processing requirements have no such troubles.at least i can pay for my gametime with isk. i doubt i would be playing at all without that feature."
"sounds like an issue with your computer. first thing i'd guess is video drivers. has you updated them, sir?"
"*snip, cranky* i'm asking this because i have tried absolutely everything thus far, i'm waiting for a ccp response (if they don't treat this like every problem they have - ignore it) rather than help.ps: sorry to the genuine trolls, but i'm going to be ignoring everything except blue posts from here. i'd offer to stroke it for you but i simply am too busy."
"heres a stupid suggestion for you. go to the right board. you appear a bit slow, so i'll help you out by providing the linkage"
"/me attempts an indian accentis your computer plugged in and your monitor turned on?"
"an addition to the iv. live events entry.\"ic, as a news agency, exists to cover such events and will gladly do so where possible. our contact details are news-at-isd.eve-online.com and the submit news button the website.\"just so this is clear"
"the title says it all.with tech 3 right around the corner, now is as good a time as any to end the unfair advantage that older corps have with tech 2 bpos.why ?because it unbalances the game and gives certain corporations an unfair advantage over others. because invention works and there is no reason to keep this older system going on.because i don't have any what do you all think ?"
"how did issler even get on the csm anyways"
"by the time honored process called \"voting.\""
"they do appear a little pointless on the face of it -- why not just make the main skills a little longer to train? - i ask myself.i must admit that i'm not actually bothered by them an the handy little evemon tool tells you when it's a good time to train one so they are no real hinderance.like the original post says, it would be annoying to have new players in the game that instantly have learning skills of 5.im not sure its a problem ccp can or even need to solve. its a mild annoyance at worst to me."
"i can't really see why anybody sees a problem with learning skills. i'm glad that i've got my 13m sp, from which 2m are learning skills. i am now, after a few months of playing learning my charisma adv. skill to 4, maybe i'll take the rank1 to 5, dun know. it's all my choice. someone could chose not to make skills that high (all except charisma i got 5 rank 1 and 4 adv. skills). that was a pretty long time you know. but i didn't train them as a start, first i trained some small skills to be able to fly a cruiser and use some basic drones.i know that now i'd love to have those learnings skills all at 5/5 but it was a choice.if all noobs got 5/5 learning skills instantly... it would be a great hit for all other players. 2m, 3m sp in learnings would have to be transfered to other skills. at the same time, you'd have to give the older players all the sp that they would get if they had all skills at 5/5 from the beginning. those are tons of data to process. and it's pretty pointless.learnings skills are sort of a basis of the entire system. you can also live without cybernetics skill, without implants, but it's good to have it. again, it's your choice that when you die you lose 70m or more in implant value."
"and there you go folks, the goons have gimped the csm process. everything they do is done to f*&k over the eve population, when oh when are you dolts going to wake up"
"as per ccp request, alliance executor mechanics to be added to the agenda."
"bumpya, with all the bob petitions, i suspect ccp is still not able to spare the time."
"opps, you did say next, not this week. patience young one, patience...."
"exactly"
"i heard somewhere that bob went down because someone from goonswarm got hold of a director level login for eve and removed all of the corps from the alliance and then did something else to do with the towers that meant that after downtime the sov was gone.sounded like a shallow victory but they went about it in a very well thought out way so i guess you could say that they were skilled in their execution.not sure i understand it as i am probably too new to the game to understand the ins and outs of how all that works."
"precisely right. it seems rkz was a backup alliance with at least 1 pos in each of those systems. very clever move."
"oh my god, if you change your name you'll possible lose all your internet rep!how am i suppose to hate some internet dude that might of quit and sold his character if he changes his name?! aaaaaaaaaaaa"
"i don't know the story about why they don't exist, but i'm going to assume it goes with the nature of the game.but, i was thinking, what if there was a name change log, similar to employment history. that way you can see 'he was named bill from 10.10 to 10.12 and in the corp stewie from 10.10 to 10.11 so he is obviously a spy' scammer or etc."
"minmatar needs a change.those three things i would like to be changed:1. minmatar is the speed & agility race, and yet there are some ships from other races that are lighter and faster, e.g. compare claw mass to crusader, crusader ends with more speed and more agility in the end.2. you can tracking disrupt falloff with range scripts but you cannot boost it with tracking enhancer using a ranges script, serious flaw in design.3. the bs line of minmatar is the weakest ingame in my opinion, the phoon is nice but it uses drones and missiles. the less base dmg of ammo and falloff mechanis makes it worse. i think the falloff mechanis needs a change, the dmg drop should not be linear and the large ammo could need a raise by 1 point of dmg. change point 1 & 2 and i think those bs will be much better then."
"i suport..since i just cross trained minimitar and had a maelstrom now"
"please guys, when you support a thread, click on the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" tick box above the post reply button."
"yeah, but looks like this thread doesnt need support,nor ppl wanna support it^^"
"i like your sig la vista, let our voices be heard yet again, and this time, present it, not as the funky pos thing, but as the dead horse pos thread, and really talk about it again, i don't mind if you guys bring it back 10 times, it just shows that maybe ccp should reconsider it since so much of the community is interested in it."
"here is an idea. we will get it eventually. just let ccp finish what they have already promised first. ambulation has been in the works for too long. as has some other things.pos do need a renovation. but they were not \"promised\" to us. they can wait. dont worry, they will come eventually. but let ccp catch up with their mile long to do list abit first."
"eggsbreadtoliet papersockssockssocksbeeroh, sorry. i was out of paper and was making my grocery list.i have to agree with this dude.directors should not be allow to kick corps, nor should ceo be alow to kick corps.it must be voted upon. also, directors should not be allow to kick members, nor should ceo be allow to kick members.it must be voted upon.also, random people shouldn't be appointed as directors.it must be voted upon.also, random people shouldn't be able to start corps.it must be voted upon.also, you shouldn't be allow to post.it must be voted upon.everything must be a voted upon!"
"i do believe this was an oversight by cpp."
"but it'd be prettier - not gay."
"the freedom of speech does not mean freedom from judgment. if the freedom is allowed for someone to make a hateful comment on a group of people based on really bad logic and incorrect statistics the learned in a sermon but waves the flag that they are tolerant, then someone else has just as much right to cal them a hateful ignorant bigot. and vice versahowever ccp determine what is or is not allowed. if someone has a problem with policy or implementation i would contact them directly instead of the forums."
"the problem is the gay community equivocates ...to oppose homosexuality means you're homophobic.of course equivocation is a fallacy, but hey - this is the politics of sexual morality.personally, there should be no sexual references, as far as i'm concerned, in this game. such a prohibition affects heterosexuals as well as homosexuals. however, without such a prohibition you are going to get people, such as the op expressing a preference, .. and others pointing out that such a preference is immoral.this is freedom of speech."
"the problem is the op is posting in the wrong forum."
"ummm.... get over yourself, get on with your life, stop acting like a victim. you wont get anywhere unless you stop acting like the world is out to get you. you don't like what someone writes, dont read it anymore."
"bad idea."
"rich players get rich faster. new players learn frig iv a bit faster.rich player gives alt 1bil, alt trains for rnd agents and uses money he earns to maximize him self, rich player now has two awesome chars and uses them to make 4 awesome chars, and so on. broke eve."
"way op! i'd agree to pay isk for accelled sp gain (so that the rich cant make cap pilot accounts in aday) say for instance a -15% duration on skills for 100mill per 30 days. again would be a nice isk sink and limit people from ubering up so fast! or you could have it split up slightly like 20mill gets you 3%, 40mill gets 6% and so on."
"since ccp threw out ghost training cause they want money. might as well just throw money at them to get a few months of training done so i don't have to be bored and drunk as much. if ccp does this change, they could help stop my liver disease."
"it would just increase the gap between the uber and the newbies even more... unless there was a restriction on how much sp you could buy per month..."
"so would putting down the bottle once in a while. but that's a personal problem, and not worth breaking the game over.no matter how much you make this cost, no matter how much you trim it down, no matter how low you make the acceleration rates, this will kill eve. the alts that have been in game for years will suddenly have six or seven alts with nothing but level 5 skills. sell those for isk, wash, rinse, repeat. pretty soon everyone in the game will have all level 5 skills, and at the point, why play?emphatically, unquestionably, not supported"
"look at how dumb you are.right now you're already paying for the skills, just right now you have to be there to click the stuff. the gap between new players and old players is very extreme, in all honestly i think they need to make it so clones could only hold up to 40mil skill points. that would be a better solution, but this would anger to many people. letting people buy up to say the 20mil skill point mark wouldn't be that big of a deal and forcing them to watch their skills slowly train after that."
"seems to be a resounding \"no\"and i agree, this will destroy eve.people who have been with the game for years have earned their place to fly the bigger ships. people who can't better start training and stop complaining that it will take them too long.edit: this idea is gay."
"i like this idea. sovereignty needs a good reworking, and this could help it drastically. supported, and i'll champion this idea at the next csm meeting."
"cool idea."
"im sure you agree to almost everything on here bunyip :) but it sounds like a good idea to me"
"i suppose its not a bad idea. wander how this would affect server load - prolly only at downtime."
"0.0 revamp coming next on ccp's list after apo. possibly after ambulation. possibly before.but it has been said.or at least i think it has been by ccp that the big sov 0.0 all encompassing revamp is coming next. either after apoch or ambulation. not sure which, but it has been said.case closed."
"keeping this on the front page until dev blog appears"
"for those of you that weren't watching the alliance tournament coverage, a ccp employee apparently thought we'd be excited to hear that, hey, whenever you lose a tech 3 ship, you lose a tk3-related skill level! i detect high levels of time-sink in this sector, captain!please don't jerk us around, ccp. if you want to keep us in the game, do it by releasing engaging new content, and not by utilizing copout mechanics like this one to keep people perpetually training the same skills over and over. does anyone else take issue with this mechanic?"
"if this is true, it's a terrible mechanic."
"i'm reserving judgement till some details (hint ccp, dev blog) is released."
"this!"
"utill more details are released on t3, i will have to say the losing sp mechanice is lame and not needed."
"provide a link to any proof that you didn't simply pull this out of your rear.*edit* alright then - i totally disagree with the mechanic. supporting the tentative resistance to it."
"what's there to wait to hear? it's a cheesy timesink."
"i highlighted the problem. we don't actually know anything other then, that you lose skillpoints from certain set of skills. what i would vote for is clarification on the mechanics, since i have a hard time seeing ccp adding skillsinks to a game, that already takes decades to max your skills in.we need trustworthy info from ccp, not more speculation on the little info we have."
"respectfully, you don't make any sense. you're questioning whether it's true? a ccp employee said it. he said you lose skill-levels from the tk3 related skills when you lose ships. provided the ships don't spew isk out their exhaust ports or have sixteen high-slots and hardpoints, i'm not sure what will balance out this irritating mechanic."
"at fanfest iirc, they talked about a system of \"experience\" for the techiii ships, exp lost when ship destroyed/repackaged, perhaps this is it.the ship \"train\" a specific skill and you lose it along with the ship."
"well after this, i'm pretty sure i've had it with the entire notion of t3. they weren't even able to pump out ambulation in 2008 like they originally planned, quantum rise was a joke, and honestly, considering the host of other fixes the game needs... obscenely expensive t3 ships just seems silly.i'd rather have the option to introduce basic color patterns and paint-jobs to ships before t3. x.x"
"donotwant!"
"the problem i see here, is that it makes no sense for us to have to lose sp for losing one of these ships. they are going to be very difficult and time intensive to get or expensive because of the time people put into them. isn't that enough of a loss when/if you get popped? i was excited for the t3, but if i'm going to be losing my sp, then i'm not interested. however, i'm still interested to hear ccps discussion and comments on this issue. i impatiently ( ) await your dev blog on this monday morning (hint hint...).edit:if this is what we lose, then i can live with that. i would find it pretty neat if we gained extra exp on our ship for each successful engagement but lose that when we lose that ship. as long as i don't lose my ability to use large guns/laucnhers/whatever module i trained a long time to train."
"this. i just hope it wont be too late."
"i recall a old spaceship game from fasa where if you were using the same ship and you scored kills with it you would \"learn\" the individuals ship strength and weakness, becoming capable of better redlining it for maneuverability.if it is something like this, getting extra sp tied to the ship you are using and losing them when the ship is destroyed or repackaged, it can be reasonable. but i want to stress the extra part, something over and above what you get from regular training."
"yes. and ccp chronitis, or whatever the hell his name is, implied that we'll have to retrain our own skills when we lose a tk3 ship.lame."
"if this is true then risk v reward is throughn out window examplea player in t3 ship enages a lets say mael mael calls backup they gank t3 ship you loose billoins of isk and sp gankers gain isk and gain the enjoyment of making someone loose sp without catchin there pod risk v reward broken as gankers will loose nothing yet gain alott3 ship enages a lone mael mael has no backup and looses t3 ship pilot gains maybe 50-100 mill yet could loose sp + billions of iskrisk v rewards there for brokenccp rethink what you are doing o and another thing for risk v reward is missionersthey have isk to buy t3 ships they fit and buy they mission reward no risk!!! you carnt gank these in high sec since they will be to overpowered with concord on there side it would be like ganking a titan in high sec with concord on its sidethis feature is very very bad thought through and who ever made it should be fired right nowsigned for getting rid of it if it is true"
"while i have seen nothing to suggest that this will happen, it is a stupid idea because it will just keep people from flying t3 ships.i know i won't be flying them if this happens as i know they will be called primary whenever they show up in pvp because lost sp hurts more than lost isk.even carebears won't fly them (assuming they can run level 4 missions) as they will be targeted for suicide ganks in high sec.this had better be fake or a joking ccp employee."
"if there's like a profficency boost the longer i pilot a specific t3 ship without loosing it. hell yeah, i'm all for it.if i need to train skills to pilot the ship, skills wich i lose when i get podded.... not that great but hey, it's eve.just need to wait and see what ccp has in storage for us."
"yea im about the same thing though anny sp lose i wil not be happy with and i wont be flying t3 shipswhat i can understand in crew sp lose say your t3 ship come's with a crew wel if/when ship goes pop crew dies so you need to get a new crewnow here is also a new market option depending on how imported crew is and what type of crew your wanting to use ( not sure of type's but hell) say a carebare trains a crew and is then able to sell the crew to a other player to use in his ship that player will then get a rank 5 crew and the seller wil start to train a new rank one crew so what im hoping is that crews wil be the same ass mod ya can buy them sell then and the t3 mod/crews you can also train them"
"open questions that need to be explained in the dev blog.1) what happens if i eject? if you lose sp when your not piloting the ship, does that mean that the person who assembled the ship loses sp, say, if you dismantle a pos, and a number of t3 ships appear and there destroyed, can you remotely remove someone's ps? even though there off-line?2) is this really endgame content? ie, no noobs aloud?3) by adding a new risk metric, which cannot easily be compared with traditional (isk) for a hull size that generally explodes on contact with asteroids, along with components which have unmanageable, and unpredictable risk attached to there acquisition, the reward for flying them would have to be unbelievably high - 4) if this is end game content, considering your mo of spending more time on things a greater chunk of the community would be prepared to use, won't t3 in that format this be a total departure from that direction and how could you justify denying further player requested end game content any further?"
"really we have to wait for them to be put on singularity on monday, then we can make our decisions on whether it is a bad idea or not. it is possible ccp has made a ship that no one will fly but it is also entirely possible they have thought this out more than it may seem.we do not know the training time on the tech 3 skills we do not even know if they are like regular skills.i personally am going to wait until i have some solid facts before i decide if this is a bad mechanic or not."
"remove it. remove it now, fire the moron who proposed it, and forget this entire disaster ever happened.sp loss on ship destruction is just an incredibly stupid decision. congratulations, now you've just created a set of skills that nobody will ever train past level iii (and rarely past level ii) because ships die more frequently than you can replace the sp to level iv or v."
"i think what was hinted at is ship specific sp.take for example. and this is just wild speculation. but while you own the tech 3 ship. you are doing separate \"skill training\" that the ship itself does. that you do at the same time as your normal skill training. effectively your ship is \"training\" a different set of skills. like tech 3 gun firing 1-2-3. and if you lose the ship. you lose these \"extra\" skills. you don't lose your gunnery skills or the skills required to use tech 3 ships or components or any of your normal skillset. but you do lose the extra \"spiff\" attached directly to the ship and have to retrain it once you get a new ship. this is my guess of what would happen. i personally find it interesting if this is the case. but it ads a new risk that get's progressivly bigger as you \"train\" your ship more. but then again it also gives an emotion attachment to the ship. it's your ship. you made the components, you raised it, fed it noobs, watered it. you dont want to lose it. but whats the point of having it if you never use it?tldr versionit will almost certainly be a separate \"set\" of skills that you train at the exact same time as your normal skills. aka train 2 skills at the same time. 1 normal 1 ship specific. or something like that."
"ok, to make the game more realistic, the topic of ship explosion damage has been discussed and is a serious consideration to kaae the game more true to life, yes more lag but isnt that being resolved for walk in stations and planetry exploration etc?ramming speed .... your battle ship/bc or cruiser just been ganked by 12 cowards, your about to go through hull, they`ve taken your cap, you cant target , wheres the fun and honour in that? sitting bored waiting for your prized ship to go pop with no chance of fighting back sooo , call down to scottie in the engine room, full speed ahead, ramming speed ! then you line up and take out that real juicy looking ship , yahhoo revenge.. damage would depend on ship types, sizes, weights and speeds, but a hell of way to go out eh ?"
"no. your justification for the idea is to \"make it as real sci-fi as possible\". ccp makes the game as realistic to its own ideas. not to all sci-fi. come up with a better justification for this idea and maybe i'll support it. --isaac"
"this!this is a game, not a sci-fi simulator.you idea sounds good right up to the part were you try and add it to the game."
"the trouble with ramming in eve compared to other sci-fi is that ramming is generally pretty fatal. when death holds no fearing then ramming because too easy and too powerful.now if a ramming kill involved automatic death and automatic sp loss for the rammer then i might support this."
"yes this sounds legit and useful"
"sounds like a very well thought out idea."
"just get rid of them, give everyone the 12ish points you would have for max learning skills and then only character creation and implants would affect your attributes.oh and please find a way to give the vets a way to get the sp back."
"i support this idea. get rid of them give us the points instead, and figure out a way to give older players their sp back."
"i support this proposal."
"absolutely 100% support this. i had a friend that tried a trial account and the whole concept of the training skills just drove him nuts. remove this tedious waste of time. i hated training them. have one character maxed and one not quite maxed and i don't care if they train faster or not."
"that seems to be evidence that it is indeed a choice. i made the same choice."
"i see both points of the issue and really see both as a good and a bad thing. i cannot personally see a reason to remove them nor can i see a reason not to remove them. they encourage an older and more mature player base who is willing to tough out the time it takes to pick them up, but they also discourage people who may have toughed it out if they realize how much fun the games is after that boring time.i do like the idea of being rewarded for being patient and willing to take the time to learn them, but perhaps they go to far. maybe the first tier one attribute specific learning skills should be remove and players just recieve 5 more points on there attrubutes. but keep learning and the second tier skills to reward those who have the patience to be rewarded. this would mean new characters would not lag so far behind if they trained up enough other skills to have some fun before they realized the benefit of the learning skills."
"it's more than that though. the learning skills provide a specific alternative to implants, i.e. invested time over instand gratification.there are more arguments to keep the skills than to remove them."
"qftit all matters in the long run. as another poster said that when he added additional learning to his que, his training time shortened."
"i support this fully!"
"give us (old and new) +10 to all attributes to make up for the loss of books and i'm all for it."
"can we all just get +20, seriously.they raise the cost of the game, might as well make everything train faster."
"the arguements for removing the learning skills, no matter how deftly worded, all seem to boil down to: \"make it faster! make it easier!\" still not supported."
"agreed."
"having slept on the topic, i would be willing to offer support for an idea that i think someone else suggested earlier in this thread. remove the learning skills from the active part of the game and make them part of character creation, but without raising the total number of skill points new characters get.it seems like an adequate compromise. old characters don't lose what they have already invested, and new players don't have the dreariness of actively training them. what this would basically do is move the choice of whether to train learning skills into the character creation process, at the expensive of some of the more advanced skills that new characters get. once they enter the game, those skills are then fixed.the idea of moving learning skills, i would be willing to support, as long as old players have enough warning to train them before they get shifted. the idea of just dumping them i am still against."
"faster may be a correct word to use, but easier is not. easier suggests that it take alot of effort to click \"train\".but nitpicking for the sake of it aside, most of the arguments against it seem to revolve around the keeping of choice, even if thise choice is in fact a morton's fork. both outcomes of learning skills are undesireable, and are only undertaken because of only having two choices, this is real fun gaming material!"
"this idea comes up every few months, and no matter how the new person spins it, it always boils down to: i want it noowwwwi simply can't condone this behavior. i had the patience to train them, thousands of other people have had the patience to train them, and those that don't; leave. good riddance, sir!"
"personally it bother me either way. i've done the training, it's in the past. that said, i can not see what the learning skills bring to game other than tedium.someone said earlier that all skill training is boring. not true. waiting for a ship skill to complete has a sense of anticipation, something that draws people in. the learning skills do nothing in this regard.the only caveat is that if they are removed then anyone that has them trained needs to have the ability to reallocate the sp."
"this.... if it was going to get taken away.... then the balance along with game mechanics should not be messed with.sp's should not be raised.. nor lower as a result of them being removed.otherwise your screwing with players who have put the time in for those learning skills regardless of what you can dream up for an excuse to have them removed."
"qft"
"it's interesting you mention this, because they do something in that regard. they shave off time from every skill they are related to. i have friends who are all new to the game, and they love training one or two levels in learning skills to speed up lvl 4s and 5s.most of the people in this thread arguing for the removal of the skills either don't understand the balance they form attribute wise, or they are simply looking for an easier game."
"to be fair, i've only gone through this once as i don't use alts too much. back then i had to do basics 5 to get the advanced skills. might be less tedious these days."
"yes, the first time they changed the skills because of the tedium, they made the adv skill requirements basics lvl 4. so yeah it has gotten way better. you can get a good +8 in any skill, with way elss training than it used to require.i feel as though the learning skills have been messed with enough. to remove them entirely or nerf them further would upset a balance."
"you keep saying this like it means something because you're to stupid to actually think about what anyone else is saying. if they remove the learning skills and boost attributes at the same time, then it's the same thing as not having to train those learning skills to 'train another skill faster and shave off time'.but keep repeating it, maybe you can convince people by repeating it over and over. like greme said earlier, the learning skills are not a real choice. they're just something you lose out on, no matter which choice you make. it's like making a choice between getting punched in the nose or getting punched in the gut.personally, i'd rather choose to eat ice cream."
"you're a myopic imbecile.removing the learning skills and simply boosting everyone's attributes is just as pointless as removing them and lowering everyone's attribute points. if all you want is a short, easier, game - perhaps you should go play something else.whether you like it or not the skills and how they are trained are a choice. it's a choice between time-investment with the skills, and cash investment with implants. you can dress it up all you like, and say it's not a choice, but thats arguing semantics. not reality.you're a fool, and trying to argue with me just shows all the little leaks in your failboat."
"i'm still inclined to support this but i agree that it may not be worth the development time involved. certainly there's more important concerns."
"its over 9000!!!! (pwn4g3)"
"and you're an idiot. look, you can keep tossing insults all you want and so can i.training the learning skills may be a 'choice' but it's not a real one, as much as you keep trying to convince yourself of that. why don't you go for some more ad hominem arguements, i hear they work real well in proving your point. oh wait, no they don't."
"it's funny you start throwing latin at me, like some pseudo-intellectual dipstick.even more ironic is you don't seem to know what that means. you're the one arguing against the source without evidence. i produced a logical dichotemy as to why the skills shouldn't be removed. you just ignored it.i point out it's a choice. you say it's not a 'real' choice. your vapid empty rhetoric just makes you look like a bumbling fool. also, for the record, you started the insults several pages ago, astonished that anyone could disagree with your poorly executed and poorly thought out suggestion.removing skills and boosting attributes as you say would only leave the player with fewer options of how to develop their character, while simultaneosly crippling half of the attribute gain system. leaving only implants.i will not repeat this argument again for you. if you don't get it this time i'm going to chalk it up to inbreeding or a fault in your education."
"try again, you failure.it's not a real choice, as was pointed out to you several times, you just choose to ignore it. the 'choice' you so espouse is merely choosing one of two undesirable alternatives. either 1. train learning skills, which are widely acknowledged not to be fun or 2. train slower than everyone else, thereby falling behind. that's not a choice.if player attributes were boosted when learning skills were removed, it wouldn't matter. or is that to complicated for you to understand? this statement is merely an extension of your previous \"but it's really a real choice\" arguement.oh look, more ad hominem attacks. how cute."
"yeah i had to quote myself since your wall of text did exactly what i said you'd do. you ignore the core of my argument.also - you began in the insults, hence the irony in your little ad hominem bs.again - the skills give you an option of how to develop your character's attributes = a choice.boosting all attributes removes the choice.how long do you want this to go on? i can do this all year."
"hey, so can i. it's not a real choice. it's a choice from two bad options.want to repeat how it's a choice again?"
"here is the page where i made the argument the first time.i won't repeat myself just because you have trouble making sense of it."
"it's because your arguement has no merit. vovchoice from two bad options is not a real choice."
"what makes those options bad is subjective - and not everyone agrees they are bad options.oh and by the way - bad options don't nullify the choice."
"they don't nullify the choice, they just make it a bad one. and the majority of players in this game all hated having to train the learning skills."
"bull. ****.you're pulling that out of your rear because you got a few supports."
"actually, personal anecdotes. i've never talked to anyone.. and i've been playing this game for three years now.. who has liked training the learning skills.but that's kind of why i started this thread.. to see how many people think the same way. s'ok though, ccp are already working on this issue. vov"
"cool story brah. don't care at all. i've been around quite awhile and i've had the opposite experience. the only people who didn't appreciate the learning skills, didn't even have the patience to get into battlecruisers.and in any case, this board is about matters for the csm. i don't care what ccp says it's doing. i will argue against this issue and vote against any csm rep who supports it."
"same."
"in the real world we are no where near space age, but we can make navigation systems so good, that automatically landing airplanes (yes it is automatic) has to be randomized to prevent ruts from forming in the runway from the planes landing in the same exact spot over and over.'but this is eve not real life' i counter with (to op)'this is eve, not scifi.'"
"why not just remove warping from the game? it would make eve big again^^"
"they gave the option to warp to 0km to stop bm copying... back when it was warp to 15km everyone set there bm's beyond the gate and warped to them instead of the gate so they could land on it... the problme arised when everyone would have sets of bm's on tere profile and when someone new joined the corp/alliance they would copy them a set (the problem of this is bm's are saved on the server and people would be copying hundreds at one time) if they made the bm copying system different it would work. (maybe a bit like bp copying but faster) so you could limit to x bm's at one time and x slots per station... but then noone would still revert to the old days where you warped to your bm instead of the gate."
"the only way i would entertain anything on the topic of wtz, is if the old bookmark system got a serious and game-entertaining overhaul.linking bookmarks in a macrolike manner to create routes would create a lot of interesting game content.this way the bookmarks could be traded and linked into your routeplanner. then locations of gates and stations should shift slightly over time, and your navigationskills would compensate for the drifting so to speak. in effect your calculations would be wrong if your not skilled, and if to much time has past..calling up other players to get refreshed bookmarks would then become a game mechanic, and you could even make a biz of plotting and selling entire routes of safety.with this a route plottet the same day would become ungankable unless the pirates used interdictors or warpdisruption.such a system i believe would also bring a false feeling of safety to pilots and thus help roaming pirates.nb: to my knowledge we have all been wanting a more exciting way to get the gateparking a bit out of the game, this might do that.. or at least help it.."
"nope! just make tackling gear better, reach further. if you have to fix all ship turret weapon ranges to accomodate, then do that too.tackling is the single most important aspect of pvp, not guns or warp to zero. and ccp nerfed it with the speed changes.my opinion is that statsis webifier needs a boost and ship agility needs a further nerf."
"no"
"things like this should not be possible. it doesn't have anything to do with eve being harsh or not. that is a hollow statement, because it does not create harshness. it is simply ******ed.it could be compared not to a highsec gank, or a senior officer who steals money from a corp. it could be compared to senator joe ****man disbanding the united states simply by sending unfriendly letters to all the states and telling them to frell off, then disbanding the union and everyone would have to go along with it because he does it on a sunday evening, when everyone is at home with their families.it should not be possible to disband an alliance with the same simplicity as you scrap a frigate. even switching a character from one corp to another is more complicated than that."
"i had to think about this for awhile and take bob out of my thinking, i just don't see the joy in here anywhere, even for the button pusher who ends an alliance. i read the ****** analogy above and it just doesn't pass the muster test, ****** never acted alone, he had a giant organization following him and it only went down with most of the world arrayed against him. i mean is there anyone here who seriously thinks goering could have disbanded **** germany (deuschtland)? this is just complete sophistry. i absolutely endorse a reworking of the alliance mechanic."
"ok, your complaint is that a guy with ceo-like powers, used them to his advantage as though he was a ceo. hmm.....i'm sorry, but i sense a pattern. ceo, ceo-like powers....considering that the executor doesn't have to give out director powers and that he himself can disband the alliance with 1 push of the button says that:\"it works as intended\". unless game mechanics are changed for the ceo, i do not support any change to directors. you don't need them. do not like how much power they have? do not promote them. easy as that. our corp has like what 2 directors? we're still managing just fine too. whether its changed is up to ccp. as i see it, this feature works fine as intended. if i heard the bob representative on eve-radio correctly, \"this person was not supposed to be a director in the first place\". basically, it was a mistake and bob paid for it. --isaac"
"i believe espionage and theft are good for eve, there is nothing wrong with theft or offlining a pos's and cynojammers or numerous other espionage activities. the problem though is the ability to utterly disolve an alliance within the course of an afternoon by kicking all member corps is a detriment to the game. i can see crippling an alliance but not disolving it. perhaps a limit on the number of corps that may be removed per day or a delay like there is when removing a member from a corp would stop this, or requiring the confirmation of a second director to complete the action.for corp a form of limited director with only access and the ability to grant access to certain roles and divisions could be very useful to reduce the risk of it being completely cleaned out in the course of an afternoon by a single individual. it would also be useful for the directors to be able to propose a vote to expel another director rather than just the ceo as there are times a ceo may be gone for a few days and must be removed from that role."
"it isnt a matter of stpping corp thieft, or spys from doing damage... this is that they must have forgot to add something to the cancel alliance option... everything else in alliances needs votes or has timers, hell even leaving an alliance has a 24hr timer. but the fact that 1 director has the power to close an alliance??? kinda sounds strange, it should be the ceo of the holding corp and even then there should be a 24hr timer and if there is more than 50% object from the corps/share holders, then it cancels. i'd also think there could be an impeachment option, if a corp/alliance feels that there ceo's or directors are making bad choices or are corrupt they can vote to overthrow them."
"i got a crazy idea, how about only have people you trust be a director. if they decided to screw you over, not much can be done but strip them as fast as possible."
"in alliances, especially big ones holding corps are usually an alt corp inwhich all the ceo's of the alliance have a directors lvl char (so that they have equal rights as each other... to be fair) so imagine if one of the say 10 corps in the alliance have a fall out but dont want to leave... they could just boot everyone else out and there is nothing anyone can do to stop them (except boot them out first)also i recon its about time they expanded to the next stage of group progression... factions! would cost 25bill to create a faction. factions are made up of multiple alliance. the big bonus to factions would be factions can deploy system defences (senty turrets) at gates and stations/outposts. they would use fuel and ammo and require sov 4, max number of 4 per gate/station (depending on what size turrets you want) can be set to auto hit based on faction standings. immune to all forms of ecm. cannot be anchored at moonsfuel would be very little amount, i.e. the biggest sentry would only use 1/4th of what a small pos uses."
"quick fix would be a 24 hour timer, and messages sent to all alliance ceos and possibly directors saying who carried the action out, so they can reverse it and stop it from happening again."
"how about:1) leave director's abilities to expel corps2) except the executor corp. this requires a vote.can anyone see any issues or possible exploits with that?"
"if the ceo has a 24h window to overturn the directors expel then yeah. that way if 2 corps fall out one doesnt kick te other. (unless ofc they are the ceo in which he can do whatever the hell he wants!)"
"exactly - every character being turned to the biomass has a timer. turning an alliance into nothingness should as well... \"merely\" kicking out corps should have a shorter one of course, or the option to skip the timer by a second director countersigning the decision."
"priceless. please make sure to provide a transcript of csm-delegate darius johnsons take on this."
"it seems like a very strange situation, though one that allegedly has happened before (be it at a much smaller scale). when compared to what has happened, it does appear silly that removing roles and subsequently kicking people from / leaving a corp, as well as a lot of other things have a cooldown period of 24 hours. having to vote on every second decision where one single director could do this seems equally silly.i honestly am unsure what would be the best course of action - it boils down to what mechanics ccp thinks should and shouldn't be possible. i do feel that the entire way of corp (and alliance-) management should be analised and (possibly) redesigned for better and easier usage.*edited for clarity*"
"the issue is that the method of band of brothers disbanding was completely and entirely preventable. but also completely and entirely unstoppable. there are ways you can stop spies, there are ways you can stop disgruntled people. but what we had is a director who \"disappeared\" for awhile. so they just assume he's gone or something. then simply logs back on his old char and disbands the alliance. boom pearl harbor x10. something like this should not be possible at an instant atleast. they had no defence nor way to stop it. in this reasoning it takes only 1 person with directorship to disband any alliance. while eve is based on risk, reward, and consequences these consequences have to be controlled as to not be out of proportion. while i agree he had ceo like powers, dictator like powers. no 1 man should be able to undo the work of 3000 on a whim. what if this happens after a drama fallout or 1 directer just gets **** drunk, has an argument on vent. and disbands the alliance in anger. woke up the next day sober. and too bad. he screwed an entire alliance royally.1 man should not have this kind of game mechanic power unless he is the prime executer of the alliance. the primary issue i think is also the whole warning thing. there should be a 24 hour warning or wait before an alliance disband. it seems to be the way eve works. it is already an exsisting solution to many things.while it is cool and all to have realistic consequences for actions or lack of internal security. this was neither, this was a disgrunted employee who just nuked band of brothers. this is neither a fun nor cool way for an alliance to end. no effort was expended to get him to do so. it was just a press of a button, no big infiltration schemes, nothing. gone poof!i would say change it. it just seems unfair and blown out of preportion, sure 1 man can **** someone royally in real life if he is in the right position. but as far to cause the immidiate disolution of an organization? i dont think so.imagin the president of the united states turning rogue. he would do alot of damage, but he couldnt disband the usa. he couldnt nuke the world. there are things inplace to prevent that.queen of england? prime ministers of country's? leaders and dictators? highest men in their government? they can sure cause alot of damage if suddenly set against their parent countries. but they cannot disband and utterly destroy it very easily. or instantly.lets look at ceo's. they can do alot of damage to. maby even drive a company into the ground. but even at the highest position possible. their is a limit to what they can do effortlessly and instantly. in eve it appears their is no such limit. it can be done without effort, or any invested time. and that is the problem."
"in empire npc faction space asteroid belts have npc pirate rats (opposites); caldari mostly have guristas, amarr have sanshas etc.in 0.0 pirate faction space asteroid belts have npc pirate rats (similars)?! sanshas have sanshas, guristas have guristas etc.huh?how is it npc pirate factions dominate npc pirate faction space and npc pirate factions dominate empire npc faction space?this means, if you run empire npc faction missions you can re-enforce your efforts by ratting, because ratting contributes to your faction standing.however, if you run npc pirate faction missions, you cannot re-enforce your efforts by ratting, in fact ratting works against your faction standing. please either make the appearance of npc factions (pirate or otherwise) more evenly distributed in all parts of space .. or permit the npc empire factions to invade npc pirate faction space, so you can find amarr rats in sanshas space (with bounties) etc.please even this up. it appears like the empire factions can't police their own territories and quite frankly its not balanced (or fair)."
"no, it doesn't. faction standing is changed by doing missions - standing gain for completing storyline, standing loss for killing mission npcs. ratting only increases your security status and lowers standing to pirate corporation, not faction."
"you're missing the point.if in sansha's nations space, i find sanshas nations rats.in guristas space i find guristas rats.why don't i find caldari rats in caldari space?or amarr rats in amarr space?the point is - in caldari space, i can rat (against pirate faction rats (which i also find in the mission) ..but in pirate faction 0.0 space, if i rat - i lose faction because the rats belong to the faction i'm running missions for. ( i am talking from experience here - i've built up sansha nations faction - but loose it every time i rat)do you recognize this or dispute it?"
"then stop killing sansha rats.: o ) not that hard to figure out."
"eve has sounds?"
"^^^"
"agreed."
"hi, i dont know, if this is the right place to post this problem in, but i didnt find a better one =)i wanted to use the buddy programm to invite a friend, but it seems as the program didnt work.i didnt get an messagt, that the mail is send or anything =(is this program still available ?are some problems known ?how can i use it correctly ?hope you can help me, thanks."
"thanks 2nd post"
"than you've quite simply become my favourite csm! well done."
"i'll be honest, i haven't read this entire thread as i've already read several started by tchell.a thought just occurred to me that i think is original. how about no flagging but salvagers do not work when the wreck is being tractored by someone else.just stops this salvaging out of your tractor beam crap that seems to annoy so many people."
"eve isn't about fairness, i'm afraid. old corps have a right to have an advantage over new and startup corps. that's the way it is.complaining about it won't get you anywhere.also, what? you want to delete t2 bpos from the game?"
"you are confusing eve the game (which is not about fairness, and the game mechanics of eve, which are about balance (or fairness).t2 bpo's unbalance industry. ccp nerfs or balances without any apologies for ships and modules so why not in industry ?someone who skilled one whole year to exploit speed before the speed nerf isn't going to get any sympathy from ccp so why would we make an exception for those corpos that have tken advantage of t2 bpos for the past few years ?so yes, simply erase them."
"while i would like to see t2 manufacturing evened out, your comparison between training and t2 bpos is poor. firstly, those skills trained will benefit any pilot. speed is still an important factor, it's just not the win button that it used to be.second, t2 bpos do not turn an instant profit (unless you're lucky enough to have actually won one in the lottery). you have to recoup the bpo cost and this takes time, certainly longer than a year in many cases.third, balance changes do not remove anything from you. you're talking about stripping away assets worth billions."
"personally it bother me either way. i've done the training, it's in the past. that said, i can not see what the learning skills bring to game other than tedium.someone said earlier that all skill training is boring. not true. waiting for a ship skill to complete has a sense of anticipation, something that draws people in. the learning skills do nothing in this regard.the only caveat is that if they are removed then anyone that has them trained needs to have the ability to reallocate the sp."
"no"
"a key this is most people just don't care beyond info on the next expnasion.another thing is double accounts. there are so many with 2 or more that i think eve actually has roughly 100k \"real\" players."
"as long as our elected officials actually represent their constituency i don't know whether this is a good idea.the constituent has the first responsibility: show up, make your voice heard. a vocal citizenry is the cement of a viable society. the challenge is that many people do not know what they want, cannot voice their concerns / needs in an effective way, are ignorant of subject matter and do not have sufficient information to make a sound decision.the representative has the second responsibility: to faithfully represent, without bias, the needs of their voters. the challenge is that any political official anywhere politics is used will have to find a means to be fair and balanced in a dynamic social context. they can be ignorant too, they also do not have all the information they need and in the great custom of human politics, they can and will be corrupted. some of them will join the process with a private agenda.ccp has the third responsibility: to further their business goals [and trust me that these needs will prevail -always- over any other consideration], they have to listen to player representatives [who may be all of the above], they have to keep the single paying customer in mind when making decisions and continue to be a viable player [excusez le mot] in a dynamic global market in a declining [not to say crumbling] global economy. they have their agenda too. if we see ccp as a benign, disinterested party [which we would be absolutely stupid to] looking out over the further horizon of what new eden will transform into with advancing technologies, changing needs of capsuleers, and competition once this is seen as a viable business model, we can only hope that they adopt a \"greater good\" stance that will try and make the best product for the most amount of people. if they succeed in that the only thing left for the capsuleer and their representative is to make the best out of what the environment has to offer.if the representative in the mean time actually represented the wishes of their voters, it would be more of a democracy than what we see in most of the rest of the world.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"welcome to new eden, the cultural dead zone. we have carebears and people who make an honest living mining ore and building the nuts and bolts that keep new eden moving. we have more or less everything that's needed to build a successful industrial life in the local context but no means to give it any sort of meaningful expression.there is not one cinema in new eden. there are no museums, there are no tourist attractions, there is no bar and although there are exotic dancers, there is not a strip joint in sight.new eden has no cuisine to partake of, no cultural traditions to engage in, there are no exotic markets to go to, there is no art work. nobody builds their own home, nobody visits a library, there is no opera in new eden. it doesn't even have its own beer.of all the third places that have ever had the feeling of a true physical presence, new eden is the only place, except maybe for the astutely monikered sadville, where there is in every sense of the word, room enough to build the rich tapestry of life and weave it into the daily existence of the new eden capsuleer.nobody gets married, there are no children [well, let's not go there], there is no university [that you can actually go to and study in], the only medical facility is a clone vat. the amarr have no place to worship at, there is no military academy for the caldari, the gallenteans need not look for a cosmopolitan place to stay, the minmatar have no junk yard to get scrap metal from and weld it into something they can bolt a porta-potty, a gun port or two and a warp drive onto.there are no astronomical oddities [except for a big worm hole], there are no strange life forms [except the jovians]. there is no fauna, no flora, not one restaurant, not so much as a candy bar \"come over to my place tonight, we'll have blue pills and quafe\". there is no s****y social soiree [the profanity filter must be used to vogon poetry and appears not to understand much about civil human discourse], no stand up comedy, new eden does not have its own songs.until such time as the gossamer threads of life are woven into the cloth of new eden, we shall remain shackled to the basics of subsistence living as miners harvesting the fat of the land, as entrepereneurs building the foundations and as the boorish brutes who murder them.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"supported! i'm happy with my name and wouldn't change it, but can certainly understand others wanting to change theirs.i have plenty of faith in ccp/csm ability to work out the balancing details, so no \"conditions\" on my support here."
"i can say the ability to change a character's name once a year would be a good thing though you would have to be able to search fo a character by their old name or it could be ruthlessly exploited even only once a year as eve is a social game. currently there is the issue that each name in eve is unique and hence a character who's name was changed would take up two spots.so unfortunantly i cannot fully support the ability to change names currently, but do believe it is an issue that there should be discussion on how to answer."
"i want it to happen because i hate roleplaying, actually, ive been called gay for making a girl character and giving her a \"real name\". so im thinking this will be a great solution to my problem"
"fully supported"
"he hewas doing lvl 4 in drake with heavey launchers.bought a raven and fitted cruise launchers.i think i'm going back to the drake, even though it might take twice as long.i'm still playing with fitting the raven; so if anyone knows of a good fit post-nerf that has worked out for you against 6+ webbing / jamming frigates, please share."
"missiles need to be reviewed. i do not think anybody seriously can agree that missiles are currently balanced in their current format.we do not want a return of the torps instapoping a intercepter. what is talked about is reasonable damage vs reasonable shipsizes."
"we'd discussed the topic in the \"features and ideas\" channel, thought i'd post it here for the csms to consider. how about something for the rpers hmm? wouldn't take the devs more than a day to consider and impliment. and it might make for nice a human trafficing industry. the following link contains the discussion:"
"signed."
"t3 exhumers ?"
"what about a 2 stripminer barge with an extra mid and low slot plus a slight buff on the armor, shields and structure. a ship designed for working in more dangerous space."
"umm.....lol what would be the point?--isaac"
"not gonna happen. some people in this game have infinite amount of isk and nothing to spend it on, if they can buy skill points, thats just lol stupid."
"i know what i'm smoking and this idea is still stupid"
"while this is still on the main page, i would urge the 99% of people who have opposed this idea to stop bumping it. it's taking up a slot on the front page just because it's so ridiculous that people keep replying.i would have edited my previous post, but i don't know if anyone would see it."
"friendly bump. or is ccp just hoping all the attention is averted to the bob incident and everyone forgot that our t2 market got hit hard so they dont have to reveal the truth."
"if they were banned, they arnt customers anymore are they ;)"
"my proposal is to give the interdiction field of generators or probes a strength of 1 or 2 like in the usual warp scramblers. if more fields are used the effect could stack. i cant see why those fields have to be all mighty. also it makes no sense....its my believe this would encourage more players to solo pvp because they have a chance to escape from the usual gang bang scenario... the gang bangers would have to use serveral interdictors.. maybe 2-3 ... you see my point...regards"
"they are designed to stop capital ships normally immune to warp disruption effects. they are meant to be strongest warp disruption and thus they won't change.-ix-"
"not a problem to respect that...leave the effect on capitals to be all mighty.. reduce the effect on smaller vessels...cant see why it has to be the way it is....also if it was \"specially\" designed to stop capitals why does it work on small vessels at all... ?does not make sense...an easy solution to this would be a new interdiction field generator item to stop capitals..it would be almighty.. the usual interdiction fields would have then strngth 1-2...regards"
"its already extremely easy to got through any low sec camp."
"since he's talking about the fields, i don't think he means low sec."
"no. hics are fine. quit trying to solo in 0.0 lol. --isaac"
"why does a rocket launcher work on humans if its spec just for vehicles?that is what your asking here its dumb smaller ships are weaker so for the specialized warp dis on heavy int find it very easy to grab hold off one of the small ships and its average for it to grab a cap its commen sence tbh and my next question isdid you make the threahd because one caught you and killed you if so door is that way >>>>>>>"
"no one likes running into a hic or an interdictor.but this proposal is wacked.not supported."
"and by that you mean jump into low sec uncloak and warp to the next stargate.. has nothing to do with pvp or leaving a zone of fully engaged combat....and your argument to proof that would be ? void atm... i will never stop soloing in low sec or 0.0 for that matter....stop watching tv. a rocket will not trigger on a human. the rocket will fly through the body thus maybe killing the victim but thats not the effect you would be looking for at all...also there is no need to be rude....maybe. but again not an argument.. someone try a litle harder...regards"
"let me put it into words your small 3rd grade brain can understand.adapt or die.there are plenty of ways to get around a hic.if you can't figure that out... then you have no business making proposals...this is nothing more than a child whining for retribution for getting ganked."
"hello, hics get a -90% penalty to speed and -80% penalty to thrust when their bubble is up. if you cannot outrun a hic for a few km in order to warp out then you fail at moving your ship.bubble camps are needed in 0.0 in order to defend an area of space. 0.0 is not happy free for everyone land, that is called high security space. if you want something in 0.0 then you have to take it, not whine for mechanics to suit your no risk, carebear attitude."
"supported until more information is revealed."
"then i'll clarify my position: - if i have to chose between skills i should never lose or skills that i will lose when my t3 ship explodes, i will always chose the skills that i will never lose. - if these t3 related skills are trained alongside the regular skills i will want to see the specifics before i decide."
"they are going to be expensive enough, without this, welcome suicide gankers dream. if t3 ships really do this, never owning one, release more engaging content rather than more time sinks.as it stands, mission running is arduous and boring, mining is just annoying, maybe focus on more dynamic stuff in these areas other then go here and kill 40 ships over and over."
"while i would like to see \"official\" confirmation of this, i'm not going to waste any time saying this game mechanic s u x - bung! i don't care how you \"justify it\" within lore or whatever... loosing a trained skill level with the loss of a ship is as redolent as rotting cheese...ak"
"blah blah blah - wait and see what it actually is before lighting the torches ya damn unruly mob! :)"
"i hope those ships are amazing if you lose sp for dieing in them."
"more details are needed but it sounds like the crappiest idea ever. a ship with exp!"
"i don't even know what i'm whining about but i'm whining anyways !!!"
"if losing sp's is true, i wont bother sitting on one, period."
"if you can save your sp by ejecting, then i won't have a problem with it. still, i need to add that these ships had better be very powerful to justify such a risk."
"i'm not going to condone supporting something that doesn't exist yet.i think we should wait before jumping the gun."
"(zapatero e-on issue #014, page 54)from that, it would seem that the 'skill' is lost with the ship but not with the capsuleer. it seems that when the same configuration would be reassembled and used, the new ship would 'learn' the same skills over time.that would be acceptable.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"does that mean that ships will be earning xp? that is great, i will just pimp my battleship in missions without any risk of losing sp, while it becomes more and more powerful. /sarcasm i don't think that we should lose sp, that will reject even more players from using that ships in low/null sec, and t3 ships will be still damn expensive, not to mention with t3 fitting."
"actually, this is a glimpse in the thought processes on t3 space frames. it is not actually a discussion of how the feature is supposed to work, it's something under consideration.now, from a user's perspective this would not bode well. if ccp are indeed [and we don't really know] still debating how the functionality is supposed to work then we're looking at a feature that is not yet fully developed. inevitably this means that the implementation will suffer. discussing how important new features have to work 2 months before roll-out does not inspire a lot of confidence. it may lead to some frowny faces in the short term. i don't doubt that when the developers know more about the impact of the new features in a live environment, they will be able to tune it more to turn it into a seamless experience. the trouble with that is that it will cause unnecessary angst and elevation of blood pressure in some part of the new eden constituency.for developers who have access to a fully-featured test environment where new designs can be tested live, that would actually a sub par performance. they have room for trial and error and to get things right the first time when it is released to the general population.i'm giving ccp the benefit of the doubt here. designing ships with interchangeable components is an exciting twist to the new eden space frame inventory and there is no reason why it could not be a fabulous addition when done right. on the other hand, there appears to be some speculation [in the article i quoted previously] about whether ships like that could have rigs since they can be disassembled. the workaround seems obvious: one or more components could be fitted with rigs and be shipped in an assembled state [one assembled component]. it would be full size, including the rig. it is only when the component was repackaged that the rig would be lost. otherwise, it would be possible to swap out one component to make a different ship, only that component has a rig attached to it. why that appears to be such a big leap of the imagination, i cannot fathom, but i would hazard to say that if i can figure out a better way to make their new functionality work than ccp does [and i doubt it], it does not inspire great confidence in their creative process. -somebody- at ccp figured this one out by now. it's a natural progression. i would expect it to work like that and it would be consistent with the environment.i can't wait for march to roll around.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"this seems like a really good way for ccp to pre-nerf t3 ships to the point of nobody flying them. i don't mind paying a few hundred mill every time i die, because i can keep an isk buffer and be back in another ship reasonably fast, and during that time i can still be training skills. i don't like the idea of being set back a week in both skills and isk every time i die.on of the main things that keeps people playing the game is the almost endless skill tree, but if you can be set back weeks or months on that tree with a single loss, people will certainly stop flying t3 ships in any form of risky situation, and a small minority (not me) may even just give up.so yeah, signed!"
"sorry guys, this issue was voted on and rejected, with just bunyip, vuk and me in favor of it."
"one thing that hasnt been addressed this whole time is why boost the attributes, i'm going to keep harping on this one until someone actually gives an answer. i've seen reasons on both sides in regards to removing the learning skills (which i dont support) but not a single one why to boost attributes once they're gone. so why, if you want them removed so badly don't you just ask for them to be removed and be done with it?"
"they want the attributes boosted to basically take the effect of all learning skills lvl 5.i.e. they want no options to expand your attributes other than implants.by boosting everyones attributes, everyone would train even faster.i see why a lot of these people want the skills removed, i just don't agree with it, and i think it would take away part of the game thats very necessary."
"fully supported."
"isn't it funny how the op can't resist responding to every post?guess he has inferiority complex issues.oh and mr. op... learn to read an encyclopedia... or a dictionary.no wikipedia doesn't count.... especially if it can be edited by anyone and everyone.it's sure as hell no authority..."
"a decent middle ground would be removing the advanced learning skills and refunding the sp invested in them and increasing all base attributes by 5.with this the learning tab would be maxed out with 1536000 sp instead of the ~5mil it currently is.a new player would have to spend only about a week to get nearly the same attributes that a player with v basic and iv advanced skills has now.that said i still don't see the point of having learning skills at all."
"supporting this. it's a needless timesink putting off new players."
"it isnt needless, it only puts off players who are too impatient. too all the people saying \"training learning skills is not fun\" do you think training skills to lvl 5 is fun? no-one forces you to train the learning skills! if you dont want to train them, then dont, you just want and easy game...."
"if they win this little whine-fest the level 5's will be next target of an \"improved skill training\" thread. \"make level 5 skills faster to train! or remove them, even better. they take too long! it discourages new players and makes them quit! sure it's a choice to train to level 5, but it's not a real choice, it's some kinda kitchen utensil! nobody wants to take the time to train level 5, but nodoby wants to feel like they are falling behind. we should have level 5 skills now!\" still not supporting (obviously)"
"i am going to support this."
"i fully support this. learning skills take loads of fun out of eve for new players."
"the reason this dont happen is because of 2 years ago, when you used to warp to 15.there were litterally billions of bm's, and when someone copies 2k bm's it caused severe server lag especially in low sec, think about it. ccp put wtz for a reason. carebears got a boost granted but it was benificial to all cos peeps will always find a way around it. welcome back the bm spam and the nano spam is what will happen.worse idea eva!"
"no. i like to fly solo and dodge gate camps. low sec is alive with low sp pilots in fw, being able to dodge the gate camps. we can even use afterburners! do not support."
"issue is this, for a long time now ccp have made piracy less viable as a profession and less enjoyable as a game style. nerfs i can think of since i originally started playing and pirating: hitpoint buffs agility buffs jump freighters further hitpoint buffs rigs allowing ships to tank a lot more further agility buffs making gates incredibly massive blockades/transports being made very usefuli think the players who started pirating, and well, any pirate who tries it and decides it's not worth the trouble should be given the option to reset their security status, with some restrictions, such as:a) only one reset to 0.0 sec status every year, otherwise people will just use it every time they need a new ship from jitab) it should perhaps some ammount of isk, but not so much that it removes this option for newbie piratesc) any existing kill rights are given an extra 3 months before they expire, and said killrights include podding rights. perhaps make said killrights resuable/tradable.a lot of people don't pvp in low-sec because the security hits that can occur can cause too much hassle later on in the game. if it were not so hard to try this play-style and back out of it if it does not suit - low-sec might be a bit more exciting.newbies who try pirating currently have a very hard time raising their security status, especially if they have to do it in the same space where they are most likey to lose it - low-security space with really, really crappy npcs.ccp are giving players stats roll backs soon (as mentioned by the lead producer on eve tv during alliance tournament today) - so why not help out people who got stuck in a profession that has only ever become less profitable and less enjoyable!"
"supportin' dis"
"not supported - get out to 0.0 and kill some rats."
"simplest way would be to give better sec repairing rats in low-sec, without the higher bounties.none the less, i support such an endeavour."
"hahaha last time i saw you you were camping molden heath with an army of alts hapily ganking haulers. now you are done and need to get back into empire you want the easy ride. if the rest of us can work our sec status up (i did from -9) in a week or two why do we need a change. you commit a crime now pay for it."
"last time i was attacking ships in molden heath and getting security hits for it was over a year ago. i am already back in empire, why not show info me in-game? figure out who my alts are and check them too."
"this"
"word. --isaac"
"bob and everyone else this week, have learned a powerful lesson about world government."
"tldr version = don't pick an moron to be a director... and if he goes missing... yank his powers and put someone else in charge.duh?security 101....you leave the bloody door open... what the frakking hell do you expect.... the inquisition?i'm sure 24 hours of delayed inability to do anything would be quite easily forgiven as opposed to leaving the alliance wide open to sabotage.yes the system is unforgiving and probially not fair.but so is over half the bloody game... get used to it.. i had too with my corp.... this is just a much larger version of losing control of your own team.... metaphorically speaking of course."
"this time it might have been preventable, but in general it isnt. it is not rocket science to make a new alt and infiltrate a random corp/alliance. in time you can become a director and you can screw them over. without any risk to your main, because you used an alt anyway.24 hours is required to kick a single char from a corp in the alliane, but you can disband the entire alliance in 24 seconds? just put in a 24 hour timer in place, or voting for such things."
"now that its been been done against bob to our advantage, i support changing things so nobody else can do it to us to our disadvantage!great idea op!"
"insightful.point is sansha's space has sansha's rats. does caldari space of caldari rats?i think this is the point of the thread."
"no.... its very simple.rat's are pirates... caldari/amarr/minmatar/gallente are not pirates.make sense? yes? no?let's not forget which faction declares what to be a rat.that one being one of the 4 empire factions and concord most of all.your trying to make a system far more complicated for the sake of making it easy."
"the mining-day device.fitable only on titans, can mine out an entire belt instantly.it would compress ore to about half of its original size, and would quadruple a titans cargo-holdit would prevent warp for 5 minutes, and would drain the titan of all cap.edit: fitta is a bad word?"
"after a long thought and consideration i have decided to show support for this topic."
"o_owhat drugs are you on again?"
"sorry....but....this is totally unneeded. we have a rorqual for a reason. --isaac"
"want to try again with the isd news link, xhagen? all i'm getting is a \"site not found\" when i try."
"not to mention that t2 prices will skyrocket to unseen heights if all t2 comes from invention."
"how about getting a clue about game mechanics ?"
"the other day we killed this ship:"
"supported with all my lifeforce!"
"that's the saddest thing i've read all day."
"lol man, its true though"
"....."
"bump"
"sorry i don't agree with this. something has to be done, but this is massively over-complicating the entire system. i preferred nyphur's solution."
"/signedi would like to see that to do list, this would give us more info on what they consider important, or at least what they intend to work on"
"ambulation is a marketing issue, pos overhaul a gameplay issue.nobody requested ambulation, it was a decision from ccp. pos overhaul is long being requested by the playerbase ..."
"csm doesnt seem having any balls, and are looking like puppets of ccp. its something going on for years. keep hammering ccp about it. if they see us as spoiled children so be it. without us they would be out of the job.csm re-unite and go with pitchforks and torches, to the next csm meeting. just bring it up time after time after time until they get crazy."
"will there be a chance that in the revamping ... we'll actually see empire faction rats distributed in 0.0 npc faction space?"
"stealth bombers that can't warp while cloaked don't sound very stealthy to me - the enemy will always see you warp in, unless you've just been sitting there the whole time by yourself. just sayin'.of course, i suppose it would be a bit over-powered to let a bomber warp in cloaked, drop a bomb, cloak immediately then warp off - perhaps there could be a warp delay after dropping a bomb (but not a cloaking delay).i have also never quite understood why a missile / bomb would fail to detonate when the bomber cloaks / warps away / explodes. seems rather silly, this should be fixed for all missile ships, not just the bomber."
"i'd like to see sb missiles hit after the sb cloaks.i'd like to see sb actually able to kill frigates again."
"a single director can not force a corp to war, but disband an entire alliance?bad game design."
"already expressed my reasons in another thread. supported."
"what if i want the ability to disband my alliance. imagine if i am alone in my own corp as ceo, and my corp is the executor or my alliance. the alliance was formed under me and i am king. do i not have every right to kick corps from my alliance, then close it myself?too much power? maybe. but what i created the alliance myself. i'd argue that i alone have the right to control the status of my organization and can disband it as i please.ccp should examine other forms of alliance organization other than executor control (high council, democracy, etc.) without removing but rather including the option of the current dictatorship model.for example: types of factionsnpc faction (amarr, caldari, etc.)player allianceplayer empireplayer federationplayer democracyplayer tribeeach with their own mechanics that govern power structures so that players have choices instead of being forced to work around \"fixes\"."
"sure. you should just have to wait 24 hours and if no other director cancels it then you are fine. in this case there is no other director so that's that.sorry if waiting 24 hours seems a pain but you made an alliance...you can deal with that hassle and is no worse than a lot of other things we have to wait for in eve."
"it sends shivers down my spine to agree with a goon.but he is right."
"supported. minmatar tourists will have a better life serving their true masters."
"what she said. would be fun if slaves could be turned in to the minmatards for an lp a piece, and if non-slaved could be turned in to the amarr for the same reward. i suppose this could open up a true slaver profession."
"this one has been up so many times..my take is.. do it already ccp...make it a cool rp feature and mission based or similarlp yielding.. and we have a regular american revolution state.. boiling.."
"something needs to be done, yup. this bit made me laugh, though:"
"woah!no so fast here folks. lets think about this for a second.the ability to free slaves .. means slave availability goes down.slave availability goes down supply goes down.supply goes down .. what happens to the aggregate supply and demand model?that's right .. price goes up!we start freeing slaves, and we could be playing havoc with the whole finely tuned market system. we have no idea what impact that could have globally .. not to mention empires that rely on both slave labour and slave trade.not such a great idea now - is it?"
"slavers should clone themselves and make slaves of their low grade clones..that would be poetic justice..non serviam!"
"while i'd argue that low sec isn't low sec--it's \"less sec than much of 0.0\"--treating 0.4 differently that 0.3 has never made any sense to me."
"yea and why cant fighters be deligated in a 0.4? (or has that changed now?)"
"i *think* the reason it works this way is that the game is programmed to only allow low sec only activities in a 0.4 and below. thing is the true-sec of a system is always something above 0.4 (like 0.413 or something). as such the game sees that as above the 0.4 cut off and you need charters and so on.at least that is what i was told once upon a time. could be totally wrong and in the end doesn't matter because i agree with the op it is stupid.supported!"
"supported. moon mining, refining arrays, etc. should all be allowable in .4 space.i thought this was the case as well, until i tried to anchor moon mining arrays in a .37 sec system.see, i thought that the 'security restriction .4' information on the info box meant, 'anchorable in .4 and below', not 'cannot anchor in .4 and above'. silly me. i should have known better."
"how exactly to you propose to solve this problem?perpetual gm audits of all char bio and corp data?ccp reps in every system and created channel to enforce the current chat rules? it isn't possible, life is hard deal with it, people shouldn't be discriminated against but there is no law that says you can't offend people."
"so if someone says all jews are scum or something in their bio you don't think there should be taken any action?"
"let the community take action, but when we start crying to the devs every time we see something we don't like we pull resources away from other areas of the game, newsflash, people do things like that because of the reaction it draws. if it becomes to much of a hassle for ccp they will just limit players ability to effect the sandbox not police the sandbox."
"not supported! would prefer old player and people who buy isk."
"nonono no way real life money should impact on players more than it already does!!!not supported"
"not supported"
"just smoking? i think he was experimenting with better life through chemistry in a variety of ways.no!!!!! not supported. need a thumbs down for this one."
"between this, and t3 on sisi, i'm getting the feeling they're hoping it drops off the radar.i hope i'm wrong though"
"thats supposed to be an argument? if your are not able to supply one you should realy not reply to this or any matter.its easy to turn your argument around and say your just convenient the way it is that doesnt mean its good for everyoneor a larger part of the players or eve itself. sure its easy to outrun a single interdictor but that is not whats happening. the moment you single encouter someone you get gang/fleet jumped and are dead within seconds without a chance of retreat. it should be possible to solo pvp 3 enemy vessels and at least have a chance.its easy to prove ccp is on my side with that or a ship like the golem would not exist.i am just wondering if they are aware of the whole solo pvp issue....regards"
"there's nothing wrong with hic's, and its nothing to do with hic's if u get get gangbanged. a hic is there for tackling, if it tackles you then it most likely has backup somewhere as they dont do much dmg on their own"
"bubble's are a part of what makes 0.0 what it is. it is very possible to beat a bubble camp, even a very large one, with the right ship and experience. pilots in unfriendly 0.0 space who are not in scout-type ships and/or do not know how to beat a bubble should not move solo. larger, slower ships should always have a scout flying, and jumping through gates, ahead of them. it is the scouts job to find out if there's a camp (with our without a bubble) on the other side of the gate. i know this because i am the primary scout for my corp. it's a very fun job. i run into bubbles and camps frequently, and i really don't see a need to nerf the heavy 'dictors."
"if this made any sense at all, i would gladly respond, but you fail to understand english as well as game mechanics. the golem was designed for pve, not pvp. it's also called using a scout/map, but i guess basic military strategy is completely lost on you. omg, i just responded to random words that made no sense, god this thread sucks."
"hic's are probably one of the most balanced and best designed ships in game. great for lowsec and tackling supercaps rather bleh for everything else."
"actually bc are the most balanced and best designed ships. hics are just t2 cruiser that make one useless mod even more useless."
"pot calling the kettle black much? ships are designed for what you use them for, yes there is a tractor beam bonus on marauders, but their \"intention\" was extended stays deep in enemy territory, using the rats to supplement their supplies in enemy space (along with their sizeable cargo). i've seen many many marauders used and quite effectively in pvp situations."
"one of the problems eve has is the excess of isk in circulation.proposal:newbies can only stay in a newbie corp for 3 months, after which they are kicked out.players with no corp can be \"wardecced\" for a nominal free - this lets us hunt the solo carebears.additionally, lower corp and alliance wardec fees to increase the number of empire wardecs.result:a more fun and exciting eve. :d"
"scaling tax rate in npc corps please; the longer you are in them, the higher your tax rate gets with something like a 50% cap."
"why 50%? a 90% cap makes more sense.0% for the first 3 months while you get started. 10% tax increase every month after.it's silly that people can hide in npc corps with no risk - at least this way they're forced into the \"real world\" of eve.(edit: your idea is a better compromise than mine - but a 50% tax cap is too low.)"
"this is the weakest incarnation of this idea i've seen yet. most people \"hiding\" in npc corps do not make their money from bounties, since the bounties in high sec are laughable.as for driving people out of npc corps, i disagree with anyone who trys to force people to play the game the way they want. in any case, even if you impose penalties, you'd just have a rash of people paying the cheap fee to start 1-man corps. like we don't already have enough of those.not supported the first 8 or 9 times this was suggested. not supported now."
"hide where? you are aware that you can kill anyone anytime anywhere if you wish to invest sufficient isk in that. what better isk drain do you need?or you wish isk drained from others and not from you?"
"no way!bring back the ability to join npc corps. i would so join quafe!"
"hahahahahahahahahehehehohohohohohahahahahaare you serious?seriously.... is that the best you can come up with for justification of nerfing npc corp? isk circulation?well gee golly wiz... let's get goonswarm in here and ask them how much isk they have in there coffers... hell... the alliance tournament.... one of the corps literally jacked the market to help win the tournament.that has to be the most hilariously stupid idea i've seen yet for justifying npc corp nerfing.and that's just the tip of the iceberg.i'm getting off this boat before it sinks!"
"into the breach once more my friend."
"i second the original post. whether it would be a gaming penalty (wardec) or tax penalty, npc companies should alway be a second choice to outright pc corps. otherwise it would violate the sandbox idea of eve."
"hey... there's room on the lifeboat... don't get sucked down in the sinking ship!"
"well frankly, ideas like this, which are tried and fail, are a nice breather. at least after the debacle of the \"abolish learning skills\" crap.in any case, the last time this was proposed, the idea was more complex, allowing people in npc corps to pay a monthly fee in higher and higher increments to stay in an npc corp.all of these ideas fail in the sense that you can't force people to move into 0.0"
"ho, another whine thread for easy targets...."
"you can't force people to 0.0, true, but you can force them into a real corp."
"you can also eat pooh.. doesnt mean you should..force is a bloody bad way to do anything especially when entertainment is your goal..the incentives should be that playing in player corps is way more fun, and a way to reach that goal would be to remove the covering under npc flag option. switching corp is all good, but jumping back and fourth to npc and pc corps is a gameflaw..fix standing issues, and aggression... and make solo play fun but not financially viable.."
"this."
"confirmed on eve tv by lead game designer that if you lose a tech iii ship you will lose one of the skills required to fit the upgrades. similar to if you lost a shield rigged drake and lost shield rigging..the skills are going to be only rank 1, but still. i think it is a stupid idea.they claim the reason being is that isk is no longer an issue so they need to add more penalties to dieing, well, you know what.. that's stupid because not everyone has bottomless wallets like they say.. and if they did the better solution would be to make it harder to make isk.signed. ccp you ruin a good thing."
"again, devs stated in the forums that this functions is subject to change or removal depending on feedback. and until we've seen it in it's entirety, how can we really judge if it's a good or bad mechanic?"
"no way i'm going to risk losing skills even if the battle advantages are better, i'm already quite angry as it is when i lose a ship because of dc/desync!!!"
"skills already take to long to train. there isn't even a way to grind it out and catch up with older players. do not want loss of skillpoints/skill levels."
"i'm not willing to pass judement on this until i see it. some pilots are willing to pvp wearing expensive implants while using faction-fitted ships. some pilots are unwilling to enter .4 or lower space at all. there's a huge variation in the amount of risk people are willing to take in this galaxy. on the surface, i don't see a problem with adding a new \"high-risk\" level for those who like to push the envelope."
"we need to object now loudly and vociferously while it still can be changed!!!! or ccp will just get stubborn and dig their heels in and start their techno whine about how difficult it is to change."
"loud noises!ps: i love lamp."
"on eve-tv the dev said that if you eject from your ship then you side-step the skillpoint loss (as it currently stands so if you know your ship is going down bail out and you'll be fine sp-wise).for those who did not see the interview some things are worth pointing out:1) you will not lose skillpoints out of your current list of skills. you will only lose skillpoints in the new and relevant skills to piloting a t3 ship.2) you will step back one level in your highest skill from the above list.3) he said these skills would be rank-1 so train fast and at worst you lose maybe 5 days of training.4) ccp's reason for this was to give you another reason to really care about your ship beyond its monetary value.make of all that what you will. i am not supporting the op since we just do not know and have to wait and see how it works in practice."
"omg!that sisi patch is 1gb in size...ho-hum long download........................"
"on 3: that is 5 days of training maximum, -per- time a ship is lost. i cannot afford that.on 4: that is an insane idea. of course i -care- about my ships. a ship that has these consequences to a loss [and, indeed, we have to reserve judgement until we have more hard information] is not one i'm going to buy [unless the advantages vastly outweighed the cost].\"caring about losing a ship\", if that is truly how ccp thinks about it, bespeaks a material weakness in how the eve universe is built. it lacks good ideas and comes up with nebulous concepts to fill a philosophical goal. never a good sign.new eden is a real, harsh universe [i have a rich history of ships that have been reduced to their component parts to prove it]. it must be possible to devise a coherent and internally consistent rationale for how things work and why things are done a certain way. if we go beyond that we're in the magic realm of fairy tales and mushrooms. ships with interchangeable components: great, awesome idea. a vague notion of why skills should be lost or why it is important to care more about the loss of one ship over another is pure nonsense.and again: until we see it with our own eyes and get a real appreciation for how things work in the harsh light between the stars, we can't make a final conclusion [but i certainly love to speculate].abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"/agreethey turn an awesome idea (modular t3 ships) into crap."
"well...5 days if you have it trained to l5.i admit i do not relish the thought of re-training a skill. that said it might be interesting. l4 is *almost* as good as l5 and l4 can be trained in a day or so on this. it could be interesting that the pilots you face are not simply *done* with leet skills no matter how many sp they have. maybe they got popped a day before and have lost a bit of that edge.just thinking out loud but it does seem to make the playing field a bit more flexible or at least interesting.could be. i think in this age of pvp ships are being largely viewed as disposable due to the massive income earning potential. consider how many cap ships bob and goons go through not to mention sub-cap ships. even with bob (err...the allilance formerly known as bob) having the rug yanked from under it and having 20+ cap ships stolen they seem to be hanging in there fine. yeah for some people self-financing or buying fancy faction ships and mods things get pricey but on the whole losing ships is more an inconvenience than anything else.ccp (i think) is looking for something else besides your pocketbook to make you care. if you think about it this is functionally no different than, say, ships having a crew which perform better with experience so if your ship pops you lose that experienced crew and the next ship is staffed by a noob crew. lots of games have something like that as a mechanic and you care more about your units (or whatever) that have \"levelled up\".again, just thinking out loud and playing devil's advocate as food for thought. i do not all know what is in ccp's mind of course and i have no clue how this will really play out. as you say we kind of have to wait and see. i am with you that on the face of it this seems like a bad idea but who knows?"
"if eve were a game where losing a ship simply meant respawning and getting a new one for free, then losing a bit of skill every time you die wouldn't be an issue.however, this is not the case. currently we all lose isk, and if previous new ship releases are any indication, these ships will be horrendously expensive. the loss of sp's on top of losing a horribly pricey ship is a bit much for me. at least in my trusty ole deimos and updated clone i won't have to lose precious training time."
"well i hope these new ships will be better bang for the buck than lolblackops or pve-marauders.especially when losing skill points. i dont mind losing some sp, it's not like you gonna fly them everyday and lose sp everyday. just dont screw the ships before they are in the game"
"justification..mmmm with gun modules that replicate fall off, accuracy range , optimal range, firing rates etc, isnt that making the game as realistic as possible?so ramming would just be an another realism enhancement , loss of sp`s cannot be a consideration, but loss of ship insurance yes, you deliberatly destroyed your ship so insurance is null and void, just like in real life ,that would put off most who would abuse this and gank everyone , they would run of ships very quickly; as for you being killed, that would depend on ship explosion radius/damage.its an idea that many would like in the game :)"
"right...\"many people\". must be mutes and can't type as i really don't see any support for this topic. however,ccp judges what is \"realistic\" and what isn't. obviously ship ramming wasn't considered realistic to ccp so they didn't add it. i feel there is a lot more important issues than being able to ram your ship into another. disregarding the complexity of this idea and the fact that suicide ganking would triple in high-sec if this were released....so no. --isaac"
"well basically a shielding strong enough to stop the weaponry ingame should have no real problems stopping collisions.."
"i could also agree with a skill that while we could just have 11 itens/ships on build simultaneus, it would allow us to place 11 more in quew to be built as the others would finish!"
"i'm all for it although i agree with the poster above that it would be too easy for a few players to dominate all the slots in a given area. so, more station slots and go with the op as well. that or increase pos slot usage. if you have gone to the trouble of having your own pos then it seems there should be some added benefit."
"perhaps this has been brought up before and if so i apologize for repeating it (i have not seen it but that does not mean anything).over and over i find the 1500m range at which you can access items to always be *just* shy of what i would like. when looting a can being tractored behind me it tends to float just in and out of range (i am moving around quickly too...yes i could stop or slow down but it is a hassle). in particular though when running my pos no matter how i configure the silos/reactors/whatever it is almost impossible to sit on one spot and access all of them. as such i have to move 20m one way then 40m the other to access all of them.i am not proposing a huge change. just make it 2000m and i think it'd be fine. i understand it should not be too large a range but i do not see that as unbalancing."
"supporting my own idea."
"give them an inch... they take a foot.not supported."
"lol...well at this rate i can ask for another 500m increase in 2015."
"well i know my timing might be totally off, because ccp has most likely invested a ton of time and money in the new tutorial system..when a new player logs onto eve, or any player for that matter, the first thing he sees is a list of job offerings. this list is the eve personal adds. with jobs and other weirdness. these are bought weekly by corps at set prices. (xml like format preferably)the player sees an opening for miners and clicks to see details about the corp offering the job.he then goes to character creation and creates the needed miner. he is then directly injected into the player corp, and a notifictation is send to ceo and hr members.this way the tutorial would not really be needed as players would teach new players all they need to know.my honest impression is that eve is to different and strange to actually create any menaingfull tutorials. rather have ccp created or supported really good instructional videos for players to watch..."
"i gotta disagree - a tutorial where you actually do the stuff that is being taught is far more effective than one where you watch a video of the stuff being done."
"nothe last thing we need is to force new players into a corp where they should be free to make that choice on there own.tutorials should be showing you how to play the game... not bypassing the npc corp system for the sake of some unforeseen reason by a very obvious biased hidden opinion.however... the system you propose would be most useful if it was completely isolated and treated as a separate feature.... but it should never be forced upon the player."
"i am simply stating that i know players that leave the game to early because they never get a grasp of its workings.. also a lot of players really hate tutorials.. i do however agree that it might be preferable if its optional..entering eve hasnt exactly become easier .."
"i know of players who leave the game due to greifers... not because they don't grasp the workings of the game.i'm quite sure they understand all to well how eve works on the surface... they just don't take the time to dig a little deeper... and sorry to say... joining a corp wouldn't change that.... all they would have to do is join a noob corp and then they get war-dec'ed and your right back where you started."
"oh but trust issues and griefing aside, my statement was about players that find the experience of eve a bit overwhelming. as it stands eve is rather tough to enter, and if you look at the player base its kind of \"elitist\".. the age and geekyness in here is considerable and without a few aids it wont change, and get the appeal to a wider audience.in all honesty us geeks might have only one character flaw.. we are not good at sharing our toys.. we like to keep them to us selves and those that cant hack it are just to dumb. however in this case i think in the long run eve can cater and serve a wider range of players.. and the trend is already on the way..this suggestion was directed at that issue..grief and wardecs belong in other threads, and i am not disregarding your claim.."
"problem's still here, petitioned, got a reply, working *slowly* on solutions now, haven't logged into eve the past 3 days."
"just wandering if it would be possible to make this?it cant be that hard, and its really nice and usefull in channels..maybe put it on the list with afk and similar status settings?"
"my suggestion is to make defender missiles more useful by making them more versatile.right now they make little to no sense. yet they could be much more useful if they were not just useless against missiles, but useful for anything else. drones, for example. is there really a difference (in the eyes of a defender missile) between a hostile missile and a drone?if defender missiles would be useful way to defend against drones in the immediate vicinity, they could end up being used at least by some people."
"yeah...maybe you could make suggestions on making them more useful? otherwise this thread was more pointless than me typing a reply to it. --isaac"
"read again, read again and then read again. you might find a suggestion hidden in the epic masses of my post. okay, i should not have written so much, i know.i think what i really wanted to say is: make defender missiles a viable weapon not only against missiles, but also against drones."
"problems with defenders are that they are not viable against missiles . and for drones there's always fofs. but really, would you sacrifice a high slot only to take out your opponents drones, reeeeeeally slowly?"
"hmm i tend to agree that more defense like these could be needed.defenders are missile to missile if i am not mistaken.there could be the addition of point defense gun ammo..chaffs for bomb launcher..drone scrambler for the scanner launcher..many nice new ways to defend.."
"i had an idea for a defender missile fix last summer, and it seemed to go over fairly well. basically, it'd make them more versatile by letting people defend each other, as well as smoothing out the numbers so you have reason to defend with things other than a rocket launcher. the thread is 90locked now, but maybe you'd be interested in incorporating some of it into your suggestion. also, thumbs-up for a generic \"make defenders not suck\"."
"empire is full of labs / manufacturing facilities with no slots avail. not all corps or people can build their own pos, yet there is a need for more slots. fix it so a corp with a pos can allow remote access to their open slots. this would help make pos economically feasible and help those without reliable access."
"i bet it's just too much work, though."
"sounds like a good option."
"this issue was already raised with ccp and is on the drawingboard"
"i seem to recall ccp saying it couldn't be done. if it can, i'm all for it, but don't get your hopes up."
"tack on \"rental\" fee and you got my vote.if its doable."
"i can has linkage?"
"bump"
"i think and at least hope this will be part of the whole cosmo overhaul..so i can be patient till all that magic gets here.."
"i know this has been brought up before.it would really make a great gamemechanic if we had an incapacitated state on ships.so when you would normally be destroyed the ship would simply be incompliant, and unable to move, target or anything for a period of time. i would suggest something size based for incapacitation times. thus a frig would be so for 1-5 minutes, and maybe a titan for 10-50 minutes.once incapacitated you would in rp sense be making emergency repair, and be able to limp from a battle.the opponent could always simply keep attacking, and thus end you. the point is to get better negotiation and prolonged combat options.you could still have highpaced killing, you would simply have to retarget and make the coup de grace.also this would make it possible to maybe save and intervene in combat, in a rather interesting fashion."
"was hoping this would come into playwhen ccp give us (if at all) subsystem targeting."
"huh?web + scram + ecm.yes it can still use fof missiles and drones (sort of), but these mechanics exist."
"i would support this if the ship was completey dead in the water and unable to repair itself without external assistance."
"it is a cool idea but its not vere evely. it really doesnt seem to serve a purpose. if i were engaged in small fleet combat and a ship was incapped i would order that a point and web be put on him and just kill him after we do away with his friends. the only real thing i see is the victor may be not have lost as many ships which is allways a good thing. would need a game mechanic reworking and a little bit more substance."
"there is also the potential in there of actually capturing ships..and warfare would maybe end up differing from pirating with something like this.."
"meh just blow the ship up... this extra not dead stage only gives you longer to cry for blob backup while dying.instead lets go the other way, when your ship is dead your pod dies instantly.fair tradeoff? noyeah well dont want your idea either"
"interesting idea... likening to ion cannons in star wars... disabling the ship to capture or just hold it hostage.problem with that is no one would ever use it or care about it.too easy to demand the pilot to eject and take the ship anyway.i would only support it if there ship was completely incapacitated for a limited time with only 2 functions available..... eject... or self destruct.. for obvious reasons.top that off with the fact that a friend could \"jump start\" a ship or something."
"was exactly the point. incapacitate for a set time, or reducible by a remote hull rep or similar. also the option to leave ships lying around for other players to scavenge by repairing and picking them up..and yes only options in an incapacitated ship would be eject, or self destruct.. or wait for time out to jumpstart it your self.oh and they could be salvageable in this state, so you would first salvage them into a wreck and then salvage the wreck after that.. (balanced ofc)"
"hello,as we are a corp that does extortion/merc work i've often had the following question, \"what guarantees do we have that if we pay you will stop?\"the answer should be the cease fire agreement pact (surrender button?), where the two ceos meet in the same station and open a trade/contract thingy where they agree to the terms of the cease fire.the attacking faction should declare for how much time it cannot go back to war against that corp/alliance (maximum a couple of months) and what it asks for (as in a contract it could involve isk or stuff that the guy surrendering has said could be used instead of isk or whatnot)the surrendering faction should then review and accept the contract wich would automatically transfer ownership of isk (corp wallet to corp wallet) and/or assets.thus the carebears can feel completely safe(maybe only in high sec where the pact prevents the war from being declared for x time, but leaves people all the non war ways of killing), in accepting a surrender (stop killing us plz we pay) and we pvpers have a nice way of imposing their demands.support or no support?"
"i'd agree to this, would even give wis a use."
"a declares war on b.b surrenders, get's 8 weeks immunity from a.a forms new corp c for one million isk, transfers assets.c declares war on b.too easy to work around."
"other than the obvious flaw.... its a good idea.. but the glaring flaw makes it hard to support."
"yeah sure, why not give everything to everyone for free right now.like someone rightly remarked: next the lvl 5s, then anything over rank 8, so best do everything in one go right now.no more waiting for skills to finish, only \"fun\" left. no postponed rewards, just instant gratification.very bad idea imo. not supported.\"if possible, vets should have the skillpoints refunded and allow them to place it wherever they want. if that is to technically complicated, then just remove them.\" thann thanks for completely disregarding the months i put in training them. ofcourse vets wont be upset if you just take 5mil sp away, and give advantage to people who did not have the patience and long-term planning to train them.edit: and this"
"gona support this"
"do you even know why they made warp to 0? bm's = lag (from what i heard anyway, i didn't start playing till warp to 0 was an option)do you know how many people would make bm's to warp to 0?a shyte ton thus meaning it would be 4yrs ago again in eve. eve is not a sci-fi movie tis a game and if a ship were to exit out of warp right at the station chances r ship ends up in station, and not to mention that eve is a game and not a movie.edit: i do not support this"
"this is why warp to 0 was implemented"
"this, highlighted the important bit & signed."
"do you have a source for that?"
"signed"
"supported more as a \"there has to be a better mechanic that ratting for this\" suggestion.not the wording: better, not quicker or easier. i don't like the idea of paying your sec clean, but i'd like to see the csm investigate the sec status mechanic more closely and see if a better solution can be derived from their discussions."
"i fully support this."
"it surprised me greatly that a director in the holding corp could disband the alliance. it just never occurred to me. what happened, happened within the game mechanics, and is over and done with. that said, i feel there should be an apparatus similar to unlocking a bpo in corps, a 24 hour wait on confirmation if you will. even with that, there would be a possibility of someone erasing an alliance, but the possibility would be there. but, the probability would drop greatly."
"from the mitanni mp3...theres no bob towers, which means theres no sovereignty for bob (so complete regions are wiped out in an instant)\"they just lost every jumpbridge that they have\"\"they just lost every sov for a capital\"\"they wont be able to have a jumpbridge for the next month\"\"they wont be able to have a sov 4 for 3 months\"\"they wont have any cyno jammers\"all at a click of a button? i think everyone is fine with eve being a harsh world, or go find another game tbh. the above seems out of line with this though. it takes months / years to build something up. it takes months to go to war to take that away from an alliance with logstics, planning, resources etc. all required. but all of this can be bypassed by one person by one (or two) clicks with no time period and no one can intervene. votes (as with most things) should be needed.the irony of this people complain about \"an entire fleet being wiped out by a single button\" when talking about titans (notably goonswarm doing the complaining), but they cheer the \"wiping out an entire alliance with a single button\". the mechanics are very different, but the concept is the same. so i am suprised to see the alliances in here defending the ability to wipe out an alliance are the same ones who want to see titans taken out of the game.bob, goons, tcf, ra etc. doesn't matter the alliance that it happens to. there seems to be lacking a balance to this ability. even if the founder of the alliance goes off the reservation, all ceo's of the alliance should get the vote."
"actually it is 2 x # of corps in the alliance but that still pretty easy, plus a few more for looting the alliance wallets and the holding corp wallets and hangars. though this probably still didn't take more than 30 minutes a mere pitance in time for the devastation it caused."
"you seem pretty clueless ... but on the assumption you're not trying to be a troll ..if rats are pirates .. then pirates are taking over empire space because you find them in caldari/amarr/minmatar/gallente space.seems caldari/amarr/minmatar/gallente can't control their space.but rats are also found in non caldari/amarr/minmatar/gallente space.make sense?didn't think so."
"i have to addmit too that empire or high sec starts to be to crowed, not yet over but soon. i dont know that is in the game that kind dynamic system that solarsystem<U+FFFD>s security level is not stabile. i think that sec level should be dynamic, like when 0.5 system has lot of ppls and there is 0.4 side of if, that 0.4 should rise to 0.5 in time. areas where is no ppls for a long time, should drop also.at 0.0 this should be faster because now some corps/alliances just keep 0.0 areas and collect \"fruits\" from there. so getting higher sec level, spawns, complex and so on would get worse and not so good. so that way habited areas would go deeper and deeper in time. if more ppls starts playing, high sec area would expand but also get small, if ppls just stop playing or being in that area.imho: in next upgrade, 0.5 sec level rise to empire solar systems, so in there those place what are over 4.5 should turn to safe space and would also give more space to ppls. everyone can not go explore 0.0 or these new wormhole placies, but getting some new 0.5 for live would be nice. also those who have pos in high sec, have to get more standings or find new place for pos from lower sec system. these pos in 0.4 system should also give huge boost to system sec level, so it would turn high sec even faster."
"why was the lotto dropped in first place? i worked for a year to improve my lotto chances only to have the lotto dropped. i really get upset over this. there are those with t2 bpo's that have an advantage i will never have even a chance at. it's not right. invention costs to get a bpc, and the bpo holders pay nothing to generate bpc's. i hate it when games, eve isn't alone, give unfair advantage to older players by nerfing stuff for the younger ones while leaving it intact for the older players. to use the ship analogy, how would you like it if they nerfed armor for instance, but only for players younger than 2 years?"
"if you want to have such a forum for players to prioritize, go for it - it will see use, and it'll have some merit. but be aware of the reason why you're elected representatives instead of just random players - forum whining has proven to be a bad system. if representatives carry through on the platform that they were elected on, then voters have to make one decision per election period and have the ability to go back to their games knowing that someone who thinks like they do is in charge. the more input you offer people, the fewer will take advantage of it, and the more you wind up heeding the opinions of the loudmouth geeks(like me) instead of average players. voter percentages may be low, but they're way higher than you'll get for something like this. you're opening yourself up to a loudocracy(for lack of a better word) again - players may want to vote once per six months when you advertise the crap out of it, but how many will vote when it's poorly advertised on a small forum and is three times as often? you'll get some hundreds, but that's not the several thousands who voted for you to represent them. it narrows the decision-makers severely, which gets us back to the old system in some ways. that isn't a criticism, per se - i think that this would probably be a good thing on the whole. but be aware of the drawbacks - we elect representatives so we don't have to do everything ourselves. be careful what you delegate back to us - accountability is good, but a tsunami of minutia is bad. this is on the right side of that line, i think, but be cautious."
"council of stellar managementmeeting minutesdownload: pdf | raw log pdfsunday 9th february 2009present: ankhesentepemkah, bunyip, darius johnson, extreme, issler dainze, lavista vista, meissa anunthiel, omber zombie, scagga laebetrovo, sophie daigneau, tusko hopkins, vuk lauapologies: pattern clarci. announcements / electionsnoneii. popular issuenoneiii. discussioni)ui s&i interface improvementsin raw text from [ 2009.02.08 16:18:06 ]lavista introduced the issue.bunyip thought that introducing batch jobs would result in an all-or-nothing case of success/failure occurring with invention jobs.oz and lavista pointed out that it was batch jobs in the sense that it installed them all in one go rather than installing them all as one job. the batch process is a time saving measure not a mechanic change.meissa wanted it to go further in not requiring confirmation of ingredients.ankhe wanted it noted that the interface is currently very unintuitive and unfriendly to newer players.vote: 9-0 passii) tracking formula changesin raw text from [ 2009.02.08 16:26:20 ]ankhe introduced the issue.bunyip thought it would help boost long range weapons while still providing a good avoidance mechanic for small ships using transversal.ankhe thought bunyip meant close range weapons.bunyip pointed out that no, due to the mechanic change it would mean long range weapons would have less penalty for their minimum range.tusko questioned the point of the issue, wondered if it was just another boost my ship issue, and then pointed out hes never had issues hitting a battleship at close range. he went on to wonder whether if it really was an issue or just someone wanting to fix eve physics.ankhe answered that it was several things; being able to hit battleships with mid/long range weapons, blasters/autocannons losing damage due to web changes, and the eve physics  she doesnt think they are realistic and would be more fun if they were.tusko asked why we should be looking at boosting long range weapons as that would reduce the value of blasters even more. he doesnt see why making longrange guns work at close range would help the game. he followed by asking if anyone had issues tracking battleships with close range guns.ankhe answered that she had missed an npc machariel with her blasters.bunyip commented that blasters still put out more dps, this change would allow you to hit more often for closer targets, so it boosts blasters too.vuk noted that even with his skills he has trouble doing a lot of damage with his blasters since the web changes.issler noted she hadnt had much issue with the current system and thinks the issue is just a balance issue in disguise.ankhe conceded that since it did change weapons stats that it was a balance thing.tusko asked if these changes meant that the way sig radius was calculated that the larger the ship the easier they would be to hit?ankhe answered that yes, it should make them easier to hit the larger they are.continued in next post"
"...oz wondered if the changes meant that if a battleship was close to any ship smaller than it, pretty much every shot against it would hit meaning higher chances of wrecking shots.ankhe wasnt sure how wrecking shots were calculated, tusko thought it was chance based, and that they shouldnt be wrecking all the time.oz thinks that the tracking formula doesnt need changing and that the proposed change would break pvp. this proposal changes the fundamental way that tracking works and if there is a tracking issue it should be raised as that as this fix will not accomplish the proposed goal.ankhe did not think it would have anywhere near the impact oz thought.tusko pointed out that the threads had 2 proposed solutions, the one that changed signature radius had no real merits as it was not causing the stated issue. he was still not sure if the change was needed at all as those that know the mechanics work around the issue without mechanic changes.vote: 3-6 fail (yes votes were vuk, ankhe and bunyip)iii) alliance mechanic changesccp asked csm to discuss them due to recent events.csm generally agreed that the mechanics needed fixing and the following solutions were proposedvuk: thinks that actions should be voted upon by executor ceo and shareholders.tusko: partially agrees with vuk, actions should be voted on, however without a strict 24hour timer. if the vote achieves a 50% majority it should immediately go into effect.issler: a full director vote should be required.darius: is happy for all mechanics to be moved to ceo of executor corp only, no directors.oz: alliance should come in 2 flavours, dictatorial or democratic/communist (call it whatever you like)dictatorialceo of executor corp * can add/remove member corps - 24 hours from button being pressed to take effect, can be cancelled at any time within that 24hours * can disband alliance - 24 hours from button being pressed to take effect, can becancelled at any time within that 24hours * can set standings of alliance directors of executor corp * same abilities as ceo, but also requires at least 1 other director to approve the button click or the ceo to do so too. if more than 2 directors, the yes/no situation comes into effect that if you have more no's than yes's, the action doesn't go into effect. yes/no votes can occur anytime in the 24hour period after the action is started. ceo has overriding vote on any action. democratic/communist/whatever it's calledall actions bar standings require greater than 50% agreement from all ceo's in the alliance corps.meeting end."
"oz: alliance should come in 2 flavours, dictatorial or democratic/communist (call it whatever you like)note:that was in addition of my input (just 4 the record that alternates also help out)"
"just a minor comment..would the whole alliance and corp issue be solved with stocks of vote and no vote types?one for deciding things, and the other type to pay out dividends and sell on scc soon(tm)..."
"pos are owned by a corp with an alliance affiliation. if the corp changes from one alliance to another, it takes 7 days to gain sov. if a second alliance had a pos and the major alliance lost sov, it would take 7 days for the secondary alliance to gain it. the numbers just don't add up for me. maybe ccp or a knowledgeable csm can respond."
"srry i meant i hate roleplaying now"
"fully support this"
"not sure if i should take the risk and buy me a nag or nid, just because i love the ships/look and pray they buff them. or just cross train and get thany or moros instead. nid race bonus does not make sense at all, for being a matar ship. ccp crew drunk or smoked pot while doing this? this should been fixed, when they were looking over nags slot layout."
"what i like about online gaming is that you can easily type three letters and avoid chatting if you are busy. afk can be invaluable at times and that is why i have come up with a couple of improvements to this function.the first being when you type the letters afk i eaither caps lower case or any part therof it will place a symbol beside your picture for all to see.i know what you are all thinking, this is a waste of time we do not need it. but that is quite to the contrary. think bak on how many times you have logged in and tried to talk to a freind in one of many channels he/she uses and had no response. then think of the options available to see if they are afk. you can hail them ineach window.send them a message or hijack them into a new chat, al of wich take time and the last two of wich can be irritating if they are in the middle of a mission.this function i propose would enable you to immediatly see if the person wan'ts to be contacted. if it was placed in one chat box it would automatically appear in all of them by your picture. andwould be removed upon talking with audio or typing in a chat box.of course there would need to be several options available to configruee this to suit you but i think i will leave that part to eve.if you have any comments regarding this post please let me know i would greatly appreciate it.many thankssilverswann."
"like, supported, though i think the topic has been raised in the past?"
"back to the top until it gets some csm support. lost more kills because of this issue. edit: tired, grammer mistake"
"i agree, it pretty much is a massive dis-incentive insofar as you almost must fit a a scan res mod on to stand a chance, and are even therefor gimped in combat. nanoships like vagas should be close, but double sensor boosting shouldn't be a necessity to initiate pvp in low or highsec."
"1. this isnt discrimination. they are meaningless insults and trash talk.this isnt going to change. ccp can go bat**** crazy trying to ban any of this... in that they start losing tons of cash and working much harder then they need to... because those insults will simply evolve.instead of calling you gay or a moron... they'll call you a furry or invent something new to be insulting and offensive.too which you come right back complaining about the new offensive thing. you cant win your offensive political correctness crusade until all offensiveness is removed from the game. it cant happen.so go back 2 hello kitty"
"i'm going to have to side with the mob here on this one. you choose to become offended by looking at offending material. my corp has heterophobic statements in its corp description, but i'd imagine there'd be as much scorn and derision to any petition regarding that as you're receiving. besides, people are mostly using stereotypes in an incorrect or characterized context such as:\"you're gay\"\"that's gay\"\"gay\"if you want to make it your personal crusade to inform people of the correct use. egregious violations, like corp or character names such as \"gaysmustdie\" you can petition successfully, but seeking to use ccp as a sword against intolerance is a line most people would not willingly cross."
"the day ccp starts kicking people around for the op... is the day i can petition to have the op permanently banned for being a total idiot and prejudiced."
"approximately 40% of the mineral market stems from recycled loot drops. these figures do not include reprocessing of player-built items, which are not a source of minerals (i.e. a point where they enter the game for the first time). this robs miners of a significant share of the market, making mining, in most cases, a poorly-paid and somewhat redundant profession. a more detailed breakdown follows:source:"
"not supported. if it aint broken don`t fix it."
"i spoke to diagoras yesterday, they're hoping to have it out later today/tomorrow. he was suggesting that it is the largest dev blog ever written for eve..."
"thanks for the update oz."
"i don't care about individual names, but i would like to see which corporations and alliances were involved."
"dev blog is up!"
"that still violates their rules so no. live with it. the dev blog was as thorough as i had hoped and i applaud ccp for being as frank as they could have been. thanks. as i also suspected, this pos bug didn't hurt eve as much as everyone said it did. a testament to the game. thanks ccp!--isaac"
"is any of this stuff going to make it into apocrypha?its been a loooong time since there has been any word on this."
"no"
"you'll force them into 1 man corps, that they will simply leave the moment you war-dec them.you can't force people into pvp. they will find ways around it or leave."
"make it cost isk to make corps. ;("
"then you make it harder for people to form corps. -.-this argument has tried and died. it just doesn't work. sorry."
"i want the tax for newb corps to be similar to real life.the more isk you earn... the more tax you have to pay."
"yes.... lets punish the corps even more!real smart genius... real smart...not!"
"alright, i stay in npc corp because i enjoy helping other people. what you're implying is that new players should only get advice from the rookie help channel filled with spam, players who just joined a few months ago, and alts whose only purpose is to stay there for help reasons? no thanks.the wardec fee is already laughable, and you want to reduce it even more? wardec individual players? can you say game-ending griefing?take a reality pill and stop forcing people to play the game the way you think they should. if you want a higher tax in npc corps, remove another penalty we already have, such as the inability to erect a pos or the crappy fleet mechanics."
"interesting idea allow a form of war dec of individuals in an npc corp of a certain number of kills then the war dec expires and cannot be renewed for a certain amount of time.thisa: gives the ability to deal with alt scouts a major issue in high sec conflicts.b: removes a degree of protection from those in npc corps without leaving them completely open to harassment.c: gives the ability to strike at a mission runner or trading alt if you figure out someone you are in conflict with has one.there is of course the problem of it allowing more harassment of individuals. other than that i see few other problems except the difficult of implamenting in a programming sense."
"/threadi wish csm had moderation rights here to cut out this kind of crap. first post in features and ideas and if the idea gets some attention and favorable comments then come to assembly hall..."
"you want more targets, we get it.you think every ship that mounts a mining laser is a macro miner, we get it.you think everyone who plays this game should play it the way you do, we get it.you think that posting the same suggestion 2-3 times a week is going to make ccp look beyond their subscription numbers and make a radical policy change, we get it.wtb, a sticky thread listing the dead horses the have been been beaten until nothing but a faint bloodstain is left. with forum bans for people who insist on indulging in public sadistic equine necrophilia."
"actually he doesnt want everyone to play like he does. he want everyone to line up in mining ships while he shoots everyone without any risk involved.untill wardeccing is more than pay to grief*, i wont support any boost to it.*yes it is pay to grief. how many wars are started for real reasons? even wardeccing miners so you can prevent them from strip mining 'your' belt is fine for me, if you want to stripmine that belt yourself. but right now the reason for 90% of the wardecs is easy targets."
"i reckon you'd be surprised by how many wardecs are genuine attempts to hamper what are thought to be \"logistics corporations for larger political entities. i don't in any way attempt to deny that a large proportion of wardecs are done to milk tears from carebears, but to use the term griefing is a blatant attempt to invalidate this playstyle - a playstyle that has been validated time and time again.wardecs perhaps need some love, but not as a priority. the entire corporate side of eve needs work."
"you'd be surprised how many of them are greif wars.hang around rens sometime... you'll find out real quick.there's always something going down in rens...frarn....and surrounding systems.brutor tribe treasury is always station camped.yes i'm quite sure there are valid wars... but those wars are overshadowed by greifing ones."
"in every 0.0 corp i have been in, wardecs were issued against us once in a while. to disrupt our logistics? of course not, they just hope to get some player autopiloting through high sec.disrupting the real logistics of a 0.0 (or low sec) alliance? so not just killing random player of that alliance hauling his stuff. that is not possible. grab a cov ops, go to a jump bridge which is part of their main logistics route, and watch all the neutral freighters coming through. either they all went nrds, or do you use alt corporations for their logistics.of course there are 'real' wardecs, but i think that right now by far the most wardecs are just to get easy targets."
"you completely and utterly missed my point. wardecs on alliances are usually done by headstrong pvp corporations who are willing to risk the wrath of the blob for the chance to gank a few lone haulers and other ships in lowsec pipes as the individual takes their stuff out or back from 0.0 space. what i'm talking about is \"alt\" logistics corps running fuel etc for 0.0 alliances, sometimes even getting standings with enemy alliances.the hunting of these corporations is and always will be a big thing, as anyone with half a brain who is involved in serious alliance warfare knows that if you want good logistics, keep a portion of it neutral. it is these neutral corporations - or more accurately, corporations that are suspected of being involved in alliance logistics - that are often the target of independent mercenary contracts and hence receive wardecs."
"a lone hauler is not the same as logistic operations of the alliance, what you were talking about. risk of the blob? you mean safety of the station. no one who isnt really bored actually bothers to fight those wardeccers because they just dock up anyway.and wardeccing their logistics corp? so they corp hop to another one, or just to an npc corp."
"change the wardec mechanic so an individual can be wardecced and problem solved."
"you're preaching to the converted: a change to the entire corporation mechanics & interface is required, including revision of wardec mechanics. i just thought that i'd mention that again so you know there can be no confusion.erm, please quote me for clarity purposes. i discussed logistics corporations from the get-go, and you started focusing on war decs on alliances. now we're talking about lone haulers? my god, get a grip man - that was a rebuttal to your lack of initial understanding and you manage to move yet further off on a tangent!again, comprehension for the win. it's the corporation who declares war who risks the blob you nit, as eventually in these situations one of two things happens: the wardec expires because they didn't get any kills at all as their target wasn't as dumb as they thought, or they get too many kills, the alliance sees a trend on their killboards and organises a fleet to go blob them into surrender.see above.that qualifies as \"disrupting\" logistics. standings need set, assets need moved from corporate hangers etc, etc. that causes a nuisance and that falls well within the boundaries of \"disruption\".i really can't decide: are you stupid or just trolling?"
"sorry, i misread your first post, you were indeed talking about logistic corporations.however what remains, is that those wardecs are only a small minority of all the wardecs. and it isnt that much work to set some new standings, in providence new standings are applied every day, changing a new hauler corp to blue isnt much work.and while i cant speak for all 0.0 corporation, the ones i have been in all had it pretty simple: during a wardec just stay outside high sec, they wont come anywhere where someone might shoot them, so you are safe in low sec and 0.0 from them. hunting them down is discouraged, because it only results in less people defending 0.0 and more people who watch docking games in high sec. attacking them doesnt work, they dock up. everyone just waits out their week of wardec, when the wardeccer will switch to deccing another alliance."
"what? seems to me if they undock you can force them to pvp. you just target them then start clicking on all those shooty things in your high slots and voila they are forced into pvp."
"what makes you think they'll undock? they can just spend a week fiddling with the market or playing a different alt or playing hello kitty island adventure.you haven't forced them to pvp, just forced them to not play that character. keep it up long enough, they'll decide to spend their money elsewhere. you can call that a win, i suppose, but you're hurting ccp more than you are your erstwhile opponent."
"while that will work for mission and rat farmers, it does not work for trade alts.. the corp does not tax sales from income generated from items being sold."
"a clear why dont we have that as a feature in npc and pc corps.?"
"the thing that prolly bugs me the most is, ideas grow and not all programmers are gamers, does this skill loss thing stop here? does it creep down the line in a few expansions into regular skills also? ccp needs to understand that the player base as a whole does not want to lose skills."
"lol"
"i guess we'll see t3 in empire only huh :)the way i understood it was the skill is in the ship not the person. so the longer you pilot the ship etc the better you will become.there is only one way ccp could fix this if it is still training... dual skill training for t3.allow us to still keep training our skills like we normally would, but while we're sitting in the ship it trains up the t3 skill as well.do that and i can see people using them more often."
"we won't see t3 in empire only. there will be pilots who choose to take the extra risk in order to take advantage of the extra \"edge\" these ships will almost certainly provide."
"at the sticker price these things are probably going to come to the market at, it might be better just to use a carrier for that \"edge\".the first few of these are going to be in the billions because they will be rare, as more and more come into play they will drop down in price, however unless the drop rate is incredible like say salvage, then these things will be pricey at best. considering they are targeted to be the \"middle ground\" between t1's \"ok at a lot master of none\" and t2 \"master of this but useless everywhere else\" i doubt the average pvp or fleet ops will have these in running.imagen taking a bugattie to the local biker bar, sure you'll see some pricey bikes at in the parking lot but you'll stick out like fat man at an anorexic bikini conversion!"
"this is odd, id never thought i'll be asking for something that is not yet on tranquility, but i ask the csm representatives to please support this thread if they agree with me (and many others).please give us the option to retain the current, soon to be the old, fitting screen. that ps'd example from k'orbin looks easy to implement so to include t3 requisites, but it is light years better than the new 'fitting screen' in lots of ways, please ccp don't give us pointless 'bling bling' while sacrificing all usability that is expected from any window.i raise this question to the csm now, because it is surely going to take ages, if ever, to be attended and/or acknowledged as the grave mishap this change is to become."
"well other than the subsystems hard points...and i don't know what those are.what is any different about this old fitting screen?"
"huh?where? what change?i don't see whats so different then the subsystem thing."
"so how does this have anything to do with the introduction to the game?honestly.... forcing them to join a corp head on (right from the start) is like shoving a kid who doesn't know how to swim into the deep end of the pool.it's implied even if you say its not forced.this is also a veiled route to avoid npc corp'ing.you really aren't thinking this through.. and that's for sure.don't get me wrong.. i see why...and i understand your intentions... but this is the wrong way to go about it.rookie chat is more useful at that rate."
"the number of players that lose interest in eve because they dont get used to the social aspects and the importance of support in learning the game is bigger than most might think..to many people i ask to try it out wants to try building alone.. sure that is their option, but they should be advised even pushed a bit to enter a real corp.they can always leave if they decide to try their luck alone.what i am saying is that you can play eve solo, but learning eve solo is next to impossible.. and when trying the steepness breaks many a spirit.draco tbh eve could really benefit from nudging the noobs into the social aspect. its the only way to actually give the full experience of the game."
"add 10% skill loss upon being podded and i'll support it as well."
"no.the system in place is an ancient greek style of democratic congress. everyone is allowed to propose, debate, and support ideas.the csm acts as a governing body above the congress, picking the ideas that seem to be the most supported and then pressing them upon the oligarchy that is ccp.not supported. the only thing missing from assembly hall is a thumbs down feature."
"going to put a small comment on this one..i admit i am rather fond of many features from irc..is there any reason not to add more of these in ingame channels?i would also find it rather nice with being able to get user enters and user exits in chat. preferably as an on off feature.. to avoid weird flooding in very used channels."
"ok so i was thinking everyone is moaning and sayin just kill it off but what if ccp likes it and keeps it or maybe all we need to do is to think of a solution and iv made one or sort offok so i came up with the idea of a skill that can anti the sp loss, a certain reduction in the loss of it all and its pretty simple no ties to it no other stuff and a extra skill and sp requirments could be learning skills have them up to a certain standard and then have this skill in the learnings catagory this way the learning will allso have more of a use towards something, and it will help with the problem a little the percentage would be up to ccp deciding how much it reduces it by. its not a big solution but its something that will be effective and ccp don't have to put alot of thought into it since there concentrating on all bugs with the expansionjust a thought on matter sorry if i havent given more info but its late and im tired lol :d"
"supporting my own idea :d"
"eli come down stairsyou need your medicationxailz"
"fu /me runs and skips away"
"what is the status of the \"small freighter\" project at this point? last one said about it was that it is under development.in reference to this old thread (csm - ccp meeting 001 - 0036 small freighters)."
"the orca is the ship designed to fill that role."
"thank you. i was reading the orca dev blog and was a little confused, because the ship sounds more like a hybrid transport-mining support ship, rather than a pure transport ship."
"orca's overall carrying capacity makes up for the freighter short fall."
"tl;dr: nerf assembly hall, boost features & ideas discussion.this little gem of a quote appeared in the \"nerf npc corps\" thread and i couldn't resist hijacking it, as it's a cracking idea in and of itself. i can't remember who this is accredited to, but i'll post up the name in my own supporting post beneath this one:i think this really hits the nail on the head - allow only the csm members new topic rights on this forum (or create another group for this purpose?) and have ideas posted into f&i then transferred across if the idea receives favourable responses. there's already a significant amount of cross posting and let's face it; why would anyone post an idea in f&i when they'll get exactly the same feedback and a much higher probability of ccp feedback by posting in the ah?"
"the original post can be found here by hugh ruka."
"other ideas of moderation have been brought forward before."
"make them so if you have a locked target, they act just as normal missiles do. if you dont have a lock; they act like fofs but you have the ability to choose their target; but this means you have to be really quick; and the missiles might hit before they change target, or run out of spoom. obviously if ur torps only go 40km, and ur 30km from the target and they went 15km in the opposite direction. the torps wont hit."
"youre proposal fails!!if youre jammed you cannot lock...if your sensor dampened below locking range you cant lock.if you can lock.. then you dont need fof missiles..i much better idea is to have fof for short range missiles.. not just long range missiles."
"the idea is for convenience - this way you can use fofs without having to spend 10 seconds swapping missiles every time you gain or lose lock. a rather ingenious use of t2 status, and i like it. i'm not a fan of the ability to pick a target without lock, but the basic ability to be either a normal missile or a fof missile is good."
"make them useful? fit a rocket launcher ii and load it with defenders..."
"i think one of the reasons why defenders have largely been neglected (such as shared defense) is not so much the coding issues as it is missiles are already a ****-poor pvp form as is, and further use would just nerf an already gimped weapons system."
"linkage"
"just like it says in title. give us the option to add bookmarks to the overview, and an additional option to show the bookmarks in space as celestial beacons.this will make certain...forms...of exploration much easier and more enjoyable."
"it is original, but i don't like it. besides that, will it also stop those from looting from inside a tractor as well?"
"while i have run many missions, i've never seen a \"ninja salvager\", but i do have to say if that i am the one putting in the effort to do the mission, and then someone comes along as i am killing the npcs and starts taking the salavge which i earned by killing the ship, i would be rather annoyed. now tbh i usually bring my alt with me into the missions in a salvage ship, makes things go fast and simple, and in the end i sit with the big ship as the alt finishes up the salavaging, goes and deposits they stuff and comes back ready for more. worse case, if i am on my own, i take some secure cans, pop on a salvager and tb and shove it all into the secure can so after i can go switch to a hauler and come get it. i would have say i am for aggro rights on ships i have nuked if someone tries to take the salvage, much like if they tried to take the can. i am curious to know if in the event the op enters a mission area and is asked politely by the mission runner not to salvage because he will be doing so, would he leave? would the op or any other \"ninja salvager\" ask when they arrive in an area if the mission runner is going to salvage? would you still salvage if the mission runner says \"yes i am going to salvage, but i have to switch out ships to do so\" (not everyone can afford two accounts or wants too)."
"so what eve needs is more carebears in 0.0 and custom paint jobs? i love the use of the word \"cater\" there, it really shows your gross misunderstanding of eve. eve doesn't cater to anybody, period. it presents opportunities and challenges and allows the players to make the most or least of both.if you want easier access to 0.0 as an industrialist you need to find a way to make your organization valuable to the entities living there or you need to add a combat division to your alliance. in general the entities that live there now have already solved the issues you would attempt to solve for them. that is why eve doesn't \"cater\" to industrialists who want access to 0.0. it expects them to use diplomacy or combat to get there and it's not eve's fault if they can't or don't want to do so.your hatred for bruce has blinded you from the beauty of what it provided. sure in the end we failed, but up until then we accomplished many things. eve presented us the opportunity to try those things and it also allowed for us to fail when we made bad decisions or faced a stronger opponent. that is how it should be. the game doesn't need to \"cater\" to anybody, it provides risk and reward and manages them quite well."
"sorry ex, thought you were commenting more in general terms about the options rather than giving a specific way of doing it, and yup, the alternates were extremely (see what i did there ) helpful for this meeting."
"it's very simple and is a known \"feature\" since ages back.indeed it takes 7 days for a pos to start claiming sov. but once it has started claiming sov the corporation owning the pos can switch to a different alliance and at the next dt the pos will have claimed sov1 (exactly what happened here).the poss in question were already up claiming sov for bob in the various corp's names when the alliance vanished. when the former bob corps merged in a new alliance their pos (some who have been up and running, claiming sov for years) triggered the sov system after dt (thus giving sov1 to rkz).this mechanic has created a great deal of confusion in the past during large sov fights where sov seemed to switch randomly (to the untrained eye).what happened in several of those cases was that the tower count was rather equal say 5vs7 (in favour of alliance a), all towers in the system having been up for atleast 7 days (yeah these things took time when 20dreads was alot).alliance b then decides to go blow up 3 pos from alliance a (instead of spamming 3 new towers).alliance a fails to understand the mechanics and are generally ****ed, screaming devhaxx and whatnot when sov changes over dt instead of the 7 days they thought.so old mechanic yet again creating havoc."
"i have to agree. thos of us with tons of stuff aquired over the years that we are too cheap to throw out needs a sorting mechanism.i support this completely."
"it's indeed pretty weird, i use the asset manager app. to locate stuff because i put everything in containers to sort it."
"just do the same for ships, would be handy if i got tabs there too."
"this is very good criticism and i support your viewpoints. you came up with very well thought out points of logic and i will most likely change my outline accordingly. i suggest more people give me this kind of feedback."
"signed.caldari are now the joke race. not only do caldari ships have to rely on mid slots for tanking (reduces tackling ability) but if they decide to tackle (as in web/scram so ur missiles can actually do some damage) they loose their tanking ability.the missile nerf went way toooooooooo far. they should at least reverse it partially."
"oops. forgot to check support. so here i go.the main concern from whiners is that noobs do too much damage with missiles. so even if they don't want to reconsider reprogramming the whole thing. add 25% or more (dunno how much is decent) to every skill level for target nav prediction instead of 10% and 10% instead of 5% for the skill reducing explosion radius. same with the missile implants."
"actually i would fall on my knees and kiss ccps feet if my large guns could hit a ceptor with 1/16 of their dps ;d"
"signed."
"/signed"
"signed"
"this ^^(that said however, i like things the way they were. missiles vs turrets actually provide for some diversity in the game mechanics. even if my large turrets do 0% damage to interceptor.)"
"would like to see cruise missiles and torps generally hitting bs for full damage.would like to see hams/heavys hitting for mostly full damage against cruiser targets.would like to see rockets and standards do the same.would also like to see hams/rockets be worth using compared to their long range counterparts - a blaster does 60% more dps than a railgun. a ham does 25% more dps than a hml."
"i support the concept, not the actual method.i would like to have the option to set my status to \"afk\" or \"do not disturb\". additional options like \"chat welcome\" and \"invisible\" could be nice to, even though i can already hear those scream who think of the addressbook/buddylist more as an intel-tool."
"posting for general support of afk notification in chat channels. i'm not too fussy about the details, so long as i can manually set myself afk when i'm leaving the keyboard and clear it when i get back, at a minimum.it would definitely help avoid general awkwardness when chatting to someone whose status you haven't yet established."
"have you thought about how this gives out more intel? or can be used to fake flag afk as a trap?"
"this.not supported.would be abused too easily... and its just too easy to type afk in chat anyway."
"well...i'd say as soon as you do anything in the game (any click...anything...maybe even just move your mouse) the afk tag should drop.i'd also add an automatic afk tagging. if your client detects no input whatsoever for (say) 30 minutes the tag gets applied.also i personally would never, ever assume a hostile with an afk tag was actually afk and i'd act as usual."
"yay for more support. you guys are restoring my faith in the community. to get more specific what i am proposing is that the second you leave highsec you can:* moon mine* anchor anything with the 0.3 requirement (i.e. no 0.0 only stuff)* delegate fighters* not be subject to a charter/standings requirementas far as the comments about 0.1 pirate playgrounds and the like, that is an entirely different subject. personally i would like to see sliding scale sec hits between 0.4 through 0.1, but seriously, totally different subject. the point here is to eliminate the 0.4/0.3 distinction and i still haven't managed to find even one logical argument for said distinction. so keep up with the support and lets get this bad larry escalated and on the damn table!"
"general signage. 0.4 is indeed lowsec."
"gay used to be a way to describe joyous, happy, lively ect. these days it's grown to be a slang term. i think you're being a tad too serious. bastard used to be a really aweful word. probably the worst insult you could use against someone. these days it isn't seen like that anymore. i doubt a lot of people who call things gay really foster a great hatred against the glbt community. they may not agree with it, and that is their full right. if you see real discrimination then report it. and else, lighten up a bit"
"as the subject says: the majority of players fly t1 ships of bs size and smaller - lets have some more variety please. :)(areas which specifically need a lot more attention are destroyers and battlecruisers.)"
"i'd like to see 5 more frigates for each race as well. why not?"
"i would love it, if faction ships got splitted into common and uncommon faction ships. whenever i fly an angel mission, i pop dozens of dramiels. yet when i want to fly one, i have to pay about 50-60 million for it? i wonder how the angel syndicate is able to afford that. sure, they build them. yet they could make more money than with crime if they just sold them themselves. makes no sense.so why not turn ships like the dramiel into something slightly better, like an \"archangel dramiel\" with some minor buffs and unique features or as a tech ii version of the dramiel and at the same time make the basic dramiel a ship that can be bought and sold on the market for a reasonable price?i'm only using the dramiel as an example, of course. and i got one already. or two. i dunno.then there are all the other pirate ships that players cannot even fly at all. not even as faction ships. who cares if these ships are crap or the hottest stuff ever? make them available in one form or another.the addition of 1-2 extra destroyers per empire faction would also be cool.tech 3 gives big time candy to the big skill and money players. give something to the lower end of the scale, too."
"i couldn't agree with you more.pirate ships provide a unique set of bonuses you can't get with the standard races and have some of the best looking hulls but a relegated to underpowered (except sansha) and incredibly expensive faction ships. besides, what sounds better than a domination macherial or dark blood ashimmu?i'd love to see a khanid set of t1 ships for amarr. (except for possibly frigates)there's definitely room for 1 more destroyer per race (though fixing the existing ones should be a higher priority) and 1 more bc per race. one more bs and cruiser couldn't hurt either."
"destroyers are due for their second tier."
"more ships = good."
"totally agree eht3 is interesting and all that but just sounds like theyll be too costly to use anywhere other then your lvl2 missions.some variation in the affordable range would be awesome...and i want my force recon drake damnit!"
"eh why not.../signed"
"destroyers really need another tier or 2 as that is what new players get into quite early on and can be in a long time, another bc wouldn't hurt either."
"signed - lets have some stuff that really matters to new players. more little ships please."
"true, but also, even if you just introduced more frigates, it would add a dynamic to the current system."
"how about a third battlecruiser? i love bc's. in many ways they are the poor mans' bs. there are three bs classes, why not 3 bc classes?"
"i would really like to have more variety so there isn't just tier 1, 2, 3 of a ship class (where in general, tier 3 is the best and only one worth using)."
"great idea!"
"like this idea..."
"as with my corpies above i like this idea and am supporting it.personally i'd love to see this implemented in any future sov rework - or at least something similar too it. both as a preventative measure in regards to what we have seen recently as part of the bob/kenzoku thing, and just because from an outsiders point of view (for the moment) sov itself is a broken mechanic and does need fixing - as to how it needs it, i'll leave that argument to be presented by people with more experience of it than i have."
"reprocessing is like refininglootings is like miningso if you wanna change reprocessing you have to change refining. you want that? no?40% of the minerals in the market are fromr eprocessing? good that means miners can only supply 60%. it would be more if they could supply more.it isn't broken, perhaps the loot drops are. there wouldn't be as much reprocessing if the drops were worth keeping. anyway nothing needs to change."
"the only change i'd make would be to reduce all empire refineries to 38% instead of 50%. well, that and removing unnamed t1 drops from missions."
"^^this.remove unnamed t1 loot from missions and not only do you reduce what many view as \"free\" minerals on the market (and depressing prices) but also open the door for people to build t1 items (which is a great stepping stone for new builders).a loss associated with reprocessing should always exist...you never get back as much as you put in."
"this. a good step toward general transparency in dealing with violations."
"just as i expected, not even worth expressing frustrations.when will the current ccp game design team will retire? it seems there is some kind of dev rotation schedule. at least, we used to have some good devs before the current ones took over"
"quit crying about it. the expansion is huge but not related to ship balance. unless your willing to take over ccp, you have no reason to complain about it. --isaac"
"they have more than enough people to work on 2 things at a time. and they had months to add the fuel bays - at least. sorry, your excuse doesn't fly in real business world"
"actually, and i say this as someone who is no friend of ephemeron, but he is correct.remember when amarr were hoplessly broken? for 2 years, people mentioned what was wrong and nothing happened. then, a amarr whiner single handedly created a massive amarr campaign informing the general eve public (approx 86% of eve was non-amarr at the time) of exactly what was wrong with amarr and with thousands of posts in a short period of time, ccp relised that amarr had a issue and then fixed it.aparently it turned out that ccp was balancing amarr vs other races with damage modules etc, but forgot that amarr lacked infinite cpu/grid to fit said modules in a non-comedy setup. even laser thorax's performed better than laser amarr cruisers in every single way. added to this was things like eanm effecting changes to real world setups etc etc, but that a long story and you can read up on eve search about it.so what is the lesson? if you dont tell people something is wrong, then you can be waiting for 2 years with nothing happening and no recognition of the issue. if any company does something wrong, how on earth can they fix it if they do not know? how can someone make something a priority if people do not express the issues regarding it?as it stands, black ops is hediously broken and, in my opinion, needs to be taken to the drawing board and compleatly redone as a small gang ship baised on real world pvp. all the last csm crew did was to use black ops to boost a transport ship.ephemeron, if you ever run for csm, then you got my vote, since i guess most of the previous csm have probebly never solo/small gang pvped unless its \"market pvp\" or \"mining pvp, gotta mine em all!\"."
"even if i had the time, i wouldn't make a good csm candidate. i don't really enjoy having long meetings and talking in circles about some simple issue. also, it doesn't help that i lost confidence in ccp's performance on issues of game design.honestly, i just want to see the current game design team to be replaced, so we can have a fresh new start. maybe we can get lucky with devs that actually care and don't suffer from \"goumindong\" logic syndrome.sorry for being overly negative lately"
"no problems, sorry for getting antsy about it indeed a large proportion of wardecs are like this and have been since the fabled privateer nerf way back when. what the privateer nerf showed us was that there was a genuine, scalable way to provide serious disruption to alliance logistics through wardec mechanics, and that as a work around for this problem (that ccp then later took a different approach to remedying, that of scalable war dec fees) was that logistics pilots would simply enter npc corporations.it's this scenario that i feel requires the most attention. i'm not against the multitude of mechanics on offer to evade pvp as many people do, i'm against it being possible to have a predominantly pvp playstyle and have logistics alts directly helping this playstyle (including my own hauler alts, to be fair) entirely safe from all but the suicide ganker. it is for this reason that i support discussion over npc corp tax mechanics, and indeed any discussion over the npc corporation problem"
"because you could not make profit in lots of scenarios.there is no way to tax the profit of trading by an automated system. how should the client know how much of the stuff you sold were win and how much actually the cost associated with getting it?there is a tax already on trading. say somone sells an item for 1m, his profit is only 10k per item because he has to \"pay\" [however] 990k. then he has to pay 1% in corp tax =) no profit made. lets say the tax is 10%, then he would not win anything even if it costs him only 900k. if the tax is 50% he needs to sell the item at double costs to come even [without any profit]....you see the problem?"
"taxing trading would work just fine; scale the broker taxes based on the corporate tax rate."
"you read what i wrote?if there was a way to determine profit it would be no problem.bounties and mission rewards are pure profit [minus ammunition but thats a very small cost] while buy and sell orders are not. so traders that are in corps with additional taxes would be in a major disadvantage. leading to: more traders in npc corps or 1 man corps without taxes if npc corps would get it, too."
"i read exactly what you said, yes. i'm afraid you missed pretty much the entire point:this.it'll lead to traders either:living alone in their corp, dogged by wardecs and constantly moving aroundbanding together with a few other traders in a low/no tax corp to form a group that can more robustly defend itself and makes a name for itself thereby reducing the number of incoming wardecsjoin a large, low/no tax corporation or alliance to benefit from the security through obscurityany way you look at it, it nerfs npc corps without affecting the possible profits on trade for the individual willing to play the \"risk vs reward\" game, which is sadly quite absent from market pvp compared to other forms of pvp. the only difference is that it would scale the cost of trading based on corporate taxes (note the wording there; based on taxes, not \"at the same rate as\"*), which in turn would render moving out of the npc corp for a trading character a more appealling idea.*to clarify, let's say a corporation has a 10% tax rate and a given sell order has a 10,000 broker fee. in a zero tax corporation, that broker fee would be 10,000, whereas in a 10% tax corporation that fee would rise to 11,000. the percentage is applied to the existing broker fees, not to the sale value of the items. broker fees themselves may of course need reevaluated, but that's something that could be done in tandem"
"my object is that eve is a balance of risk vs. reward.npc corps give almost 0 risk yet have very high rewards. i do not believe this is a good balance."
"almost 0 risk.... yeah..... makes sense now.can't do squat other than solo'ing... yep.... makes sense.try plugging in your brain before you make such statements."
"you forgot to put on your helmet."
"yes, but thus a trader in the corporation makes 100 isk less that the other trader can cut of and sell for less, thus having more customers, thus driving the corporation trader out of market.one man corps for traders constantely wardecced? yes until the trader leaves and makes a new one. or plays market games the whole week long without leaving station.there is no real way to tax traders until it is possible to define what is \"profit\" for him, which is impossible. sry. and taxing npc corps anyway: why? just that they need to join pcs that you can wardec them? hell, why not leave them alone its a playstyle that doesn't want more pvp than the occasional suicide ganker.just because they dont want to play with/against you does not mean they should not be able to play at all. i dont really know what you have to moan about with carebears anyway, they do their stuff you do yours. if you are a lowsec pirate and moan about noon coming there think about it: why would i come there if you just shoot my down in a gatecamp? [thats the impression anyway, even if its not true]if you are a highsec pvper and moan about npc corps think about why they dont join player corps, because they dont want to be wardecced. but why do they have fear of that? becuase you can wardec without a reason just to kill them and thats why they wont leave npc corps. so they want to use existing game mechanics to protect themselves as you use game mechanics to kill them. isn't that legit? you wanting to change the mechanics so you can kill more of them is just the same as some of them wanting to change the mechanics to not be killed by you. i'd call you pvp carebears i think because you are too lazy to use the game as it is and just want it easier."
"you and i need to meet in game and have a drink : o )"
"sorta kinda this.but the impression is good enough.people should never be forced to do anything in particular.i would classify 3 groups in npc corps.1: noobs - people who have no bloody idea whats going on for the most part2: small fry - they know enough to realize that without a ton of isk and man power some jerk is going to war-dec them.3: alt - likely the alt of a player in a player corp snooping around or doing business normally not possible on the main.i left out 1 group.... corp jumper.... that's likely the only reason this stupid proposal exsists.and until you recognize and respect the first 3 groups... you got a snowballs chance in hell in getting support."
"well put. also, i'm online - and you owe me a beer."
"right tax the alliances for the moon mining products and the titans they own."
"troll. :("
"yeah you quote his quip, but not his several paragraph long dissection of your argument.try at least acting like an intelligent person if you're going to shamelessly bump your own topic."
"sorry... at work! x o di'll look you up when i get back tonight.o7"
"you don't notice a logic fallacy there? if you tax the activity in a npc corp, you damage the people playing while in it, but you don't effect in any way the hauling alts. they don't need to get paid to work for the main. they can accept cargo contracts at 0 cost. the player can use a corp affiliate character to buy and sell without ever leaving the station and give the stuff to the hauler character only when he need to move it. taxable isk moved in the hauler wallet = 0, zero, nothing, nada. so it will do nothing to deter hauling alts, but will damage people that play and want to stay npc corps."
"has already been brought up a few hundred times, go read the other threads why the answer is no."
"the other threads have weak arguments, it's mostly carebears whining about wanting to be safe. :/"
"yeah and whether you like it or not, there are more people in empire space than 0.0.the minority will never rule the majority. so while the entire corp system needs an overhaul. pathetic attempts like this to force-grief people, will not fly."
"i would like to propose a different solution to the problem:maintenance fees.you'd like to own and operate a titan? great. that'll cost you 14 million isk a week in maintenance. in addition to the stuff you pay for already of course. frigates will cost you say 500, and we scale up from there. that covers things like keeping the rats out of the wiring, ground crew salaries, etc etc.oh, and docking fees. that would be another good way to soak up excess isk. because after all, that's what this thread is really about.right?-vel"
"<.<your joking right?do you even know what it takes to maintain a titan? hell even i don't know! i know they ain't cheap that's for sure!bout the only thing that made sense there was a docking fee but what happens if your bankrupt! oh i'm sorry... you can't leave because your broke!well frak that... guess i better beg for isk..oh wait... they don't like that.come on people... lets try to come up with rational ideas please!and stop treating this like an isk inflation problem....you want a source for isk inflation?kick the macro miners in the groin... there's your problem right there."
"lol drake. i was being sarcastic. because we all know this thread has absolutely nothing to do with too much isk in the game and everything to do with someone wanting to be able to hunt down non-pvp'ers and squish them."
"i don't want more people in 0.0. i don't care if people are in highsec. i just want them to not be in npc corps when in highsec."
"yeah i'm sure you want lots of things, so do i.get over it. you're not going to get a new way to grief people by veiling it thinly behind a proposal thats been dredged from the fail-bin at least 20 times a year.just give it up."
"war dec mechanics are meaningless to me, as i'm a low and no sec pilot so i shoot anything regardless of the corp it's in.my own reasons for being interested in finding ways to reduce the npc corp population are simple: i don't really like the fact that in one of the most \"interactive\" games, where so much of the game is made by the players, we've got a huge percentage of players still residing in npc corporations when i feel the reasons for them wishing to be there are a result of flawed game mechanics.nerfing npc corps might help move some people out, but in the end it wouldn't change things all that radically. a complete redesign of the corporation mechanic is in order to do that, and i think that should start with your choice of home corporation being included in the new player experience."
"disagree. if things are implemented the way they are currently believed to work, and you lose one level of a rank 1 skill that is guaranteed to be t3 subsystem-specific, then this is a really good idea."
"if these skills were on a seperate training timer i would have supported it. but training skills for something i won't lose, or training skills for something i will lose...nice for bored veterans perhaps, and even then, i'm sure even they got something left to train they can keep."
"after seeing the new one, i feel your pain. but the ui has gone through tons of changes, and i doubt thats the one that will stay. they will have to make some serious modifications, so that you can fit without it taking up the entire screen."
"wow, that is an ugly idea for the new interface."
"the new one is not that bad. you can close the sidebars and then all you have remaining is that ring around your ship. the sidebars are not needed anyway unless you need some specific information about your ship."
"actually that looks kinda cool.but then i have a 24 inch wide screen.x o dcourse that may not look so hot on my macbook pro 15\"but still... its not that big of a deal."
"i have an idea and not sure if this is the right location to post it. i believe it's an original idea. it's an idea to have a class fight (frigs, cruisers, battlecruisers, and battleships) with 1v1. i like to best compare it to a boxing format where you have lightweight, heavyweight, etc. there would be weekly fights and tournaments. the \"title\" matches could be exhibition for the alliance tournaments. i believe this would add a new side to the realm with a real live sports and betting parlor, if you will. i've read some of the chronicles and still working on it and i believe this could really help the pc side merge with the npc. not that you folks haven't done an absolutely beautiful job in the first place. :) i'm willing to discuss this with someone as i do not believe i could do this on my own. i would need assistance from ccp."
"i thought the first rule of fight club was to not talk about it.: o pcouldn't resist.idea has merit... but you'd need to refine it a bit more there."
"lol, beautiful response. anyway, i am still working on the entire line of how this would work but i have most of it down. it would be set up with a ranking system so everyone knows where they sit. there would be weekly tournaments (fights) in which you would have roughly 32-64 participants from each class. obviously there would be many more than this and that's why you would base it on a weekly event. this way everyone gets a chance to test their metal and still have the opportunity to make the rankings. when it came time for the \"title\" fights, this would consist of your top 8 or 16. there would be a license fee for those that want to be in the fight club that would in turn be the top prize for the \"title\" fights. nobody would have to leave their corps/alliances to purchase a license. the weekly tournaments you would have an admission fee with winner take all or however it would be divided. i haven't really worked the total divide out as this is still a raw idea. back to the rankings, you could do it many different ways. you could earn one point for each placing through the weekly tournaments or you could set up a board that submits their own rankings and you consolidate, similar to the ap polls in the us.ps, i did a similar event on ultima online back in the day. we ended up with over 100 members."
"when is the next election.i wish to correct the council"
"you won't get any votes, nobody likes you."
"i will vote!"
"only if i get to vote for your removal from the game : o p"
"the problem:-there is no way to organize your massive pile of junk (and we all have at least one) in eve. this is because containers cannot contain other containers or some other organizational method.the solution(s):-create a set of containers that have the same internal volume as their external volume (i.e., the volume they take up). -create a method for organizing items into folders in containers and/or cargo areas."
"better solution - the ability to partition the hangar.i.e. right click (items) create new tab. name, rinse, repeat. no cargo limits, no need for the clutter.can't support this because it just creates russian egg syndrome. containers inside containers inside containers."
"a ship idea has been floating around my head for a while now, and it seems even more relevant with the impending expansion of the galaxy. exploration command ship: an orca-like ship designed to support a small fleet (5-15 ships) on extended forays far from support infrastructure, poss, or stations. the ships role would be to carry the extra ammo, drones, probes, and other supplies needed for true deep space ventures that could last for weeks or even months. it also provides repair facilities via the corp hangar. as the supplies run low, the cargo hold fills up with the finds and riches of the exploration - loot, salvage, etc.. kind of an orca-marauder (without the combat ability of the marauder, obviously) idea, a ship that doesn't have to return to dock for a very long time, and can support a deep space exploration team. possible features (obviously it can't have them all): +2 warp core stregth of a deep space transportcloaked speed bonus of a black opssome hardening - tougher than an orcaprobing bonusesanyone like the concept?"
"ehhh i can see a lot of issues with this ship.looks like a big fat meaty target for pirate gangs to me."
"it'd definetly be a meaty target - part of the exploration fleet's job would have to be to provide adequate scouting cover for this boat. i'm thinking the goal would be to get this thing way out beyond where most pirates roam - very deep 0.0 and extended explorations in wormhole space."
"i do...but... well.. here."
"nice! i've been thinking through ways to use the existing orca for this purpose and thought it was worth tossing an idea out there for a variant more tailored to exploration and deep space survival. i'd be interested to get that exploration-orca pilots opinion on this!"
"a tech 2 orca would prob be the best way to go about this.and then give it some hardened bonuses for dangerous space."
"i don't really know if it's necessary. in terms of what it can take, just devote the rigging to resistances. the set-up i linked is a good start.i just don't think another extremely specialized ship is what we need.i'm still kind of torn on the whole marauders thing."
"given the lack of information beyond the vague one-sentence response in zulu's q&a, i assume that this has, at best, been relegated to the 'soon(tm)' category, for implementation by the next generation of ccp devs after the current batch retires, if we're lucky?"
"alliances in fw was on the list for 'q1 2009', when asking about it in iceland they had looks on their faces that said \"guys, let's pretend we haven't completely forgotten about this.\" if we don't see anything done for fw towards the end of my term i'll make sure they're adequately poked before i'm out."
"if you read the recent dev blog. you will have read about the bug hunters are full of fail and aids.in one of the older cases, the user petitioning was asked to file a bug report but the resulting report was closed after the bug hunters were not able to reproduce the issue. at the time, no procedures were in place on our end to ensure that reproduction steps were included. nowadays, our bug hunters will contact the player submitting the report and request that the steps be added if they are missing.if you have ever made a bug report. you will have gotten asked for a log server, dxdiag, or better reproduction steps.hell i've posted a bug once, which had a picture, dxdiag, and log server. it got filtered asking for dxdiag.i've had many bugs filtered asking for dxdiag, despite my not being on windows at the time and thusly having no dxdiag.this leads to bugs not being fixedproposalmake it so the bug reporting system is entirely based publically.for exampleall bugs are public; now obviously this wouldnt work greatly for eve because exploits then become quite public.so thusly my proposal is to make it so filtered aka dead bug reports are made public and any account then can go post on the bug report."
"supported because bug hunters are made of so much fail and aids."
"reopen report, use it. public bug trackers are only relevant to open source software."
"i kicked in the beta test for premium graphics on the mac.... and turned in a bug report.only to find out the damn idiot knew nothing about mac systems and only saw as far as the game in itself.asked me for log files which where irrelevant and completely turned me off when they wanted a separate bug report for every stupid little thing.all they had to do was read the stupid report.so yeah.... much fail here.heck i'd get more information just reading the mac forums than i would from the bug hunters.even the dev's are smarter than that!<--- professional it tech/apple professional/gaming wacko/with enough sense to understand programming mechanics/database mechanics/and other fun little things."
"i wonder how much of this idea is \"get them into orps so we can wardec them\" i like the tutorial, and corp chat as well as help channel helped me. if someone is discouraged by tutorial and/or asking people then he will be discouraged by getting wardecced and killed, too.eve is a harsh difficult game anyway...learning curve is steep and if one is not willing to learn the first steps in tutorials or by asking in he help channel/npc corp channel/rookie channel, he wont get far in eve anyway.btw let them chose their career after char creation + tutorial..."
"this forum needs three things:1) it needs a couple of people with moderation powers who can delete the \"blithering idiot\" posts entirely so that posts with well thought out and constructive content don't shoot to page 3 after a few hours.2) it needs a thumbs down option so that you can disagree with a really bad idea.3) it needs to force you to choose thumbs up or thumbs down the first time you reply (with the option to edit it later if the op makes changes that effect your decision)."
"not so. i see many posts from people who are clearly insane, i myself am a criminal and there are women posting here!"
"i third thisthe assembly hall is pretty much where i come to judge the mood and heart beat of the playerbase, without a free forum in which suggestions can be aired, csm members can quickly lose touch and forget who they may be working for which would be a tragedy to say the least."
"the argument proposed here is that the features and ideas discussion forum should be this forum, with the assembly hall forum to be used for the exact opposite of what you suggest; it lets the playerbase see on a day-to-day basis what the csm are thinking is worthy of bringing to the table with ccp from those ideas which are posted in the f&i forums.i think we've simply got two forums doing the same job at the moment, one of which is vastly inferior to the other. we need to give them distinct roles..."
"i am as persistent as the lag is."
"too reasonable for the flamebrigade"
"you can always take single comments out of context to distort reality. i have no desire to make eve carebear heaven. i do however see that much of eve is empty and this tells me something should change. ccp recognizes that and some of those comments were part of the \"brainstorming\" conversations that occured in the ccp meetings.what the folks that think pvping is only about blowing someone up need to realize is that pvp can also occur in the markets and be every bit as \"brutal\" in its own way. one thing eve has that is truly unique and clearly a major focus is its economy, even to the point of having a full time economist. so sorry big badda boom types, but eve is also about mining and building things to make a profit. you might want to call folks the focus on that carebears and pretend they don't matter but clearly ccp has always felt otherwise.as for missing the point of bruce, we liked everyting about bruce but the leadership. sadly there is no game mechanic change that could address that.issler"
"could be worse. 4chan could start an eve alliance, too."
"i found it rather scary that this was asked for six years ago."
"horrible idea. only useful for thieves and people who screw over 4+ yrs of an alliances hard work with the click of one button...if your worried about people holding a grudge and tracking you down for the rest of your eve career then maybe don't do it?will not support a 'get out of jail free' card."
"such a heart wrenching argument. so you petition every character sale eh?"
"is there an update on this?"
"war dec the corp!!!! are you that lazy??"
"clicking my support into this. should be a tie in to the salvaging/hacking profession really!"
"thank you for being so short sighted. #1. opens up a new mini-profession #2. removes another time-sink from the game.#3. frees up availiable moon minerals.#4. makes people really care for their pos's a little more. while yes, you could war dec the corp & spend hours on an abandoned tower -- or you can use your capital fleet in 0.0the point is that the mechanic doesn't make sense, the towers been abandoned for years(?), it should unanchor."
"need for speed and all, look after your junk or let someone else do it for you. if it helps cut down on database strain, all the better."
"tempest is cheaper to use as a sniper, practically the same dps/alpha as a maelstrom(6.667% more dps/alpha from a maelstrom), larger cargo bay(more room for stuff) and frankly its bonuses are a minmatar trait. i wouldn't like the tempest changed(yes, this isn't really based on a logical argument)the maelstrom was born from the need for a gunship for caldari. all tier 3's were supposed to act as the sniper for the race initially(abaddon and hyperion deviated from this). this intended role for the maelstrom is reflected in the grid capacity, cargo bay, speed, targeting range... having a rate of fire bonus and a shield boost bonus both detract from this sniper concept. i'd propose changing the maelstrom to give it the main thing that it needs to differentiate it from the tempest as a sniper, volley damage. instead of having a rate of fire bonus on the maelstrom, make it a damage bonus, thereby increasing the volley damage while retaining most of the dps potential. as a bonus this also makes the maelstrom more efficient with ammo when using autocannons, a good thing considering the smaller cargo bay.for the other bonus that detracts from the sniper role, shield boost amount, i have not really given it much thought. perhaps make it also apply a 7.5% increase to shield hp on extenders or even just general shield hp increase(though that might be considered as being a 3rd bonus, idk)? in closing, i would support asking the devs to reprioritise overall ship balance issues(there are other ships that could also use a look, lachesis anyone), but your proposals for tempest and maelstrom, i don't like so this particular thread won't get my support. ps. i should prolly note that i'm max-specced for minmatar before you disregard this as an amarr defensive whine."
"i support this minmatar needs a sniper the range of the minmatar sniper is horrible and most fcs dont wanna bring minmatar snipers if they can be avoided.also the pest needed a clear role."
"sorry i'll keep my drone bandwidth + active tanking boost.i like the idea of building a 1000+ dps ac setup with my maelstrom, and i would never support a buffing of the tempest, since it does just fine being a cheap alternative in most situations.the only buff to tempest that seems passable would be the power grid buff. beyond that you're just pushing the tempest towards the maelstrom, and then why have 3 bs tiers?not supported."
"are you friggin kidding me.you wanna keep the useless shieldboost buff? why!!1000 ac damage is ridiculously bad if you compare it with a 1400 dps typhoon.also the only thing thats 'cheaper' with the tempest is the initial price after insurance comes back there is not much difference with a mael.the tempest is crap has no role. so people say yeah but its versatile.no versatile are the typhoon and dominix not a tempest.horrible sniper if you compare it with the rest.horrible mission boat, tracking is needed and dps and tank is subpar.close range pvp, bad tank again to little low slots. dps sup par can fit 2 neuts but so can every other bs. remote rep is exactly the same use a typhoon if you really wanna use a minnie ship better in almost every way then a pest.now what can it do?but i has killed megathrons in a pest. yeah prolly the worst fit ever or it was done on sisi with you having all slave implants and the opponents didnt or they where screwing around.also the shield hp bonus is far far superior then the shield boost bonus for pvp."
"please revise pos/sov relationship"
"with pos's even more important with the coming of t3"
"oh noes!!!! my cit torps on my naglfar won't hit a frigate going 5k a sec. wtf ccp!!!!!!!! on another note my nano mach i spent 3 bil on only goes like 1.8k with snakes!"
"get over it already."
"looks like you fail in pvp then ,and in trolling too."
"supported. (better late than never?)"
"automatic afk can be easily countered by using a macro or such that taps a key at a certain interval. which means that afk cloaker in your system can pretend to be there."
"bad idea."
"nobody is asking you to trust the afk symbol, and no one should do it, unless its a known player, ie.: a corpie, friend or whatever, so there you go, no exploitation is possible unless you are a gullible pilot that 'wants to belive', on the other hand, among trusted pilots it could be useful as the op said"
"bad idea, keep crap like that for lotro and wow."
"how about if the afk ticker only shows in corp and user-made channels? in local it does not show at all so everything remains as is on that front."
"i'd support this - i'd also include any fleet channels you belong to. ostensibly your corpies and your fleet mates you should be able to trust. at least a little.i would also say include an option that lets you disable the afk display for those people who don't want to use it."
"the ability to convert personel types (i.e., slaves to freed slaves, virtually anything to slaves, freedom fighters to corpses) has been discussed quite a bit. while i agree it would be nice to have, it's certainly not high on the devs' \"to do\" list, and probably won't be added."
"homophobia is not tolerated by ccp, its in the eula, if you feel that someone is abusing you verbally (so to speak) in eve, put in a petition, ccp are legally bound by mutual contract (eula and tos) and local laws where applicable to take action where deemed appropriate.certain countries have the term \"gay\" to mean bad, but i take it with a pinch of salt. im too old to care about some narrow minded people, i just take it in my stride."
"hahahhahahaha. oh man. you are ridiculous. equal rights on a mmo. you're betting a thousand."
"you get a gold star for a very basic and incomplete attempt at being eve's answer to michel foucault. however any such argument falls down once you make it a moral argument."
"interbuttes arguments, like the special olympics~~"
"1. give destroyers a real use in game2. moar destroyers3. 3rd bc indeed4. mkvi iteron needed"
"1.more destroyers2.more t2 destroyers3.more t2 frigates with different roles4.more bc5.make the drake the fighting command ship6.more t2 bc with different roles"
"more t2 frigs awesomemore in the dessy line awesomemore in the bc line awesome (and fix the friggen eos)"
"just to remind ccp that blasters need some love . . . even more as web/scram have been rebalanced . . .(as i said previously : no complaints mean no problem)"
"or just give megathrons bonus to mega pulse lasers and we are good. who needs blasters?"
"same situation as many others, only using drone boats now and feel many sp's are wasted on blasters."
"while not as big of a deal as people were making it out to be pre-patch -- it is a significant issue with the gallente race."
"not supported, blasters still fine imo, my astarte popped a player frig orbiting me, even when beeing tracking disrupted."
"not supported. do we really need csm agendas dealing with balancing minute? let them deal wwith issues directly impacting ccp and playerbase interaction. balancing the game should not be their role. deal with things that can make the game better for everyone imo."
"not supported.however, i think it would be nice to build and use hardwirings for boosting different attributes that affect skill learning by 5-10-20%, and those hardirings should only last for a week (it can also be a skill how long they will last, say, lvl5 is a week as maximum). building them can use the dnas drop in missions."
"ok considering i generally reprocess about 150-200 different types of items... infact... due to recently getting orca... i suspect that # to rise quite significantly per reprocess job.butyou want to change it so i'm horribly boggled down, have to install each item by itself. to a maximum of 11? fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffhow about simply remove meta 0 from missions? that's a huge part of the minerals. also from the removal meta0 builders have to start building meta 0 from scratch. this increases demand on minerals.the overall problem with changing the system... insurance will become ineffective... meaning noobs and pvpers cant afford to lose ships... so they stop paying... market epically floods. builders and miners lose lots of isk.who inevitably wins the big win? drone regions."
"*nerfs lootz as a mineral/isk generation medium**gives the isk farmers in their hulks another mode of increasing their control on the eve economy**sits back and watches the money pour into her paypal acc. via isk selling*oh wait......not supported, not in the slightest"
"reading is kewlhuge *groan* on making a simple procedure into a tedious pos based one. pro-tip: people hate hate hate pos mechanics and the extremely boring and ******ed nature of pos and do not want to have to use a pos and the terrible interface and the godawfully slow mechanics you are proposing for what should be a simple action.huge no on this and also i'm adding a you don't know wtf you are talking about, dear op. too bad there is no check boxes for either."
"get over it already."
"since this post is actually related to the issue being raised - the csm did bring it up with ccp. it is being looked at, it's just not coming in apocrypha. as for \"they can work on 2 different things at the same time\" you do realise how big this next expansion is right? they had 11 different teams working on things, they just couldn't fit the blackops review into this expansion in a meaningful way, so it was bumped."
"alright, lets say you are right.do you know how long it would take an experienced game dev to add fuel bays? 1 daysure, it may require 3 days of testing. lets say that if all the stopped working on expansion pack and focused just on fixing game balance issues - the simple fixes, nothing major.they could do most of it in 1 week. they could delay release of expansion by 1 week and put a lot of fixes to game balance that so many people want. it's easy. but they are not going to, it would be against their spirit to let the player be happy. i suppose when ccp was a small company, they had the spirit of going against mainstream, they had balls. but now that spirit is probably buried under layers of bureaucracy - even if there are devs who want to make good game changes, they become incapable, just cogs in profit making machine. at least - this scenario gives some excuse for their bad judgment. i'd hate to think they actually do this on purpose."
"i seriously doubt it will take \"3 days\" to test, develop and get the fuel bay out. there is numerous balancing issues, the code writing needed to do it, and make sure fuel bays won't break the code on the game and that they will actually be recognized in the game. also, you have to do numerous debugging checks as well. as an amateur code writer, i know for a fact that the fuel bay idea is not simple. even from a coding aspect. if it took only three days to introduce fuel bays then the next expansion would have been out already. since it hasn't.....i'm more inclined that this idea is not so simple. especially since they've released it on the test server and i heard there are several problems with features in the expansion. so what? are they incompetent after all these months? or are they human....--isaacp.s. ccp used to be more cavalier with their ideas in the beginning. the only problem is, it ran them into numerous problems. neither way of doing things is perfect. but at this point, ccp feels this is the best way. i'd suggest next time you comment about game issues, don't attack the company. its pointless and makes your argument look weak because your attacking the company, not the issue at hand."
"i wasn't so negative about the company before the quantum rise patch. i can't forgive them for going through with that horrible nerf. they showed total lack of understanding the core game balance issues, and did not respect the eve spirit.it's like if you took mona lisa painting and decided that it needs some improvement, so you paint over it to modify the face to look prettier. sure, to you and your beer buddies it may look like a great improvement, but to people who understand art it would be horrific travesty.i know ccp used to be great, but they changed. they still make great progress with technology, but their game design side is only diminishing. more content != better game"
"i think you need to stand back and look at this objectively.if you discount people hiding in noob corps - especially the alts that run missions or remote rep and the isk farmers - how many people are actually an interactive part of eve?"
"ok, lets look at objectively.first of all, they aren't hiding. they just aren't in player corps. just because you can't pay-to-grief, thats just the way the game is. it's never been a problem before.as for interacting, all of those people, whether in player corps or not, trade, run missions, explore, and mine. they contribute greatly to the over-all market of eve.i think you need to look at this objectively. youre desire to be able to shoot at anyone as long as you put up a down payment, does not overrule the desire of the majority to play the game they want.also, you're not providing the numbers in order to be objective.here they are incase you couldn't find them.there are around 400,000 active characters.half of them are in the 45 npc corps, the other half are in the 34,000! player corps.every solution you whiners have suggested would just catapult the already insane number of small corps even higher. and in the end, people would still keep alts for trading and mining in npc corps.there isn't a way around it that doesn't penalize new players, and those who prefer to play alone.not supported, just like the several dozen times i haven't supported it."
"ignoring my personal views on pvp for a moment, how do you justify the lack of tax and lack of risk (due to being immune from wardecs), while being able to run missions and trade as they please?"
"the risk is inherant in the game, they can still be griefed no matter where they are.as for your little tirade about taxes, high tax rates wouldn't effect traders in the least. nor make a real dent at all in the amounts of money that mission runners make.if you cut out missions rewards, people would still make money from mining, trade, and salvage.your argument could be valid, your solution is laughable."
"how would taxing trade not help?"
"because taxing trade would simply discourage trading as a profession, and would hurt the over-all economy."
"or it would make you join a real corp with a low tax rate."
"or it would make everyone form 1 man corps.and no, increasing price to create corps wouldn't do, restricts new players.no no no no no."
"1: there's already a trade tax... its called a sales tax.2: join a real corp? what kind of an answer is that? what is a \"real corp\" anyway? if your so keen on such a thing then why are you hiding your corp? or posting with your alt for that matter. not very professional of you...tax this.. tax that.... enough already.taxing anyone or anything in this game... good or bad.... is a waste of time.your going to have to realize that isk is just too bloody easy to make.granted as i say that i don't have enough to buy the toys i want... but its easy enough to make a few mil in one sitting as it is.so taxing \"joe gamer\" in \"npc corp\" is nothing short of a yawn and a pathetic fix to your so called holy grail you oh so want to achieve.the only way your going to avoid the npc corp is to fix war decs! (note i said fix them.. not kill them.. not nerf them... fix them... or improve them so its not a griefing tool)end of discussion.start there first... then worry about npc corps. sorry to derail your topic... but the issue orbits around that very problem.and stop with the one liners.... how about putting a little effort into your defense eh?efrim black has it right (as i spoke to him tonight ; o ) )... eve has the unique distinction of freedom of choice in this game... it would be best to keep that aspect... otherwise people will not play it.the sandbox mentality needs to be balanced to all parties.pirate.... industrialist.... the \"dreaded carebear\" and the 0.0 alliance enthusiast.if you push the balance too far in any one particular direction... you screw up the game royally."
"you don't want to take the chance on losing sp related to the t3 ship then don't fly one. problem solved.did you even get on sisi to test them out or did you just hear from the tourney and run straight to the forums to complain??"
"i've had it with ccp gms taking days, weeks, months to respond to petitions. there needs to be a new guaranteed minimum response time, and a clear escalation path with penalties to ccp such as free month of play if > 72 hours without a response, >2 weeks without a resolution."
"thumbs down. forcing gms to respond to 1000s of petitions daily within a certain amount of time is asking the impossible. if you hate it so much, want to take their job over? i thought so... come up with a better idea with handling petitions."
"if the new interface can be moved, closed, etc. by the time it goes live on tq, i'll have no complaints. the present sisi system is lame, though. it makes for really nice screencaps, but it is(at present) a pain to use. that said, it's early in a sisi patch, i'm not going to go crazy just yet."
"/signed.new fitting screen is ahhhhhhhhhhhful"
"how about instead of going crazy over something that is not even done yet! you offer suggestions on how to improve the new fitting screen.the time you spent typing up this worthless rabble you could have typed up something worth while for suggestions on how to make the new fitting screen win.try again..."
"the new fitting screen looks great, actually. it's a welcome change from my part."
"well the fitting screen is probably one of the things that appear to be almost 100% fully implemented and ready to roll, just by looking at the window seems easy to understand the motivation and philosophy behind it's actual design, and it is there where all the flaming across the forum boards comes from, and, being such a radical design change, is probably not going to be pulled out as software companies hate to invest resources implementing something and not milking it later some way or another, time will tell"
"i like how it keeps your ship in the center... showing it off... making you grin and giggle with glee when you fit that big fat laser cannon on it."
"your tracking advantage in case of blasters is only relevant inside your optimal. in falloff you automaticaly start losing damage potential.now pulse lasers don't need to worry much about that. they can change optimal quickly and they have the longest from short range weapons.your tracking advantage is also not usefull if you cannot translate that into effective damage applied to the target or effective damage denied to the target (by you being faster than he can track). both are only realised in a very short optimal window with blasters. the same for autocannons does not make sense, as they are almost 99% times in falloff and lasers 99% times in optimal.anyway pity the csm turned down this one. i hope ccp realises the importance."
"i expect that a large part of why this got turned down was that the proposal is completely broken: the proposed \"solution\" would ensure that all shots from all turrets would hit all targets within the ranges 1m to 1,386m.if you still think that blasters and autocannons need a rebalancing, then write up a proper case for it and resubmit it for review by the csm and ccp. in writing up your case, don't bother to include a \"solution\" to whatever problem you find. you don't want your case shot down because of a flaw in your solution like this one was."
"this tbh - i didn't agree with the proposed solution, which is why i voted no"
"pity this case is not only about blasters and autocannons ... this can be extended to proper rebalancing of all turrets. however nobody does see it ...this proposal is introducing a very important behavior into the tracking mechanic."
"its effect on other types of turrets is one of the main reason why this is such a bad idea.did you not bother to look at what this would do to every other type of turret: like i already said, this change as proposed would cause every turret to always hit for ranges under 1.3km. it would be impossible to miss! your turret could have an optimal and falloff of 1m and you could not miss a shot at 1.3km. tracking would be irrelevant, seige-mode dreads would hit interceptors for full damage. scout/heavy drones would also never miss, they all operate within 1.3km.it would reduce the game to bumper boats: fit the biggest ship with the biggest guns, drive up to your target and stay within 1.3km hoping that your damage will break his tank before his damage breaks yours.it short complete stupidity!"
"i noticed in the pos exploit explanation dev blog that they claimed 30 t2 bpo's were removed from the game.that, on top of the fact that t2 bpo's only existed in limited numbers to begin with, and over time other t2 bpo's have been lost (pvp, inactive accts, etc) , made me think of a question.t2 bpo's that are removed from the game put an extra strain on the market - owning one of those bpo's even post-invention was a significant advantage, being able to create the ships/modules for cheaper than inventors - or just copying bpc's.is there a system in place to get \"lost\" t2 bpo's back in circulation, or are we eventually going to be playing in a game where no t2 bpo's exist anymore?if so, what kind of system would be in place? i recall the origional \"t2 lottery\" system wasnt very popular.edit - fixed subject title typo"
"theoretically, yeah, it could happen. practically, valuable collectables will never go out of circulation until the next fall of western civilization(or, in this case, final shutdown of the eve servers). the number lost is tiny, and the people who own them protect them jealously. i'd bet there's a good number that have never once left station and never once will. and no, there's no mechanism to get them back into circulation. they could theoretically restart the lottery, but there'd be riots."
"well my daughter inspired this one, when she asked me if there was a way to tell how old characters were. if there was a way to tell what character was the oldest.would be a neat little feature if the model could somehow reflect the age, and maybe have screenshots from each year..well at least some weird feature to show avatar developments.."
"hmmm, my char is now 4 years older than he was when i created him..... i doubt that there are big differences"
"and i bet he didn't even change his clothes. yuck..."
"no need... only a new body every now and then :d"
"gernal thumbs up for being able to make small changes to our character images over time."
"the characters are immortal due to clone technology so they can have the clone every age they want. [you can change avatar piucture for money so that would reflect a remodeling of clones i think] which lets: \"aging\" have no meaning for capsuleers"
"i think it would be cool if the avatar could be changed. at any time.no, not facial structure. but clothing, hairstyle, backdrop, light, position of head, target of eyes and makeup.same character, different mood. and i'd really like to switch my make-up style every now and then."
"cool, but really annoying. right now you can see who a character is with a glance at their avatar. if this proposal came in, that wouldn't work any more. most people wouldn't use it, and the few who did would just cause confusion."
"you could probably run such a tournament yourself, if you were so interested. maybe not you personally, but the player base as a whole could. i've seen some get run at times in the past. it's probably more work than it's worth for ccp to host such a thing, unfortunately."
"my only concern with this is the safe passage in and out of the fight locations. if i had a safe area, i could do this rather easily myself."
"do it in highsec, flip cans before the fight. alternately, if it gets big enough, make it a condition of entrance that everybody will be on hand to provide security - 64 battleships is a lot of guards."
"wow, i don't know why i didn't think of that to begin with. what a noob am i? :)"
"hey, it had to be said, just in case you actually were a noob. seriously though, ccp doesn't have the time or manpower to administer tournaments all that often, certainly not as often as your proposal suggests. thus, we get to do it ourselves. unless you have a concrete proposal for what ccp can do to make it easier that is actually worth their time, there isn't really anywhere this thread can go."
"im feeling the love already ^^"
"tracktor beams keep wrecks and cans at 500m and when fitted into a non-marauder class ship they go at 500m/s (1km/s for marauders), thats your speed limit right there, if you go faster your trackored item will lag behind you until it gets out of range and deactivates or you stop and wait for it to reach your ship again, you can limit your speed to just 500m/s by clicking inside the speed indicator"
"item tabsthis"
"i'm going to agree with him. --isaac"
"in short: make it so you can train skills on more than one character at a time! it would be nice to experiment with different play styles, but lost sp is to be had with the current method. of course, keep the restriction of one login per account...obviously.anyone support this? although, i haven't thought much of the consequences considering my brain's shot...perhaps it's time for sleep too..."
"1 character training per account = $20 (or whatever the sub fee is)3 characters training per account = $203 accounts training 1 character each = $60do you see where this is heading?"
"if you just price the additional training slots the same as a new account it's of no benifit.how about something like this:1 account 1 skill training = $301 account 2 skills training = $451 account 3 skills training = $60i'd be willing to invest extra money to skill more toons with this structure. it saves me some money, yet benifits ccp as well."
"if they did that - sure, i'm all for it"
"if you mean sov mechanics need a bit of adjustment then i agree. if you mean that it should be made more safe to encourage more carebears out there then i disagree. that space is empty because somebody, who used to live there, doesn't anymore. most of the time they don't live there anymore because somebody else kicked them out. empty space in eve is an opportunity waiting to be filledi'm well aware of what goes on in the markets. many of my fellow corp members have gotten rich beyond my wildest dreams doing market pvp. they've even explained it to the rest of us to try and help us make money like they do. market trading is arguably the most profitable activity in the game that doesn't require pos's or living in dangerous space.here's the issue though... i hate trading, i hate it with the fire of a thousand suns. i've dabbled with it and i just hate doing it, my brain gets angry whenever i buy or sell anything for a purpose other than building a ship or clearing hangar space for cash. so i choose not to do it. the result of which is that i'm not very well off. i'm unlikely to move into cap ships and i don't own any neat faction ships.does that mean that i think trading should change, just because i don't enjoy it? no i don't. it's well balanced and functional for lots of people. those people will continue to get richer while i get by on datacores and missions. i don't have access to riches like theirs because of a choice i made, and i can accept that.access to 0.0 is no different. it takes sacrifice and commitment to live out there. it takes strong leadership and hard decisions to survive in that environment. those who choose not to play like that have made a choice that will deny them a reasonable chance at living in that space. i don't see why ccp should change what's been working so well just because some players want reward without any risk."
"no, it doesn't need to cater to anyone. it needs to provide challenges and rewards, opportunities and consequences, the things that keep people interested in trying and help them learn when they fail. catering is having things handed to you, eve doesn't operate that way."
"i'm not really sure in what dictionary \"catering\" is defined as \"having things handed to you\", but it's not a very good one.to \"cater\" is to provide or supply something desirable to people. anyone who's hired a caterer for a party knows they don't just hand over those giant cheese platters for nothing (hooray for monterey jack!).if eve didn't \"cater\" to subscribers there wouldn't be anyone posting on this board about catering... or anything else."
"if i had 100 isk for every single-sentence \"how did issler get elected?\" post... i'd be able to open an ice cream shop in every station in every empire system... and probably a few dozen in 0.0.she was elected the same way everyone else was... but i see some other people have already explaned how this works.the mcskanky \"mystery\" is solved! woo woo!!!this is most likely asking for waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay too much but i'll do it anyway (i'm goofy that way!):can someone spell out specifically what issler has done and/or not done and/or said and/or eaten... or whatever... that's really chapped your pod?but wait! there's more!!!then can someone (preferably the same \"someone\") even go completely nusto bananas and specifically back up their \"complaint\" with a good reason why issler is wrong about what she ate... or whatever... and why they have a much better idea of what she should have eaten... or whatever.maybe she should have ordered pizza instead of eating that giant cheese platter from the caterers.five paragraphs of personal insults are great and all but \"complaints\" make a little more sense when you... well... let folks know what you're \"complaining\" about.specifically!i know i'm a little slow, but the only thing mcspanky mentions specifically in his post is that he thinks issler is \"complaining\" about war dec's. i really wish he'd quoted this \"complaint\", it must be quite a ham-doozy to have gotten his implants in such a pickle! i can't seem to find it in either of the threads he mentions.oh yeah! it would be super-dooper helpful too if he could list the quote where issler claims to be making an \"official statement\" about \"policies\" on \"behalf\" of all csm's. pretty, pretty pleeeeeease!but even if she did complain, lemmie get this straight... you're complaining about someone complaining?did i get it?just wondering.and \"complaining\" is \"shameful\".... how... again?i know mcskanky must have carrrrrrrefully studied each and every post in that second thread he's all bonkers discombobulated about, so he for sure saw the posts there from another csm.as mcskanky is sooooo very concerned about csm's acting \"respectable\" at all times, i'm sure he's absolutely, ferociously indignant, like crazy space monkey bread mad about the \"shameful\" behavior of this csm as well!!!!this csm not only takes personal potshots at other players but even makes fun of an alliance name too!!!!not only that, at one point he seems to say that he's using a war dec as a bullying tactic to influence another csm (he later says he was just being \"sarcastic\").i know this is teeny-tiny potatoes (like those little round red ones, i just looooove those!) next to someone \"complaining\" *gasp!* twice!!!! *faint!* but i know mcskanky would most certainly agree, it's still not the least little teensy bit \"respectable\" and might even be a full-blown case of \"appalling\" \"misrepresentation\"!... or at the very least, \"poor smack and poor taste\".i'm sure happy... errr... i mean mcskanky... is busy pounding his wooden spoons on the keyboard right now, typing up a long-winded (but extremely vague) post expressing his dismay about this other csm's outrageous outrage!!!!... or maybe just \"how did issler get ellcted? llololoololololololololol!!!!!111\""
"crime and punishment called... they what there troll back."
"you want to learn things faster? do learning skills, think of it as university , people that just have high schoo(crap learning skills),take longer to do stuff. too bad if you dont like learning skills. they add a flavor to the game you idiots wont be satisfied till eve turns into wow for babies."
"thats not enough. blackops are still battleship hulls and need at least a higher sensor ressolution ( or some way to negate the cloak's ressolution penalty ) to be usefull in combat. for a pure logistics plathform an industrial hull with no weapons would have been enough."
"sounds like you should be playing second life, not eve ..."
"heh it wont even be eve as we know it way ccp are going, they dumb this game down anymore it will be a space version of wow. nearly at that point already tbh."
"there may be no cinema, but if you check the forums there is a video section. tourist attractions - the eve gate, the monolith, crielere, the concord station in jita, the graveyard (not sure if it's still there), the titan wreck, the monuments in amarr. there is no bar, but it's coming in wis. strip joints can be found on minmatar outposts.you can get wild roe's and various other cuisine from the market, the minmatar have a rich cultural heritage (read the chronicles), check the sales channels for exotic items, people build pos and outposts daily, the chronicles and eon cover the library, and i agree there is no opera. as an opera fan, i'm not sure it's really missing tho. as for it's own beer - why, we have quafe and a plethora of narcotics to enjoy.you'd be surprised how many people to get married - i've been to 2 weddings myself, why have children when you are immortal, there are a few universities, at least one pod-pilot run (eve university), and why have medical facilities when again, we're effectively immortal. the amarr have temples littering their space, most caldari pilots graduate from military academies, the gallente are free thinkers not tourists, and the minmatar fly their junkyards.astronomical oddities abound, do some scannign and i'm sure you'll find at least one, strange lifeforms exist apart from the jove, unless you consider fedo's normal, i already mentioned one type of flora, why have restaurants when no-one would frequent them...the s****y soiree is right here on the gal-net, there's plenty of comedy (and tragedy) and songs can be found here too.hope that helpsoz"
"or worse 7chan, or possibly sa... oh wai.."
"i am mainly aiming at the option to reassign attributes every 6 month.this has several impacts:1. it devaluates attributes altogether: suddenly it does not matter much what your attributes are, you can just adjust them to suit your training, why have attributes then in the first place?this also makes race choices mostly irrelevant except for appearance.2. it basically forces players to train in 6 month cycles (e.g. 6 month of perc/willpower based skills only, followed by 6 month of int/mem based skills, etc)just so they don't fall behind because they train not with maximum efficiency.it is also not great for new players since the \"you have to train learning skills first\" tip gets replaced by the even more tedious and limiting tip of \"you need to train int/memory based skills first starting with learning skills after maxing your attributes to that field\".it takes a lot of freedom out of the training and lets face it, freedom is fun. having the impulse of \"hey i should train for xyz now\" been immediately curbed by \"oh wait my attributes are aligned to another field for another 3 months\" is just not good and fun gameplay.3. it increases overall training time. while this is an odd thing to complain about on the first glance, granted, it means that the accomplishment of older players gets diminished and is also bad for ccp's business in the long run unless they introduce a lot of extra skills to train as people reach points where they run out of (useful) skills to train faster.moreover this puts those of the new players at an disadvantage that are not able to plan ahead (and many of them wont quite likely) and organize their skills in 6 month brackets. people that play on a whim and easily give in to impulses will be frustrated by their slower then average progression.i am not arguing against a one-time attribute reassignment, but the option to do it every 6 months does not seem like a good idea.alternatives:a) make it a one time only option (two times for new characters, first time to get out of the evenly distributed starting attributes and another time considerably later in their career to make up for early made mistakes just like the old players are allowed to correct theirs)this allows people with \"gimped\" attributes to fix that issue and chose a more balanced attribute set without leading necessarily to the min-maxing enforcement the 6 month cooldown does (as outlined above).b) make it only possible to switch a single attribute point (or at least a severely limited number) each time. the timeframe could be shortened instead, e.g. allow reassigning of 1 point per month or so. there could even be a skill introduced that reduces the cooldown of the reassignment e.g. from 2 month to 1 month with lvl 5 or similar.that way characters can fix their broken attribute allocation over time or gear their character (slowly) towards a new career, again without allowing for the min-maxing that an instant complete attribute switch every 6 month would bring."
"attributes in eve are a little bit at a tangent to those you might expect from a more classic mmo as it is not very obvious how each attribute will actually help a new player with their desired role or career path. in more classic mmos a player often has the choice between \"magic\", \"strength\", \"speed\" etc that have fairly obvious outcomes. e.g if you want to be a \"warrior\" you beef up your \"strength\". i still today could not tell you off the top of my head what attributes to go for it you wanted to be a miner or a pirate or a freighter. so i guess ccp want to allow newer players to be able to change their choices if they turned out not to be good ones or if, after a few months, they decide to change their career path in game.that said, i see really no reason why a year old+ player should have the ability to tweak their attributes according to their current training set. like amy says, this almost makes the attributes and their choices pointless.my suggestion would be to: allow players under 1 year old to change their attributes every 3 months but not then after a year."
"honestly, when i frrst heard about it i was of the mind \"woot, finally can dump that charisma i put 3 points into when i first started\".respeccing does devalue the attributes because you will get people respeccing every 6months so they can plan their skills accordingly, but in the end i'd rather have no attributes at all. level them all to a standardized amount and leave the skills to train based on rank. then i had the thought - what about specialisation. with respeccing it means i can max out certain attributes, specialise in an area i want, and if i decide later that i want to specialise elswhere, respec and move to that area. i won't lose the skills i already have, but because i have respecced to maximise training elsewhere, it means if an expansion happens in the middle of the respec cycle i can't just go back to my old specialisation.i'm waffling, but i guess my point is that attributes are currently a hindrance to open gameplay, so respeccing should help fix that."
"i believe adding the ability for a well skilled hacking/salvaging spec pilot to be able to hack and unanchored such towers to be a great idea.i also believe it really should be possible to do to active towers but make it very easy to disrupt the hacker. ie make a modal that could only be put on say t1 industrial ships or other large sig radius hacking ships that would be capable of offline gun's for active towers and then a structure that would need to be anchored for 24 hours or more if needed to unanchored and scoop up the tower.the hacking structure should be expensive, large, and week say a fleet of 4-5 frigs could destroy hacking structure in just a few minutes if was not protected. also both the modal and structure should be considered aggressive acts and send a eve-mail to owner corp. and alliance.this would allow alternative ways to fighting pos's other than just fielding dreads and would make things much more interesting and fun."
"i disagree here - if the shield is up, no change to current mechanics is required. if for example though you can get someone inside a tower when a pos comes out of reinforced, you could \"hack\" it and online it yourself rather than simply blow it up. as i see this mechanic, hacking an offlined tower would \"break\" the structure, meaning you'd have to go through the entire setup procedure as if you'd simply ejected the items into space. this would make for a huge change to pos warfare, as you'd only require the firepower/time to knock a tower's shields out, not knock out both it's shields and the tower's hp. this would make smaller and more timezone specific alliances more capable of assaulting towers, and should thus make for more fluid gameplay.another tactic often used is to placehold moons with offlined towers in cynojammed systems to prevent others from taking the moons. this mechanic has the potential to render that mechanic entirely obsolete, forcing any deployed pos to be kept active or not kept at all - something that i feel could only do good things for alliance warfare. there's also the possibility of being able to \"hack\" a tower into reinforced mode even when it still has fuel, forcing the owners to come to the pos and remedy the problem - yet another method for picking a fight.i would be happy with being able to only hack unanchored towers (and maybe cans? hmm?) of course - that'd be a huge improvement over current mechanisms - but being able to hack any defenseless tower would be filled with so much win that words simply cannot describe it."
"i smell a new sub-profession."
"really ? i'm both surprised you liked it and surprised you understood it :)i will expose this to my hardcore, irl, carebear, silent on the forums, mate. i'm sure he will come with dozens of ideas (and they will be better than mines) ! :)for education ministry, i had a few ideas i came a long time ago about skills masters. the thread is here (it's locked anyway). maybe it would be a cool thing to have skill books produced in 0.0. it's not a perfect idea, i recognize it, but maybe this mechanics could be of some use there.the problem is doing only this gameplay is boring (because it's time based again : i wonder how could we change some industry activities to be fast paced). anyway time based or not, what if you had to grow trees to produce books ? :p i'm sure a lot of things could be made to enhance this system.for health, trade or other minitries, maybe you could make a parallel soverainty system. ie : with the classic one, you control the stations, and with the colony one, you control the station services. so if you want to fully occupy a territory, you need 1 pvper for 1 industrialist (or 2 for 1, or 5 for 1, but not 10 for 1 as today).same here : configuring the health system once would be boring because you don't have to come back when it's done. maybe you could control more variable than this : station services + colony output, maybe. or something more on top.i don't know.there's a lot to do anyway with planets. i loved the first pre-alpha-concept-art ui screenshots ccp made in fanfest 2007(?), with countries on the planets. it proposed any character to be a local hero so any character would have the feeling of acheivement... do not forget pod pilots are suposed to be at the very least rockstars, or the richest guys in this universe. we are special because we can pilot pods and not anonymous in eve's background.for fast paced gameplay, i'm thinking maybe of something like this. it's a crap idea but i'm devellopping here :let's imagine, for exemple for political ministry, a gameplay with something like a 3d rubbick cube, timed so you can't pause the game and enter the combination in a computing software and with balance gameplay. what is balance gameplay : it's like fitting your ship : tank or gank. so solving the puzzle is fast paced, asking to make choices over other solutions, and (i hope) not boring.this could be used for controling global things, for exemple, truesec, trade fee, or various system bonuses, even environnements. so you want to give bonuses on health ministry ? solve the puzzle with these choices. trade ministry ? go the trade solution the best you can. etc.or : a better ratting system would be at the expense of exploration or mining belts, for exemple. a better trading system (less taxes) would be at the expense of something else (docking fees ?). not a single perfect solution but lots of compromises. you could configure your territory. sure there would be better place, as today, to rat, mine, or moon mine, but with this you could make a better place to live there (this is what are suposed to do carebears, no ?)maybe it's crap ideas. anyway, i will give your feedback to my carebear friend, i'm sure he will be glad and have ideas for me to tell here :)-edit- i'm thinking about the oooooooooooold idea of ship crew. what if... some colony output would be... guess what :) ship crew.what would be ship crew, i let this to the dozens of people that had good ideas on that (imho it could be used for some kind of heat resistance, the problem of heat is that it depends to much of module activation lag... a lot of people had better ideas anyway"
"supported"
"i agree with him, raw dps isn't everything. the maelstrom is an incredible close range, small gang ship capable of tanking ~1000dps and dealing out 800with guns alone (crossing 1k with drones). the phoon might deal more damage but the mael is going to tank considerably more. minmatar bses really do need a look at, as the tempest really is worse than the mael in every way apart from the price but i don't think these changes are right."
"supported."
"just fly the vaga."
"any news on this one?"
"nah it's not broken anyway."
"signed.maby this is a good excuse to overhaul the capital art assets for the minmies - less of the old-school scrapheep challenge more of the resergent angrey looking lump of sculpted black mettal (see also the t3 concept art)"
"couldn't agree more. a shame so few people ever seemed to see this thread from ccp requesting ideas about exactly that. it's a sticky even."
"1.0"
"supported. where's our industry focused patch which has been put at the bottom of the pile for years now....sort it out tbh"
"that is about the same... no pay - no skillsand in your case:no play - no skillsstop crying you dudes, ccp could care less if 4 dudes got mad at them and cancel their suscribptionskthx ;)"
"skill training is not the game. it is part of the game, for sure, but it is not the game. that would suck.someone (joe) who ghost trains ____ to level v is at a disadvantage to the other guy (bob), who trains the same skill to level v, because bob is still playing for the month or so, making teh isk to buy his ship the the new skill will get him, or just isk in general. joe, after he comes back, sure, he can fly the ship, but he can't afford the ship.ghost training puts the player at a disadvantage to players who don't."
"more destroyers please! :d(buff them too while you're at it.)"
"stop looking at eft and start flying blaster ships to understand the issue."
"no, not quite. i'm suggesting that reprocessing could be done by item group e.g. drones, ammo, shield modules, armour modules and so on, with greater efficiency/speed if you reprocess items of the same type, and reduced efficiency if you mix things up.i'm not suggesting making them mandatory. i'm suggesting putting them there for people who want to invest time and isk into a profession and see better returns for the extra work. it would tie in with the bit above about reprocessing different item groups separately for better yields.thanks for the link - i knew i'd seen the table before but i couldn't quite remember where.bear in mind that adding a job-based refining system would also have the effect of making it harder for macro miners to operate, as they'd need to train lots of characters to manage all the jobs (which, incidentally, would leave a helpful audit trail). also, some of the higher tier refining skills could be made untrainable on trial accounts."
"i like the idea as long as it dont touches what hics are doing atm.also cant see why ppl continue to babble about their precious 0.0maybe they should read the whole thread."
"no... it's supposed to be an insult you moron!get your head out of your ass and go back to wow.if you can't read the bloody posts people post without getting off your high horse then you have no business making stupid whine's like this.your fail is epic... and you obviously do not know how to play the game.its so clear to me now... you got ganked at a gate camp and it was done by a hic pilot who knew what he was doing.this is your pathetic attempt at getting rid of them because your tired of getting podded.fess up or stfu oh and the door is this way... wow is waiting for you."
"heres an argument dipstick.premise 1 : hic's fulfill their current role very well according to the eve community.premise 2 : you can not provide proof otherwise in your op, or in your subsequent posts.conclusion : hic's do not need to be changed.now gtfo out of here and stop wasting our time."
"cba to repeat the good points made above, so: no"
"these things need more than just a fuel bay, they need a reason to be used in a gang. hac's and recons have specific areas which they're better than cruisers (e-war or usually range/damage) but there's really no reason to use a black ops bs outside of jump bridging dst's.they need something, i personally like increased range, tracking, or the ability to bridge any ship smaller than a bs."
"basically what the csm guy was saying is that ccp cannot be arsed with making black ops a priority vs the other exciting things they are doing. given that there is possibly only 10 serious black ops players in the whole game, i doubt they would see it high on the list of items anyway.however it does take time to plan things. even small changes might need to go through various teams etc in order to make it to implementation. so while the coding time might be 20 mins, their could days or weeks of red tape and ballancing changes. coding is usually the smallest part of things like balance changes.so ephemeron, the question you should be asking is not 'it wont take long to fix' but rather \"how far has ccp moved along resolving the issue's with black ops? are we still at the drawing board?\"basically, ccp have relised that black ops is a mostly waste of crap. they do not even have a common design to go around them - the entire black ops system was created by somebody who took tier 1 bs and just added a jump drive. this is apparent due to the complete random nature of black ops - a ew ship, a droanboat, a jumpdrive typhoon and a laser boat that lacks the cap to mwd out of a bubble, but is commonly used as a jumpdrive hauler. its just a bunch of random ships with random roles. so you see ephemeron, the entire black ops line was possibly developed by some guy who probebly never solo/small gang pvp'ed and probebly took 5 minutes in balancing the ships by just re-using the stock tier 1 bs. ccp really need to scrap the entire black ops concept and go back to the drawing board and re-do them ground up as pvp ship."
"i have a name you know i'm not sure about scrapping them, but a serious look about what role they are supposed to fulfil and adjusting them based on that is definitely needed. that is however not a small task, so while it isn't high on the queue of things to do, it is on the queue.at this point there is no reason for csm to re-raise the issue as ccp already know about it, we can however keep bugging ccp to look at them and as a sin owner, i do want them fixed, so i do point out their lack of use when i can."
"the concept of a battleship with cloaking bonus is a good one. it's something new and it does go well with roaming pvp in hostile territory.i would prefer to see some improvements in their ability to fit tank and gank. in a way, they would be an alternative to marauders.i don't think ccp would go that way tho, they don't have clarity of vision nor the will to make bold moves in game design. granted, they are good at pushing tech"
"them selling plexes directly is dumb.also, calling them plex is just as dumb."
":(didn't feel like making a big long post, nor do i want to argue if having a ingame item that affects your account should be in the game. or if i can scam or steal these items from people.it just seems like every game that a company begins to sell ingame items for revenue starts to degrade it's standards. now it's simply account time, but in the future maybe the only way to get a t4 ship will be paying for them. of couse, to make people want to spend their money on said item they must be vastly better then other opitions. then the game goes down the horrible path of, \"look at that cool ingame item, too bad i got to spend more money to get it.\""
"yeah, plexes should at the very least have their fitting requirements doubled.hmmm, i'm worried that you won't understand my sarcasm. just to be safe: your post is very stupid."
"reading your post makes me feel dumb.wow is that way --->"
"fix'd."
"i don't think plex's are dumb at all. in fact, from ccp's point of view, it's good business sense. now people who are really good at making money in game, but may be financially strapped don't have to stop playing, thus reducing the flow of revenue to ccp. they can buy a plex, which someone else already paid for, meaning that in a sense, someone else paid for their game time. players get to stay online, and ccp continues to make money at the same rate (approximately).of course all of that may be the 3/4 of a billion iskies that selling two of them put into my wallet talking.--vel"
"plex's are pretty much the same as time cards, but time cards you are not allow to scam from people. i assume we can steal and scam plex's from other players.the issue i'm more of concern with is if ccp starts selling one in game item for real money, why not sell another one? it makes good business sense and i'm sure all of us seen this in other online games. i don't want eve to go downt hat road, where ccp needs money and they decide they should sell ingame items to make revenue. i don't think they're going do this today or tomorrow, but in a few years this could be a reality. there is already a way to buy gtc, it works fine. they added a way to make gtc into plex's a ingame item, that's alright. why do we need the ability to buy plex's straight from ccp? why do we want to send a message that we will buy ingame items straight from ccp?"
"omg!!!!i can't buy a frigate because i don't have 20 bucks!omg!!!!!!! wth!!!!! <spaz> <twitch> <dies>wow is that way don't let the door hit you on the way out."
"because it's easier than 30day gtcs. it doesn't compromise the thriving 60-day gtc we currently have going.it's also a nice alternative to subscriptions via credit card, that i now use.so stop you're paranoid delusions and stop cluttering up this board you imbecile."
"since this is one of the few places you can simply say 'no this is a really bad idea', i'm going to enjoy that freedom. no thanks - i rather like my militia npc corp just the way it is.drake & efrim have pretty much got the arguments covered - i would also buy them a beer in-game, but it's still waiting on ccp completing ambulation... (and i shall be really really scared/impressed if they remember by the time it is out)."
"there's a new sport coming! stalking!just kidding.o7"
"limit the types of ships you can fly if in a noob corp perhaps."
"going to add you. already now buddies with drake over our assembly exploits. don't know about a beer, but i could always use an extra assault ship."
"you're right in priciple, but its never going to happen. good luck and all that, but the day a change actually nerfs macroers/isk farmers i will eat my hat."
"/gives him 10 gallon hat"
"war deck mechanics are arguably one of the most important things that need reworking. war decking needs to be looked at first and the following are some things that i have just popped into my head since i have read the thread. these are just some rambling thoughts.- how about coming up with some mechanic that allows highsec corps and alliances to create some form of soverignty that effects high sec pos operations. nothing crazy but something to fight over. - allow players to join any npc corp.- create a npc corporate interaface including fleet mechanics that you can utilize if you choose to be flagged. but many things need to be limited, for example no corp hangers.- allow npc corps to compete for this but they flag them selves as active for war decking if some entity wants to diminish the local npc corp soverignty holders. other npc corp memebers, that do not want to gain the benefits the active npc'ing offers, recieve a slight tax as any other player corp would, and it goes towards the upkeep of the active npc side. i think this has some crazy rp potential.but then again the above would be lofty at best for i know little of programming.slade"
"eject - tadaaa no sp lost."
"agreed.sp should not be a commodity like isk."
"...level 1 ranked skills....wah...oh noes, i blew up my ship and lost just a few days worth of training. oh boo hoos. whatever will i do? you guys need to take a look at this from outside your tiny box that you seem so stuck in. and no, i'm not going to humor you into why i'm saying this. if you can't figure it out for yourself then maybe you should go try hello kitty online. or better yet...go check out neopets. that might be more to your liking."
"i really hate this idea, a lot. all it serves to do is encourage use in pve and discourage it for pvp, which is utterly not something eve needs right now. on the off chance people do decide to risk sp while pvping, it actually discourages skill training, since you risk more sp when you're better with the ship. either way, it's not making the ships any more precious, and in fact, makes them less desirable to fly. especially when large scale combat in eve already makes losses essentially up to a coin toss of whether the game responds to your commands before you die."
"no, it's bad."
"those who don't want to risk the loss shouldn't use the ships... i don't understand the problem. people who don't like to lose implants don't use them in combat. people who are unwilling to lose expensive rigs don't use them in combat. people who are unwilling to lose faction mods don't use them in combat. don't use them if you don't like the risk vs. reward ratio. i plan to try one (at least) out. probably with expensive rigs and faction mods - risk is fun."
"this. pay close attention to this one, class."
"ejecting is fail. just complete fail as a solution for preventing sp loss imo. t3 as it is implemented is going to be for epeen wars in empire, and maybe to fotm for the next alliance tournament. not a regular line ship for most pvper's.risk vs. reward could have been handled much better tbh, see here for an idea which could have been fun, non-disruptive to skill training and yet maintain consequences for flying and losing t3 ships."
"your tears: delicious"
"no tears here, just trashing a stupid game idea that could have been implemented in a better way."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"not supported.never had one that took more than 24 hours.... maybe 48 on a bad day."
"nope. the last thing you want to do is start offering free play time if a petition takes longer than a set amount of time to get a response. then the gms will see a massive flood of petitions come in as people try to abuse the system for free game time.not a good idea.besides - i have never had a petition take very long, with one exception - a bugged pos that needed some investigation by, well, whoever goes and investigates those things, and i specifically mentioned that it was a low priority item and they could take their time."
"the petitions i've submitted have always been handled in a relatively short amount of time. i think the longest was about 72 hours for a non-critical issue; and it was over a weekend. i don't see a need for this one - no support."
"terrible idea, working in customer support is a thankless job as it stands. and you want to put more pressure on them?i for one think that the gms are excellent and have responded to my inquires and petitons within hours of opening a petition."
"i feel your pain and frustration with long petition responses. i too had to wait a little over 2 weeks for a response to lost implants. issue here is volume. with the ammount of petitions filed in obsurd to put a time limit on them. suck it up and let them do their job."
"well i can see the issue in general, and to a extent i agree however to put in penalties to gm's is wrongnow penalties for people putting in petitions purposefully to either waste time, or multiple petitions for the same reason seems adequate, to try and cut down on the amount of petitions they get,also im a advocate of trying to get gm's to actually read the petition from the pov of the petitioner in the first instance and/or get the people handling petitions some basic in-game knowledge ( i know a lot of gm's play the game but i also know a lot dont)so i vote 'no' to this but would vote yes to a petition system overhaul to a) reduce the amount of petitions b) get some sensible answers from gm's regarding petitions c) improve how the gm's deal with people (ive received some very curt replys in the past bordering on abuse of powers)d) improve game knowledge of some gm's e) have some clearer guidelines and answers to the more common reasns people petition and finally to standardise handling - differant people get differant answers on the same type of petition depending who you talk to."
"zomg drake, i always thought that \"not supported.\" was a part of your signature"
"the great and legendary karbacca agrees with this servant. ccp shall implement this at once. the great and legendary karbacca commands it. failure to do so will only end in pain. ccp, you have been warned.the great and legendary karbacca has spoken. /end thread"
"new screen > old screen."
"hey... i may be grumpy... but i'm not stupid.x o d"
"a very accurate description of blaster boats ..."
"only when flown by fools"
"been asking for something like this for a long time, well articulated and i hope implimented"
"i kept reading, and this was meh faces."
"he means (thumbs up)just making sure.: o )"
"that would be like adding a police force controlled by the current sov. holder alliance, lots of corruption and player milking, to get what? a non-lawless lawless nullsec space, did you saw the loop?that part of eve exist today and does not require players to work to get it running, it is called empire, has lots of markets and a lot of player interactiongranted its not nullsec, dosn't have juicy belts and juicy endless respawns of 1mil isk rats, but it is fairly safemy experience in nrds space was awful, once a roaming gang is spotted, all players start to run to the nearest station and hide inside until well after the 'bad people' is miles awaythat is, the interaction is mostly based on fear, because most of them feel somewhat protected by the nrds and dosn't bother to learn about how to survive in real 0.0, ask ushrakan pilots if in doubt"
"bit of a necro, but very topical. i'd ask a) why has ccp felt the need to post this kind of thread in game development, and b) why can't we have this sort of moderation in f&i?it's a very cut-down version of what batolemaeus wrote about in f&i.it's not that i mind, i'm more just confused as to what the point of f&i is when features and ideas are requested in an entirely different forum?"
"signed"
"aye/signed"
"t2 bpos are really interesting. personally, i'd see them taken out.t1 bpos should still exist - they are more \"open source\" and should only require a one-time license to run production.however, in rl the high-tech items require an ongoing r&d department. if you want to produce t2, there should be a cost associated with r&d, and requiring invention fits that model.since new technology isn't created in eve, once you get a t2 bpo you never have to worry about research. too simple imo, it really closes off a big profession."
"as i see it there is not problem current t2 bpo holders have a slight advantage yes but one can only hope that over the next few years these bpo's will also get removed by mistakes of there owner. as for just simply removing them that's not a option it would cause the owners to riot and rightfully so they have paid great deals of isk to get them usually and i do not think ccp should ever just remove items owned by players unless it was gained though a exploit or cheat witch these bpo's were not."
"removed them already, you given t2 bpo holders long enough to realize invention is how t2 items will be produced."
"and all the people who made hot chick avatars gonna be staring at old grannies in 5 years? heh"
"the current rate is 14.95 usd per month. what if we went with 19.95 usd per month for 2 characters training and 24.95 for three. this way, ccp would still get more money per month, and the characters would train up.the only problem i see with this is implementation of the gtcs, but we could just have them worth a general amount (60 day = 29.95 game cost), so a 60 day gtc for an account training two characters would only be worth 45 days of game time, or 38 days for three characters. does this sound like a reasonable idea for both the playerbase and ccp?"
"ffs dont give him to us..."
"sure why not. lets fire up the way back machine and set it to fall 2006.i had just started playing eve and had a few aquiantances that were helping me get started. we decided that we wanted to join a player corp together and so one of them went hunting. after a week or so that person discovered tada-o and we all decided to join. tada-o was a member of the bruce alliance and as they were war decced by mc we ended up joining a week later when it ended.initially things seemed fine and with how green i was i wouldn't have really noticed if they weren't. tada-o wasn't really organized, in that they had no real forums and a public yahoo group, containing little information, was the only out of game resource. i assumed this was normal, until i found the link for the bruce alliance forums and signed up. what i found was that this corp was the member of a very active up and coming alliance. within a week or two i had absorbed everything i could from the alliance forums and began participating in alliance ops.it didn't take long to notice that tada-o was in the alliance but didn't really do anything. sure they offered reasonably priced ships to alliance members but that was pretty much it. most members sat in high sec and mined, nobody went on ops. except for a few exceptions i was always the only tada-o member participating with the alliance.a little more time went by and the issue became even more obvious. we had a spy issue, that spy ended up being in our corp. during war decs the people getting popped due to carelessness were mainly in our corp. after a particularly exciting pvp op that i attended with xenios alfar and katamarino of blazing angels i decided it was time to move. i joined blazing angels so as to remain with bruce but also to be in a corp with people who had the same goals as the alliance.things seemed quiet for a while, but it didn't take long. bruce moved to syndicate in the pc9 cluster and was doing well. tada-o had grown and seemed to be improving at least slightly. then one day it happened, at least half her corp rejected her management and left to form happy hour mining and industry (homi) which then joined bruce. it was sometime around then that bruce leadership discovered that issler had paid huzzah to allow her to move her freighter around syndicate. huzzah were our primary opponents at the time, major red box action. i don't remember if that was the final action that got her kicked out but it wasn't long after that when tada-o was ejected from bruce.since the freespacers were essentially part of tada-o they were ejected too. several members got together and decided they wanted to stay in bruce so we brought them over to blazing angels. the pattern repeats itself because issler either doesn't want to lead or can't lead, i don't know which one it is. i don't actually hate her or anything, i'm just frustrated by her ways. she says she parted ways with bruce long ago but if you eve-search \"issler bruce\" you'll see her mouth had some difficulty letting it go.eve is a game where any action you take can be a catalyst for some other action. even naming your alliance something you find funny can bother somebody else and make you a target. from my point of view she fails to understand this concept or at least that this concept is by design. when we war decced the accord she tried to paint us as pirates to the locals, which failed. in truth we were just a corp with a beef and we used the war dec system to pursue it.issler made a comment in local while we were there, along the lines of \"i give my members ships and leave them alone, why is that bad?\" my answer to that is, it's not bad but it's only part of leading a corp. i'd recommend taking some of that money and doing some agony pvp classes together as a corp. not because you plan to pvp but because, in eve, somebody else's plans may force you to."
"thisi havent read any official response on this one"
"please show your support for this proposal."
"i absolutely support this idea on two conditions:1. character names can only be changed once.2. there is a fee associated for the change, similar to changing portraits.if those two conditions are followed, that should significantly limit the usefulness of this change to scammers, but still give serious eve players the opportunity to correct a foolish name on an otherwise good character."
"i want to raise 2 points from my industrialist friend.* he thinks, and i think he's right, that since elite pvp alliances have access to dyspro/promo moons giving 10's or 100's of b per monthes (bob : more or less 450b/month with that ressource only), that these alliances can remove their industrialists unless they produce capital ships for free (using dyspro/promo isk). because it's a passive income.isk should be made activly by industrialists if you understand what he means. his first reaction reading colonies was \"noooooooo not a passive income for pvpers again !\"* second, he would like that full carebear allaince to be a viable solution in 0.0. currently, the stronger pvper allainces are succesfull, at the expense of dozens of hard working carebears alliances (carebears as in industrialists, not pve-ers). it's not balanced : pvping is the royal way, carebearism could be the royal way in colonies.he means that carebearism could have some critical use in 0.0. today there is none, colonies could save this.* my point of vue is still carebear and pvpers interactions. there is none. so the two \"communities\" never have interactions. but the way eve is made, every pvper stil need a ship and weapons, and every carebear in 0.0 need peace defended by weapons they makes. so : in 0.0 i'd really love a lot more pvper need for carebears because carebears need for pvpers because...you know what i mean : dialogue, mutual help and mutual understanding.what colonies makes (output for carebear and pvpers or maybe 0.0 living conditions) could help this.i'd love a unsurvivable 0.0 without carebears (like it was in 2006 !!!), as it is now for unsurvivable 0.0 without pvpers for carebears."
"i really like this idea. it would add a whole new dynamic to the eve world. suddenly ship pilots would actually care about those little colored balls that whip by the windows at warp.supported"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.you're ideas + his = supported."
"supported"
"there are 1650mm arties? i dont get it.i wouldnt say so. they are different boats. it's like comparing raven to rokh.so you want the tempest to have less dps? but more tracking?so tempest hurts already because of 6 turrets-4launchers. you also want to put more drone training into it? is the typhoon in need of friends?seriously though? why not just boost projectile's tracking?now this is the real boost. if you compare rokh to mael. the tanks are 100% identical. except mael has to have an active booster to be the same. which in this ehp era...so ya... the base shield is really effective. i fear though that 7.5% is too much. then again. i just crunch the numbers and it brings the mael right in line with the abaddon... except the abaddon is super cap dependant while maelstrom could almost laugh the cap away. add a vulture and you will be epic pwwwn.5% per lvl would be more reasonable."
"unsuported.the tempest have a range problem. it can't shoot at 200, and can't lock at 200. making it an anti support ship need a serious work with their sensor before willing any change."
"so everyone fears losing an un-updated clone. is there any reason anyone should ever be without a clone? no. can it make you so mad you wanna quit the game if you dont remember to get one of these clones and die? guaranteed. i dont care if your a buddhist master.why not get rid of the sp penalty completely or just automatically charge you if you have to punish that player for getting podded. i am willing to bet all players would eagerly trade a few isk for potentially alot of sp, so why not a automatic fee? are there people that dont use clones, or wouldnt want to?if there were a way to actually earn sp it would be one thing, but you cant. so a potential loss of sp means you lose both your time and your money, and all because you were trying to play the game instead of stopping to do paperwork for a clone.and what happens if theres an error with this system when you get a new clone? what if it doesnt update properly? then lets say something unintended did happen, who would you turn to, and would they even be willing to help you? (rofl) (and btw, no i havent lost a clone before making this thread, i just dont think i should have to worry about it, and eve is just too plain buggy to have such a potentially devastating feature that doesnt enhance gameplay)"
"i havnt lost a clone either like that, and i think its a pretty crappy feature in the game, so support given.a feature i would like is being able to edit your basic atributes which you first picked when starting a account.not the ones that you get bonuses to from your blood line or anything like that, but the ones where you had 5 points to spend on picking atributes."
"interesting idea, but we're at the technological level when a store should realize you're out of groceries and send you some. why doesn't it do that? choice.if you automate the process, you both lose the choice of which level of clone to upgrade to, and you minimize the risk of this game. risk is one of the primary facets of this game, and it creates the 'on-edge' attitude that pervades it, even in high-security space.you have to turn on autopilot for it to automatically travel to a given destination. you have to turn on your guns and ewar when being attacked. you should also have to choose to upgrade.i can agree to an evemail that says,but what you ask removes a lot of elements that draw people to this game. sorry, i cannot support it.edit: and odetta, that feature is being released in the next expansion (apocrypha) and is already on the test server. check it out for yourself."
"a pop-up after cloning to remind you to update your clone should suffice, imho."
"step 1: check chachter sheetstep 2: check your current sp count against your clone sp count.if sp >= clone sp{upgrade clone!}else{resume pew pew pew}not supported.and while i may appreciate such a feature... i think there are far more important matters to fix."
"not supported. while i've made the mistake of letting my skills exceed my clone before, and i could have benefitted from this feature i am not in favor of ideas that take responsibility and the ability to screw-up away from the players. forgetting to update your clone is supposed to be a painful learning experience."
"you know my cell phone company will automatically charge me for my bill every month.you know they will charge me extra automatically if i exceed my minutes, not shut me off or take back minutes from me and make me repay for those same minutes.the cost for a clone is negligible in relation to similar clone grades, so choice is microscopic to say the least. and as for a danger factor to a player, shouldn't that be factored into the death/game itself, not a potential loss of memory after the fact on the next death? for fluff purposes this is absolutely insane to include in the game. for gameplay purposes do you really enjoy losing your hard earned sp, because you forgot to dot your 'i' on your paperwork? thats threat? wow gg rofl.edit: and id really like to meet the guy who came to this game because he saw someone who lost sp's from losing an un-upgraded clone. eve's sense of loss comes from the ships you lose or other material goods. maybe even implants, but sp's (which you cant get back through gameplay in any way) is just a kick to the pants."
"<taunt> someone forgot to upgrade his clone today! </taunt>grow up.... get a better cell phone... and adapt... or die.what's next.... automatically have your clone stalk you as you travel to the other side of the galaxy?"
"did you actually read the post?and um what?"
"all i see is your pathetic attempt at pity.what's really sad is your the first <believe it or not> poster ive seen complain about something so seemingly simple that its utterly insane to even bother complaining about it.if you can't take the time to exercise your brain cells to figure that out... well then we're done here.because i get more complaints about war-dec's and greifing then i do over someone forgetting to update there bloody clone.hell i've done it... fortunately i've not be podded when i forgot... but it's unsettling... so once a day when i log in i check to see my current sp....it's not rocket science... and asking the good folk at ccp to program you a \"omgwtfiforgottoupgrademyclone button\" is nothing short a foolish waste of there time.by the way.... cell phones are variable monhtly fee based.not one time.clones are a one time fee... they grab a corpse... clean it up.... and leave it in a vat with your imprint.... its not thier fault you forgot to tell them to get a new one.that's your fault.the penalty for forgetting to update your clone is completely based on the fact you forgot.you you youstop shifting the blame."
"hore on forum troll hore on."
"this is exactly the kind of stupid user trick i get asked to program around everyday at work. it's annoying there, and it's annoying here. just check on your clone once in a while and you won't have a problem.not supported"
"yes please"
"if you want to look for a gimp system try projectils till then count your blessings.edit: btw not supported"
"isk is not xp points."
"i like where you're going kazou, but i think some additional changes would need to be met to further make this idea workable.boosting overall total yield amounts in the low and middle end ores.changing the ratio amounts for specific roids that are 'master of none'change mineral volumes, reducing trit in size over all and increasing its capacity to be hauled uncompressed while vastly increasing volume size of high ends.remove all t1 loot periodchange the mineral ratios for all meta items, so that more trit and occasional high ends occur than mid ends."
"aka. nobody then mixes anything up. forgive me because i cant seem to see where it says you are going by group originally. even then...this doesnt seem to be a group deal... but rather a limit of the amount of volume you can put into those 11 slots.so those of us who grinded our standing with a corp just for the 0% tax. now get nerfed... because you think so. even if it's ore. how yaay. so really you propose a mining nerf also.and still. this only screams of massive slot waiting time. which just hurts the miners more than mission runners; who just save up lots of mods and such. refine in huge batches and wait the days. the miners then have waits.on top of that... what if you just finished a mining op. or tritanium is skyrocketing and you have 100mil veldspar to refine. you cant refine it now... like you can now. you have to wait.sorry but if it's not broke. dont fix it.the dev who posted the details even said that mission runners account for very little minerals per capita."
"first line of your post and already you say something imprecise. great way to shot it down.from chronotis post:care to explain what rat give out ships? (beside the mission reward in the non repeatable starting mission)and what mission/rat loot drop morphite (as the drone alloy are in the drone compound column)?and all the modules used for mineral compression are included in the \"loot\" part. edit:read this post too:herewording is a bit unclear (maybe the server ate part of chronotis post), but it seem to mean that from the table the 1% morphite in the loot column is coming from reprocessed ships/items coming from the market or player production and that 4% of that 18% zydrine come from the same source.applying the same rapport it mean that 9,5% of that 42% of tritanium come from mineral compression and player build items. probably even more as ships and compression items are tritanium heavy."
"a loss associated with reprocessing is good for a rp point of view but must be applied in all space.reducing refining in empire space alone is the stupidest thing to do. it will hurt miners much more that people reprocessing loot and it will not resolve in any way the problem of people that consider minerals and loot they get \"free\"."
"another way to read that post is that 1% of the loot part (4% of the zydrine) come from reprocessing ships (the bolded item on the original question). but then we are totally lacking the data on the modules used for compressing minerals for transportation. a very important part of the reprocessed t1 modules, especially for the low ends."
"we've all seen the awesome videos where the ships are in a fleet formation then crashing into each other. however in game, we're just a massive blob of ships orbiting around each other. why not implement a fleet tool that organizes up to the battle grid and let us \"upload\" coordinates to other ships in a fleet, that way we can arrange tanks, snipers , tacklers and ecm or support ships in a certain order - kind of like the medieval army set ups only with...space ships.here are some pros i can think of-fleet flights would be more interesting and there would be more tactical thinking.-easy to implement! make up a code for ships to align to a certain order and when we click the battle grid thing, we can pinpoint the exact location, altitude and position we want other ships to align to. update: 1 more idea. synchonized warping - we've all seen that some ships warp to destinations some faster than the others. why not implement a \"synchronize to slowest warper\" feature in the fleet tool? of course only the captain can use this or the gang leaders.also, during that warp we will maintain the same speed and warp into our pre-determined positions in the grid."
"its called bm's (bookmarks) etc fc makes a bunch of bm's and copies them then gives them to player then every1 warps to the bm's in a set distance"
"lol, please stop wasting everyones time, dictor are fine the way they are, if you dont like getting stuck in a dictor bubble, dont go into other people house, simple as that."
"getting dropped out of warp or stuck in a bubble...get a got damn cloak already"
"hictors do need a nerf and boost.1. devoter and phobos need a boost. phobos needs 50m3 of drone bay; devoter needs \"5% bonus to medium energy turret rate of fire\" changed to a dmg mod instead. rof hurts cap2. hictors need their sensor resolution bottomed out like mad. they were designed to come in to bring balance to low sec moms. that's the only purpose. 1/10 their sensor resolution. aka around 25mm or so."
"one of their functions was to provide a method for tackling lowsec supercaps, that is not their only function."
"hics are fine as they are.i take it you're just crying because your stabs won't work around them?"
"this is what i do not get. why is it that whenever a introduced feature appears to be broken, it is placed in the queue as opposed to on top of the queue, where a broken, introduced feature belong."
"as they stand, they are the eve equivalant of a broken leg. all that has been suggested so far is basically putting a band aid on a broken leg, as its not really solving the issue, rather, its transfering the the problem.the sacriledge was redone three times before it became useable. each time they compleatly scrapped it and remade the ship. the apoc was the worst battleship in eve until they compleatly sc****d its role and remade it with fleet pvp in mind.nightmare is another almost broken ship that had the \"clean sheet of paper\" treatment. now a nightmare is no longer a expensive low quality typhoon, but rather a intresting and useful shield tanking laser ship.lots of concepts get updated with modern eve play or changes in real world pvp. the black ops concept would have worked in 2004, but its 2009 now and the type of role for black ops just does not exist anymore.basically, what i am saying is forget what we know previously about black ops and start again with a clean sheet of paper and redesign these ships with todays styles of pvp in mind."
"i can only explain from my perspective of what we've been told, but even with 11 different teams working on things, each team has a speciality. if the 'broken item' falls into field 'x' and the team that handles field 'x' is working on something else, it's moved down the queue. from that point on, lead game designers decide what is next in the queue and that is what that team handles next. so, with that in mind, csm did bring up the issue to put a higher priority of fixing pre-nerfed (which black ops was) things into mandatory review in the pipeline. as you can see from the minutes, ccp generally agreed with that idea and we're hoping it gets implemented asap.as for waratron - i think we're generally agreeing that blackops need to be redone, it's just a question of how far they need to delve into what's 'wrong' with them that is adding to the holdup. completely scrapping them and re-building from the ground up will take time, whereas trying to find a simple solution to making them work might be less time consuming."
"what he said..<--- runescape that way"
"plex = gtc + less complicated tradingif plex are a problem, then gtc are a problem. are gtcs a problem? i don't think so.and no, just because ccp sells plex directly does not mean that they will sell other items for money. it is pretty obvious what doing so would cause and ccp would have to be braindead not to know that. yet if we'd just assume that ccp was indeed braindead, they could abstain from selling other items ingame and still send the game down the drain swiftly. braindead people have this ability to always find a way to screw up.got it? unless there is a problem that could not be possibly fixed anyway, there is no problem at all. conclusion? no use to make a fuss, one way or another."
"roflmao. you win. i can't stop laughing. have a cookie. :) :) --isaac"
"you suck at reading and didn't reply to anything. it's not about paranoid, it's simply logic. if you let case a thru, then there no reason similar case b shouldn't be done.isn't runescape one of those horrible games where you buy ingame items?i got no problem with plex, it's dumb that they don't just sell 30 day tc but whatever.i find the problem being that ccp is selling the plex straight to people ingame. while it somewhat dumb, thus why i didn't make a serious write up. i do believe it might be a gateway to selling other items ingame in the future.there really no reason for ccp to sell plex straight to users. it take less then a minute to buy a gtc and enter it and get the plex. yet, there is a risk if players respound postivity to this then ccp may decide it be better to sell other ingame items as well. there really no reason a corperation wouldn't try to add to it's revenue stream in such a fashion."
"paranoia is a thought process characterized by excessive anxiety or fear, often to the point of irrationality and delusion. ok punk, you want it? here it is. i did read your pathetic little post, and yes, by definition it is paranoia.no, a does not have to be followed by b, and if you want to break it down barney-style i can for you. there is no evidence that selling game time in game, will lead to selling anything else. plexs are just game time. period. you are afraid of something you think might possibly happen if they do what they are doing. i'd be suprised if you refused to go outside ever, for fear of being hit by cars.you don't have any evidence,argument, or reason for your entire ******ed topic. you're wasting space on the assembly hall for people who have legitimate ideas and issues. no one here has a serious problem with plexes, and no one here is enough of a lunatic to agree with you. so go take some happy pills and get the frak off our board.- oh yeah, and for insulting my ability to read i'll continue the tradition world of warcraft ->>>"
"your topic title is misleading.and your proposal is a 2 liner which tells me 1 of 2 things.1: your just a child with no care or concern and just want things your way.2: your got scammed.if you had bothered to put a little more thought and effort into your post... you could have gotten somewhere... all you did was show a severe lack of thought and maturity on the proposal itself.and true/utter paranoia.so chicken little.... time for you to go back out into space.... and to stop saying the sky is falling. because its not... just the debris from your ship."
"finally... a rather good idea... needs some work... but it shows promise."
"you're right, there needs to be no limit on wardecs and the fee needs to be lowered.given how easy to mess around with docking games, hide, steal loot and all, wars should be made *easier* and more accessible.if you want wars to not be a griefing tool, you need to sort out everything else that is wrong with pvp."
"no limit on war decs and the fee lowered.so what your saying is you want war-decs 24/7.ok... warhammer is that way --->now how about rejoining reality please!?and post with your main."
"yah! yeah man!then we can make it mandatory that new players come and die, and we get ultra loot. then we can have an ultra war-dec, where we pay 50,000 isk to war-dec 50 corps at once, and then they all have to fight each other and us!then we can have ultra-frigates which kill regular frigates, but only people with -1.0 security status can use them!hell yeah mother ****er!*slaps himself* oh yeah, i forgot i'm not a douche."
"i thought you were at least willing to discuss things sensibly.now it's obviously you're just a jerk who thinks his way of playing it the only way."
"i did discuss things sensibly, with you, for a page or so. that was before i saw you were just proposing the same tired proposal that all griefers propose. nothing new. you're the same tired old whiners with the same old garbage. it got old a couple of years ago man."
"frankly this is where you lost any chance of discussing this seriously, if there was ever a chance.the argument you present here is exactly the same argument that has been proposed in those threads... if you had actually read them you'd of course know."
"a better idea would be to charge people in npc corps twice the subscription rate of people in player corps."
"wouldn't make more sense to charge the player corp people extra? after all you keep saying those who stay in npc corps are missing out on half the game."
"anything would be better than the ops troll..ermimean...ideas."
"what's he smoking? because he's obviously too stoned to see his fail."
"hes a friendly drake, take note of his lack of support/obvious sarcasm.if this crap is staying on the front page, it's time for more serious discussions.so from here on itt : kittens.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.yes kittens. the young of big cats are called cubs rather than kittens. either term may be used for the young of smaller wild felids such as ocelots, caracals, and lynx, but \"kitten\" is usually more common for these species. though the term primarily refers to young cats, it can also be used when talking about the young of beavers, hedgehogs, rabbits, rats, skunks and squirrels.a kitten opens its eyes for the first time.a litter of kittens usually consists of two to five kittens. they are born after a gestation that lasts between 64-67 days, with an average length of 66 days.kittens emerge in a sac called the amnion which is bitten off and eaten by the mother cat.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.for the first several weeks, kittens are unable to urinate or defecate without being stimulated by their mother. they are also unable to regulate their body temperature for the first three weeks, so kittens born in temperatures less than 27<U+FFFD>c (80 <U+FFFD>f) can die from exposure if they are not kept warm by their mother.the mother's milk is very important for the kittens' nutrition and proper growth. this milk transfers antibodies to the kittens, which helps protect them against infectious disease.[4] newborn kittens are also unable to produce concentrated urine, so have a very high requirement for fluids.kittens open their eyes about seven to ten days following birth. at first, the retina is poorly-developed and vision is poor. kittens are not able to see as well as adult cats until about ten weeks after birth.kittens develop very quickly from about two weeks of age until their seventh week. their coordination and strength improve, they play-fight with their litter-mates, and begin to explore the world outside the nest. they learn to wash themselves and others as well as play hunting and stalking games, showing their inborn ability as predators. these innate skills are developed by the kittens' mother or other adult cats bringing live prey to the nest. later, the adult cats also demonstrate hunting techniques for the kittens to emulate. please visit your user settings to re-enable images.as they reach three to four weeks old, the kittens are gradually weaned and begin to eat solid food, with weaning usually complete by six to eight weeks.[8] kittens live primarily on solid food after weaning, but usually continue to suckle from time to time until separated from their mothers. some mother cats will scatter their kittens as early as three months of age, while others continue to look after them until they approach sexual maturity.a litter of kittens with their motherthe sex of kittens is usually easy to determine by six to eight weeks. the male's urethral opening is round, whereas the female's is a slit. another marked difference is the distance between anus and urethral opening, which is greater in males than in females. kittens are highly social animals and spend most of their waking hours interacting with available animals and playing. play with other kittens peaks in the third or fourth month after birth, with more solitary hunting and stalking play peaking later, at about five months. kittens are vulnerable to harm because they like to find dark places to hide; with sometimes fatal results if they are not watched carefully. kittens are also very playful.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.what do you guys think?"
"ah... sorry bout that mate.i'm too used to lashing out at trolls... wait.. i'm a troll or am i...ouuu...kittens.... <twitch>"
"this is a bad idea, that will lead to more bad ideas, letting this get into the door will lead to more of this crap mechanic being added to the game. its a bad idea, its bad for the game, its bad for ccp to even let this go anywhere, they need to reverse course and get this mechanic out of t3 ships right now.i will not even consider flying a t3 ship until this mechanic is gone."
"if you dont want to lose sp if you die. eject or dont fly it."
"i could not care less if i lost a days training over a t3 ship. if anything it is the financial loss that will keep me from them (as i imagine they will be extremely expensive in the beginning)."
"while the loss of sp for a level 1 skill is nothing staggering, it will make training the subsystem skills at more than 3 not worth it unless the effect of training them is very large.there are several other factors that can make the t3 ships very rare, in particular the time required to gather the materials to build one against the possible sell price."
"supporting only because i think it's the wrong approach per se. the usual suspects are busy arrogantly whining about both sides of the risk vs reward equation, like this is some mathematical principle that they personally laid down, but i think they're missing the point.the t3 manufacturing process will be:find wormhole.enter with enough ships to...kill very tough sleeper npcs.mine the new gas forms in w-space.hope you get out of wormhole again with loot & gas intact and not jumped by some other hunting group, and don't end up in the middle of delve.reverse engineer the components to create a bpc/reaction.find enough bpcs and reactions to actually make a t3 ship part.run said reactions in a pos in low-sec.build t3 ship part - again, can only be done in a pos, though that can be done high-sec.hope that enough other people are selling the other parts that someone can actually build a ship.i'd say the above already covers a fair old risk and time-sink. t3 ships are still being balanced so it's hard to predict how much more capable they will be at release, but the above process alone may discourage large scale manufacturing except by those large groups who really don't need more power handed to them.sure, it's only a rank 1 skill, and sure, you can fly a t3 ship with them at 0 if you want, but this is directly interfering with the training system of skills in a way never done before in eve.if, as is alleged, ccp fear that some groups in eve have too much money, and that isk isn't a barrier any more, perhaps they should consider how those groups got too much money in eve, and fix that problem, rather than a quick hack to introduce an alternative penalty?"
"i have an idea, i was sitting in the bath and as it came to me i cried 'eureka!\" and jumped out, logged on and i'm wetting my keyboard and can hardly see the keys because of soap suds, so i beg your pardon for any spelling mistakes.kamikaze tactics.now, if there's one thing which is very 'unrealistic' in eve it's the fact that you 'bump' off anything you fly into. ok, off course, it means you can't have any nasty 'accidents', but it also means you cannot use this 'kamikaze' tactic to 'ram' a hostile, say, as a last resort. bumping, ok, it's used tactically, but it is stupid, only reason it has been implemented as a tactic is because it happens to be a part of the game.picture this.....you're in structure, yet firing away, all guns blazing, but in danger of being popped as reds clamour in to gang bang you two ways from sunday, your target is also in structure...you cannot do much, whether you disengage or not, it's far too late, you're going to get popped by his red mates before you can finish him off - but imagine if you could just aim right for the fatherless one? ram him - blowing both up in the process?or imagine this kamikaze method used as a fleet tactic? imagine ramming a good few t1 cheapo noob frigs into the creme de la creme of the hostile fleet? mauling him quite badly!!such a tactic would add another dimension to the game, a complete new dimension and look at a tactical and strategic approach. people will have to rethink their entire fleet philosophy to cater, or counter such a tactic. such a tactic is also 'realistic' as far as realism goes.well, here's my idea, i reckon a ship should have the potential to ram an opponent providing the opponent is or has been aggressed and is 'hostile'. damage could be dependent upon ship size, velocity, angle of approach, and level of impact, and location of impact, and what is actually in the cargo holds, ie. a load of explosive missiles.at all other times, things should stay as normal.some drawbacks could include an automatic 'podding', as a consequence.any comments?"
"this has been posted elsewhere and while it might be interesting, its way overpowered and doesn't fit into ccp's vision of its game. so not supported. --isaac"
"i agree.... awesome tactic... would be fun... but i can just imagine the gankfests that would take place.20 some odd rookie ships all plowing into a freighter in jita... yep.. fantastic.i would love it... but it would be easily abused.not supported until there's some refinement in the idea."
"my initial response to this is that i like the concept of what you're talking about - it has that dramatic last ditch effort feeling. very romantic in movies.unfortunately, i have to agree with drake. this would be so abused, it wouldn't be long before no one would undock.the only you could possibly fix this is to add in the stipulation that kamikaze pilots die. they don't get zapped into a clone, they don't get pushed out the door in a pod. they (the character) go poof permanently and irretrievably in the same cloud of flaming gas as their ship.even that isn't perfect. there are scenarios that could still result in serious abuse of the mechanic.not supported"
"ok so the penalty phase may have been a bit much, but i'm a bit frustrated in that i have a genuine problem and it's been since 10-02-09 and i've not gotten a single responde. there's no button to 'escalate, no response after 48 hours' or no other options. i just gotta keep hoping someone will say something.i've had another petition that after weeks of ignoring, they responded with a question, then closed it. i have no way to re-open a petition that was closed - by the gm and not by me - because i was out of town and eve-less for four days. they took a week to respond, but i go out of town at the wrong moment and they close the petition.apparently my quiet little corner of eve where i have sent a whole four petitions in the four years i've owned this account i've been flagged as 'don't respond to this guy ever' because it took me two years of playing before i ever petitioned anything - and it was a game bug not a 'waaaah my ship got shot' kind of thing.as far as the other 'how would you like that...' i would love too, i've been in customer service for years. i'd even be willing to work on the weekend or evenings because this is the kind of job you can do from your home and don't have to drive in. yes, they're quite thankless and there are a lot of ****heads out there that like to badger. however ccp themselves have admitted that the pos exploit was petitioned years ago. something is broken with the customer interaction portion of eve."
"while your banging your war drum... remember they have to answer out of a possible 50,000 players or more at anyone time.i don't care how many people you have staffed.... your not gonna get to all of them in one business day.guess you didn't think about that did you.i'm quite content with ccp so far... yes its not perfect... but then i've not had much to complain about either."
"just an idea i had would it be nice to have some kind of dog fighting stule in eve perf in frigs and cruiser class ships as the go with the desired speed anywayinstead of just orbiting an enemy.discuss"
"the only way youd be able to get that kind of thing is to do first person prespective via cockpit.unfortunately that is impossible and not likely to happen due to the fact that you are in a pod and your camera drones are your eyes and ear's... unless they slap one on the nose of your ship and you decide to stay in that viewpoint."
"unless we could change the view point then yeah you are correctstill i dont think its a bad idea"
"go to your options, and activate advanced camera options. it's very possible. you set your target as main interest, and manual fly via double clicks. i do it all the time."
"always wanted this, but ya eve is kinda set in its path with no hope for change.maybe eve 2. and maybe we can get rid of this gawd awful skill point system too. lol"
"o_othat skill point system you oh so hate is the one thing that makes this game unique.it's not wow in space pal... its eve online.... : o p"
"well if there were a way to progress your character yourself in anyway that would be one thing, and i wouldnt be making this post.but putting everyone on a timer, means the worst player that ever played the game that started early will still always have more skills then a skilled or intelligent player, almost no matter what you do. thats ******ed tbh.notice im not playing wow, (and thank gawd to that), but i do have to say wow's leveling system is alot more desirable at this point in time due to it being not completely static, and immovable."
"no one said you had to play eve online either."
"i think its past your bedtime....."
"wow.... that the best you can come up with?"
"plz guys dont derail the topic"
"the only good part about this new interface is the fact that once i have struggled through a fitting, i can save it and reapply it without having to use it again."
"been away, but this part simply isn't true, as the tracking speed isn't modified, so your tracking speed still has to at least match, or be greater than a targets angular velocity. not that it matters now as this has been voted out, but perhaps i should have made it clearer (i did post example numbers which seem to have been overlooked). this proposal does not mean 'automatic hit', it simply boosted the hit chance from 50% @ turret tracking speed = target angular velocity, to 100% @ turret tracking speed =target angular velocity, when inside 1.4km."
"uh, yes that is exactly what it does. i didn't notice it at first (or else i would have pointed out that flaw earlier) but when i started to review your formula, that is exactly the result you get.(max(1, ((1/(exp(range/2000))) + 0.5))) ^ ((( tracking_penalty * sig_penalty) ^ 2) + (((optimal_penalty / falloff) / falloff) ^ 2))look at what happens when you drop in a value of 1,386m.(max(1, ((1/(exp(range/2000))) + 0.5))) = (max(1, ((1/(exp(1386/2000))) + 0.5))) = 1now you tell me what 1^anything is?as long as the tracking/falloff part can be resolved (ie no divide by zero due to range) the actual result is irrelavent as the final result is 1: ie always hits."
"ah, it should have been a multiplier not 'to the power of' i.e. 0.5 up to 1 x (fraction due to tracking/angular velocity), so that it's not possible to spit out a '1' unless target is stood still. oh well, my ****-up but i stand by the general aim, and the flaw in the current formula."
"i also stand by my earlier suggestion:first, prove that there is infact a problem with how short range turrets are balanced and not with how you are attempting to use them.then look for an adjustment to attributes before re-writing mechanics.lastly, if attribute adjustments cannot solve the problem, look for a new mechanic based on the merrits of its playablity, indepent of any resemblence to reality."
"more build slots please"
"so is there a way to get around the valid issues you described? it's good to get some constructive criticism too. =)"
"i'm in favor of pretty much anything ccp can do to allow me to skill more than one player per account as long as it's not approaching the cost of another account fee to pay the \"second character skilling fee\"i'm sure they could put an option at activation of the 60 day code which would allow you to get 45 days for 2 accounts skilling or 30 days for 3 accounts skilling. i've not done the math how that works out but you get the idea how it could be done with gtc'sor you could sell 60 day 2 character gtc's and 60 day 3 character gtc's. (they used to have multiple gtc's available before so it shouldn't be hard to do this)or ccp could benifit directly by making it possible if you subscribe directly through ccp and not include gtc acctivations.i'd rather not cut out this player base, and i see no reason they would have to, but i'm just throwing out options."
"the unfairness issue of t2 bpo's aside, the introduction of invention benefited most eve pilots, more than introducing a few more t2 bpo's into the game would ever have. hulks became affordable for all. old mining guides used to angonize over whether one could recover the cost of a 400 million mining ship; invention opened up the supply of hulks, and cov ops cloaks, and many other items. plus, even though the research points will never yield a t2 bpo, at least there is now a market for the datacores, so it's always passive income on the side. whether anything should be done about t2 bpo's is a different question, but the invention model was a step forward for manufacturers and customers alike, at least as far as making it a system for everybody. it's invention that forced ccp to look at alchemy as a solution to other bottlenecks in the manufacturing pipeline. all in all, i see invention as a success. though i wish i had some nice t2 blueprint originals too."
"the vast majority of techii bpo holders nowdays did not win them - they bought them off the lottery winners. so any kind of asset stripping does not disadvantage a bunch of lucky winners - they are long-gone with their cash.nerfing tech ii bpos will simply hurt players that worked hard to gain the money to buy the bpos, like any other bpo in the game."
"how about ccp removing the advantage of the current t2 bpo holders by introducing more of them ?this would have to be a slow process so that the current holders don't find the bpos value wiped out instantly. i'm thinking of something like the following: - ccp keeps track of the number of times each t2 item has an invention attempt. - every week or so ccp releases a t2 bpo for each of the top x invented items, unless one item has less than y invention attempts. x should be low enough that the current bpos don't become worthless overnight, y is to stop new bpos being produced when there are enough of them. - when a bpo is released, the counter is reset to 0. - there will also be a small delay on each counter.with this the existing t2 bpos will lose value over time as the new bpos are researched up. this will also lead to the price of t2 items dropping even further once there are enough bpos to let the bpos set the price, which has the disadvantage of making invention on that item unprofitable. so invention rates will drop to a point where the counter stays below y, so no new bpos are produced until demand increases.the bpos can be released via either the lottery or via auctions (ccp spawns the bpo, then puts it up on auction). either way, the people with the money will buy the bpo.advantages: - it will make the current t2 bpos less of an advantage because of the new ones, unless they remain profitable enough to be able to buy up all of the new ones. if they do keep their output restricted enough that invention sets the price, eventually the people saving up to buy that t2 bpo will be able to outbid them. - this will lead to lower prices on t2 items for everyone as we no longer have the wastage on invention bpcs adding to the price. - because the t2 bpos lose value slowly, but are not destroyed, it should lessen complaints. especially since the people with the current bpos still have the initial advantages of a researched bpo and an existing production chain.disadvantage: - this will make invention unprofitable, which is bound to annoy a lot of people. the people manufacturing stuff from invented bpcs will probably be able to buy bpcs off the bpo holders. but the people selling datacores will lose their passive income.i don't like the idea of wiping out someone's income like this, even though it's only a passive income (one that i don't make use of). but it's still fairer that just deleting an existing item."
"wow. just wow.so let me get this straight. issler led a corp which you think wasn't involved enough in an alliance, and a spy made it in which did most of his damage to her corp.she paid pirates once who were not huzzah to get minerals needed for bruce ships. you don't remember what else she could have done to get kicked out, but her corp was.fast forward to today. you don't think her way of running a corp is best. cool, but you still havn't said what she did to you.as far as reporting you as pirates in local goes, more than just her reported you, and you did kill at least one ship i know of that had absolutely no affiliation to us.her style of gameplay isn't for you. that's fine. there's a good number of people who do like styles other than yours, even some who prefer to fly with issler.tada-o is about having fun in eve. if people don't want to concentrate on pvp, we do our best to make sure they don't have to. if they do, they're given the opportunity to explore that was well. tada-o and the honda accord are about the freedom to enjoy eve however we want to. the only limiting case here being downright griefing, which if you've spent a day in tada-o, you'd know that it's just not the type of people we are.under different circumstances we might have gotten along, or at least had fun pew pewing eachother. i'm much less the industrialist... but i only saw huge blobs from foom i think scomi's request for specifics still stands, but i don't know, your post might have been what she was looking for.p.s.can we get this moved out of jita park? publicity is nice and all, but i'm pretty sure this doesn't belong here."
"woooo!thanks for the response! lemmie see if i can sum allllllll that stuff up. i'll do my best because, well, i'm sorry but i have no idea who the people you mentioned are, or what \"syndicate\", \"pc9 cluster\", \"red box action\" are... or why those things are relevant.- 3 years ago you joined issler's corp and stayed with it for two months. so, i'm not exactly sure why the lack of \"out of game resource[s]\" was so disturbing since you didn't stay long and were able to easily find other sources of info (and again, im not sure what this has to do with anything).- you were disappointed that tada-o members didn't participate in many \"ops\". you don't mention how many members the corp had at that time (were there quite a few miners?) or why this was such a serious concern. you said they provided ships (somehow, even without joining the ops) but don't say what else an industrial corp in the alliance should have been doing.- there was a spy in the corp - i find it hard to believe that this was the one and only spy ever to slink into the alliance. you don't mention how this single spy was particularly devastating to the alliance.- issler paid a rival alliance (though, there seems to be some dispute about who, exactly, was paid) to allow her to move one freighter (you don't mention if this was a one-time move or if she was cutting them checks and sending them giant cheese platters every day for months - nor do you mention how this damaged the alliance).- issler leaves bruce and \"the pattern repeats itself\"? i'm not sure how this is possible when her corp was no longer part of the alliance, or how you could know this, long after youd left her corp.i took your advice and searched \"issler bruce\" but really can't find much. all the recent posts relate to the \"revenge\" actions of the past month or so. in all of 2008 there are a total of 8 threads where she mentions bruce at all and 3 of those threads were just corp recruitment pitches.maybe you could help me out and point out the horribly awful, unbelievably hurtful things she's said about bruce, because i'm having trouble finding it.\"...she tried to paint us as pirates to the locals,\" i'm really not sure what \"locals\" you're talking about here or why you'd be concerned about what these \"locals\" think.so then, let me know if i got this right:former bruce people have spent three years being upset about this \"beef\": freighter move payoff, one spy, lack of ops participation and mean forum posts.certain members have spent an absolutely astounding amount of time, resources and energy during those three years to seek revenge for the freighter move payoff, one spy, lack of ops participation and mean forum posts.they sent a spy to spend a month or so pretending to be a tournament team member in order to \"assassinate\" her. he blows up her ship in the second round of the tournament (the team still wins the match, however).then they launch a war dec, assemble and move dozens of ships from one end of the galaxy to the other for a week and blow up a few ships and some stations.then finally, start a ridiculous forum smear campaign using drive-by, bomb-throwing alts (ie: this thread).all this for something that happened 3 years ago in an alliance that no longer exists.i'm sorry, but unless i'm missing something, i'd have to disagree about who's having \"some difficulty letting it go.\""
"i've requested this thread be moved to coad as it seems to fit the nature of that forum better.issler"
"i don't believe this is a better fit for caod, we have dealt with issues relating to questions of character of csm members in the past in the csm forums and it's for the best they remain here."
"ok then,to the points made.no spies where ever proven to be in any corp of mine. in fact several excellent members (teebee and skior) became so upset at bruce trying to affect the normal operation of tada o that they became outspoken and accused of spying. as a result they left our corp.we never lost half our corp. a seriously random pilot named john caldwell took advantage of a time in my life where rl limited my online time. he at one point demanded i let him take over my org. i told him what he could do with the suggestion. he then told a whole pile o'h lies about how i was leaving eve and how he had really been in charge. as a result we lost about 20% to happy hour mining. good ridance. last i heard john had left eve.when we left bruce i deliberately planned a life as far away from them as possible. after a lot of exploration we ended up in molden heath. since then we have had no interaction with them.freed (whose name i deliberately misspell) managed to get an alt, happy joymaker into beep for the tourny. i had no idea happy was an alt because, i could care less about freed and bruce and how foom screwed all those that were committed to bruce.yes, when niskin was in tada o we had a very sad web site. it is sad again as my hosting org is going out of business. guilty as charged.the bottom line, over 120 folks currently make beep their home. easily triple that would return if asked. we are three years old and beep has now lasted longer than bruce. beep is not about me, it is about helping anyone in eve that wants help to mine, to mission, to explore, to build and soon to fight. 666 pilots of eve voted that they believe me when i say that.so looking at this in the harsh light of reality. some folks decided corps should be about the members and not the leaders. i agreed to organize that experiement. now we have become an alliance that takes that idea to the next level. i ran to be part of the csm to try and make sure that idea can florish. i don't use my position in the csm to prohibit other paths in eve. i just try and make sure the \"carebears\" can have a place at the table.so about the current conflict. we've lost a several billion isk pos network as a result of this grudge. i have not proposed a change to the war mechanism or any other game mechanism. eve is harsh and \"a-holes\" with grudges deserve their outlets for their disfunctions. to encourage the folks i choose to represent, i can tell you that there are alternatives to balance the equation. foom now has debris fields where several cap ships once where. if you think you are being bullied please realize there exists in eve ways to turn the karma wheel.so all i can say is beep survives, i remain committed to the folks i think elected me and life in the 'verse goes on.issler"
"so you're saying that the spy did damage to tada-o and farther down issler says there were never any spies. teebee was a spy and a ****head, i can't confirm much past that.fire mantle or huzzah, whoever, it doesn't matter. rather than asking for help from people in her own alliance she embarrassed us by showing weakness to our enemies. tada-o was the weakest link and things like that made it visible to our opponents. so if you want to know what she did exactly, she embarrassed an alliance that i was proud of.killboard shows one punisher killed in illamur that was not from your alliance. killboard comment reports him as a pirate. play how you want, i don't care. i didn't start this thread, that's not my title up there. my issue is clear if you read my first post. i don't think issler's involvement with the csm will improve the game. if she wants to make suggestions about high sec and industry and trading that's fine but keep it out of low sec and 0.0 issues. anything she suggests that will help non pvpers get access to 0.0 will hurt the game rather than help it."
"no disrespect intended but if you don't know what those things are you probably won't understand much of this. floofing around in high sec is a whole different game than holding and defending space.it shows a lack of organization and a lack of leadership. i found the information in spite of her, rather than because of her. that's the difference.bruce was a unique alliance, being \"just a miner\" was discouraged. we tried to educate all members. tada-o didn't \"provide\" ships they sold them at slightly below market prices to any alliance member. considering that many corps already did this for their own members the service was only marginally useful.devastating... no. embarrassing... yes.i'm not the alliance historian, i don't have every specific detail. she chose to pay our primary enemies to get something done rather than looking to her own alliance for assistance. again, embarrassment... yes.kicked out, just to clarify. removed due to too many incidents that were counter to what bruce was trying to achieve. anybody who would potentially want to shoot us is something we pay attention to. the locals in question would be the people in the molden intel channel. if you aren't in it you probably should be, intel channels are good.continued in next post..."
"it wasn't a lot of time, when you are organized and motivated things go much easier. some people saw an opportunity to take revenge on a person they disliked and they did so.what you are missing is the same thing i've been trying to point out in this thread. eve is a sandbox and there are no recess ladies in some areas of the sandbox. if somebody wants to shoot at you because of something you did 3 years ago they can. heck if they want to shoot at you for no reason they can."
"teebee was an a-hole, i'm surprised you would defend him. skiorh didn't bother me, he wasn't around much anyway since he would leave from time to go be a pirate.nice attempt at spin. john caldwell was motivated, active and understood what it meant to be part of an alliance. if your online time was limited and he wasn't filling in then who was? i'll take your word on the percentage although if we are talking about active members who were actually in syndicate participating then i bet my number is more accurate.kicked out for being the weakest link, just want to clarify that again. anyway that's fine, you do what you want to do. i'm not telling you that you shouldn't. what i am saying is that the two suggestions you made, which i quoted in my first post, were dumb and don't mesh with what eve is. it makes me question your contributions to the csm. what exactly is it that carebears need so badly?"
"whew!!wow! you know, i'm sorry, but you really take up quite a lot of thread space and say very little. i didn't realize what a tough question this would be.this time i won't even mention all the completely irrelevant things so they won't be quoted and expanded upon even further. (though, i would like to know why extensive knowledge of \"red box action\" is needed to understand a \"beef\").at the same time, i'll hope for an end to the hair-splitting about the meaning of one word while completely ignoring what i was saying:'leave', 'kicked out'? who cares!? when someone is \"kicked out\" they \"leave\", they don't hang around. you quoted that entire passage and focused only on one word, (then quoted issler's entire post and did the same thing)! this leads me to believe you don't have an answer at all and only want to waste space to make it look like a legitimate response (that, and you seem to really loooooove saying \"kicked out\").\"...removed due to too many incidents...\" and lemmie guess, you can't remember any of these numerous \"incidents\".okay then, kicked out!! kicked out!! kicked out!!!!! there! the rest of the quote can now be addressed. sheesh. (i predict it won't be, though)i'm not understanding this hang-up about everything being defined as \"having things handed to you\". (or the \"kicked out\" thing either... but i guess we already covered that).'provide' doesn't mean \"give away for free\". here again, you focus on that word and (again) don't say what else alliance industrial corps were expected to do. this was a large part of your \"beef\", remember?things that were once enormously serious, 3-year grudge, sabotage the tourney, get out the capital ships, send the smear alts to the forum type issues in your previous post are suddenly mere \"embarrassments\" now.like the whole paying \"primary enemy\" huzzah thing, which morphs into these fire mantle people (whoever they are) and then back again to \"primary enemy\" a post later. well, whoever you'll be saying she paid off in your next post, can i ask why she'd do this when, as you seem to claim, the alliance was perfectly willing to help? something doesn't add up here. (and pleeeeeeeeeeeeeease don't complain that \"help\" or any other word, for that matter, means \"give away for free\")i simply asked to explain this \"beef\" you mentioned and have been stewing about for 3 years and it's like trying to staple yogurt to jello and tie it to a glob of melting ice cream. (these posts make me hungry for some reason)so let's see, today's \"beef\" update:- the freighter move payoff (to whoever the \"primary enemy\" is today - i never heard how many times this happened so i'm guessing once, either way, it's now only an embarrassment)- one spy (this too has been reduced to only a little embarrassment - oh yeah, and the spy was a real jerk i guess)- lack of ops participation (industrial corps were supposed to be regularly involved with mining ops... but not be \"just a miner\". they should have been \"educated\" in... something... but we're not sure what, exactly (sounds a little 1984ish to me)).- mean forum posts (this was a major \"beef\" issue that has apparently gone away - although, it's still mean to call someone a pirate in the intel channel)i'm predicting more over-the-character-limit posts with more squirming and few answers."
"i agree with this statement.also, the learning skills don't take too long to learn anyway. i got all of mine to a decent level in two weeks. every tech 2 learning skill past 4 isn't really worth it. you don't need level 5 for all the rank 1 learning skills either, the payback isnt worth it."
"i guess all that stuff you mentioned could be found on (some) planets?"
"i do not advocate dumbing down the game or make it less harsh. although the touch of eve sometimes feels like soft skin being dragged across coarse gravel, i gladly accept it as the reality of life in new eden. i most certainly would not want it any other way.what i wanted to say is that although there are features in name, they are not there in practice. a war academy that teaches about war. a temple where the role play-minded among us gather. an actual scrap yard. a convention center where corporations or alliances meet. with an ability to cast binding votes. not as a mere part of the scenery. how much scorn do you think i need on a daily basis? features that are woven into the fabric of the eve experience. new markets to explore and exploit. real virtual isk to be made. scarce but valuable resources, jealously guarded, bitterly fought over.the capsuleer is the elite among the new eden citizenry, but they have no own home. because there is no more pleasing an idea than spending ones life on the bridge of a ship? i refuse to believe that new eden could not be equipped with better upholstery and that every aspect of that improved scenery could not have a basis in an actual business model that creates new opportunities for revenue.stations need dairy, wheat and a host of other products. why are these only available from npcs and missioning? why is there not an entire space borne food industry? because cows and food are not sexy? food is beneath our contempt because it is not expensive and it doesn't make a big bang? no army marches on an empty stomach. why is the production and control of food not a hotly contested item in new eden? everybody else in this marvellous 3-d fiction adventure called 'real life' seems to think it is. why doesn't the eve capsuleer?there are many rich features that can be added to new eden. they would not only expand and enhance the experience, they would also be of strategic value, add to the repertoire and, especially on the topic of so sensitive a subject as the production and control of the food supply, be a natural expansion of the market, a great source of revenue and yet another superb reason to have big spectacular wars for.offer your own insights and suggestions for new markets for essential goods that would be a great feature to be added to the game.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"wow, thats a good idea to add the tabs into the ship hangar as well. i never really thought of that but it makes sense. good stuff."
"i've been wanting this since forever.i'd be happy to train a rank 18 skill to get each new division at this point. well, maybe not happy, but i'd do it."
"oh god yes.if it does happen to be too much for some reason they can always just fake it as well by hardcoding 4/5 tabs with a class filter. like ammo, weapon, drone, module etc....containers are useful but a serious pain and a bad solution when it's such a simple ui change to fix the problem. i would think after hearing of ccp's difficulties with cotainers and the database/asset list they would be more than happy to come up with an alternative."
"you mean like we'll be able to respec. attributes only once? yeah that sounds reasonable..."
"i don't support this. you picked a name out of a chinese take out menu, suffer. implement name changes and you may as well shard the servers imo. your name, your reputation, carries massive weight in this game (particularity if you misuse it)."
"no it doesn't, there are so many scammers, pirates, whatever other lowlives you got, around that people simply can't be assed to keep track anymore. these people change corporations like i change underwear too and the game cater to this dummy front business to the point where someone hiding behind an alias is simply another shrug among shrugs."
"yea,there's plenty of people that need to change their names. i say let em. generate another source of income for ccp. just keep their old names in their char info showing a history of previous names :)"
"ah yes... and who are you again?did i mention you can buy or sell a character to dodge this mythical reputation if you so desire? don't forget of course there are 300 thousand players, so you know all of the pirates, thieves, and crooks?"
"never going to happen, simply too simple for the more dark and conspiring of us to negate any and all risk & consequences alike in ventures like thieving, scamming, griefing, etc.ccp are pretty keen on the balance between risk and reward so - without ccp providing a method to look up previous identities of characters through whatever mechanism they deem fit - it's just not going to happen.no support for this. ever."
"/signed."
"yep..."
"/signedseriously, i can't think of a game feature that needs to be revamped more than this. really it needs a lot more than just a visual face-lift imo."
"not supported.those needing nursemaids need not play eve."
"how can your clone be updated automatically in the situations where your clone is set to a non-medial station (not that i think this should even be possible other than for a jump clone).updating a clone isn't hard, not supported. i also wouldn't support auto-renewal for insurance on ships"
"can't support people that are either to lazy or absent minded to check their clone. i lost bs5 once, 800k and odds because i didnt pay attention and i would have it no other way."
"agreed"
"oh yes, thats hellofamess"
"ghost train forever"
"sirs:war decks and the resulting in game dynamics absolutely ruin game play. this drives a lot of players out of the eve community. that is, they quite the game. less $$ for ccp.if people want to pvp they can go into low security areas.it would greatly improve the enjoyment of playing eve it you eliminated war decking or at least limited it to 0.3 space or lower.as it is, i am thinking of leaving the game."
"can i have your stuff? seriously, i'm a bit low on cash at the moment.as for your proposal, thats never going to happen. everyone knows the war-dec system needs an overhaul, but to eliminate it at all would cause an up-roar, and personally **** me off.so yeah, game name is efrim black, feel free to pass me some stuffs. i have some new guys in my corp who can always use some extra cash or ships. ^_^"
"no need to remove it.just raise fees from current 2mil to 100mil every week. you can bet 99% of griefers will quit annoying decent players, and only reasonable wars will happen.for the moment, npc are the only solution. why you think so many players stick to their npc? for pleasure?"
"perhaps, you could make a macro for surrendering, it would probably be similiar to the macro you use for mining.nothing wrong with the current war dec rules except the limit on them."
"have a nice life."
"euhm, right.wardecs are flawed atm, removing them is not an option though."
"go low-sec kthxp.s. not enough nuts? keep killing miners you are brave people laugh out loud at your killboards full of hulks and retrievers"
"what's the problem, pay a fee, kill some targets.edit: have you seen my killboard, or our killboard? yeah, we kill miners if we find them, haulers too, thats what privateers do interrupt trade.however, the majority of our kills, and mine, are on combat ships.as far as the laughing, haven't heard any, but the more they laugh the more likely they are the ones who refuse to undock when decced, or do nothing but play docking games."
"which is exactly the problem, 90% of the wardecs have nothing to do with disrupting logistics, removing those stupid miners from the system you want to mine in, not liking the colour of the ships they fly in, etc. the only reason for 90% of the wardecs is just easy targets: risk free pvp. no point in denying it. i don't say you do it, i say 90% of the wardecs are that way. and yes i made that 90% up, but i think it is pretty close.and martha, about me, i live in 0.0, providence. i am nrds and never even have been in a corp which declared war on another one. it is always the other way arround, people looking for afk haulers wardeccing us."
"yes sadly carebears are so protected on all sides its virtually impossible to actually disrupt logistics anymore. the only resource you can really fight over is moons. to the op: can i have your stuff?"
"i lol'd pretty damn hard. sure a lot of as*hats dec for easy ganks against noobs what can you do. as it stands in noir. we get paid to kill wt's and i think those on the recieving end have it easy. we dec you leave your corp for the week and keep making isk. while we are bound by contract to sit by and camp station afk'rs, the dec is in their favor. grow up and can i has all your stuff."
"you don't get it. or you do get it but you just act like you don't get it.by far most wardeccers aren't intrested at all in disrupting anything, they just want easy kills."
"i have absolutely no problem with wardec's at all, however i do think 2m / week represents absolutely no barrier at all, why not just make it free? if people feel there should be some kind of cost, then make it something more sensible, say like 20-50 mil. 2mil is a joke, nobody is going to care about that."
"i agree 2m is not a deturent by any means. starting war dec fee's at 50m makes much moar sense. griefers that take easy kills from noobs probably wont break a profit and after a month are out 200m +"
"which tbh is completly fine."
"rokh undocks. sees 50 wartargets. spams redock and survives. this is absurd.it is time to change the redock timer.leave it at 30 seconds for people who are not wardecced.if you are wardecced. make it like 5 minutes to redock.this will lead to station camps being worth the time and effort."
"because obviously there isn't enough station camping.don't station camp and it isn't a problem."
"would be nice to see a change of some sort. its pretty lame when your targets just redock. you don't really have a choice but to station camp. when you enter a system the war t's just dock up almost instantly then you are forced to station camp them. then they just play docking games undock - dock rinse and repeat. its also lame when a fleet finally commits and they relize that they have a low chance and just deagro and lose one person while they wait out their aggro timer. bumping is useless without mass so thats out of the question. would be nice to see a 1 minute change. enough time to kill a few or get them to commit to a fight."
"well there are only really 3 places where you can fight in eve. gates, stations and pos'es."
"maybe you should think this through again..."
"no. i would say that the agression timer for fighting should keep you from docking for 5 minutes. whether you start it or not. i would never agree to you getting war-decced , and having to wait outside whether you fought at all or not.no. not supported, there are too many people who do not play docking games who would be griefed by this."
"this is one proposal i cannot support. while i understand the idea behind it, this would fundamentally change the balance of the game. \"rich\" corporations, macro miners, and people with lots of real world money would be able to simply mass produce experienced characters.one of the things that make eve so rewarding over the long run is sense of accomplishment after putting in the time and effort to train up advanced skills.negative on this idea."
"where is the troll smiley? you'll have to settle for this;"
"wow, this thread is epic simply because it's so terrible. op must have been either really high or really really stupid when he posted this, and as far as i'm aware stupidity isn't curable."
"i so not support this. this is eve, not hello kitty online for crying out loud."
"qffquote for fail you a macrominer? they are the bigger winner if this is applied"
"maybe you want to create multiple accouts, buy the macromining basic skills set and drive a hulk from your 1st day.yes, ccp will allow this stay tuned"
"i agree with most of your observations, however your solution is far too convoluted. you do not solve simple problems with complex,convoluted systems. 3 step process:1. remove all t1 drops from rat loot. yes, all.2. replace t1 drops with tags.3. reduce mineral composition of named modules by 50% or more.this reduces pve's negative impact on mining and t1 industry without adding more reliance on poses or complicating refining."
"not supported."
"bm's sure if you are ready for the engagement. what about those times when you fight where you dont expect it. i think this is a pretty cool idea. it might work with ambulation. leaders/fc's sit in a room and pretty much on a grid designate squad warp in points. arrange it by squads. say squad a is 10 tacklers they hit 0 on the warping. squads 2-3 are mid range bs they hit 50km off the warpin, sniping squad 4 lands 150km from the warpin and so forth."
"great idea, would love to see a grid type layout."
"if it is implentable i would love it"
"thumbs up to the general idea."
"i see the main ish as bops as jumpers are difficult to set up, ranged far too short to be really useful, and need the fuel bay or fuel reduction bonus to prevent bops users from tearing their own hair out.as in-gang ships, they have less tank and less firepower than t1 bs but are 5-7 times more expensive. losing one is like losing 10+ recons, so why uncloak, or better why jump it to the combat zone in the first place.the result is they are marginalized out of a combat role and become a 500mil cov ops jump bridge, and for the reasons mentioned above not a very good one."
"yea ideally they would offer better tank & gank than the t1 counter parts. lets face it, price does matter.alternatively, ccp could try figure out a way to reduce price of 1 of those into 200 mil range. that would also be considered a boost"
"i fully support this thread. all of the given options are nice, although i like 4 more (mining alt ftw ^^)"
"a nice side-effect of changing this mission is that the price of regular kernite will drop to be commensurate with base mineral values. i always found it silly that regular kernite sold for way more than the higher concentration ores, entirely due to this mission.i was hoping that they could change the mission ore to something like either 8,000 kernite, 12,000 omber, 16,000 scordite or 20,000 veldspar or something, with a 1/3 possibility in each category to ask for one of the higher concentration versions - dense veldspar or fiery kernite, for example. hell, throw in pyroxeres as well if you want (and any other ore which may be local to those regions). that way the mission remains as easy as it is, but the effort required to complete it will take far more than just stockpiling, or buying the same ore over and over again. if someone wants to maintain huge stockpiles of every possible ore and their variants in his storyline station, then full power to him, he deserves an easy storyline for his investment, but the rest of us need to get the mission, and spend some time working towards getting the ore before doing the mission.the main problem remaining is that the ore you need is shown before you accept the mission, so people are still going to buy/mine/haul, then accept and complete without even closing the dialogue box, so the completion time is still going to be really fast, and rewards are still going to be poor. at least it'll even out the demand for all ores, though. you could spawn a roid belt and only mark quest completed once it's mined dry, but it's not going to be fun for people who don't mine. perhaps if there was a way to hide the actual ore you needed before accepting the mission..."
"it's not the definition of paranoia, the definition of paranoia would require you to know my mental state which i strongly doubt you'll have any real evidence from a post on a space forums. there no evidence that it won't, but i'm sure it's been brought up within ccp and maybe they should sell ingame items for money. i have no clue what the community wants and would of like to see what they had to say.this thread nothing but insults and there has only been one decent post so far. you claiming i'm afaird of something has nothing to do with the topic at all. please stop derailing the thread.there will be no evidence for such a topic, since all we have right now is selling of plex's. i just wanted to find out what the opinion of the general eve community felt towards ccp selling ingame items. my 2 cents, is very simple. i never had a problem affording items within the game and i don't see why ccp must be selling plex's when players can create them easily enough.i don't see a link to wow there, but there is a free trial buddy program ^^ 1: i don't know when linear logic was frown upon. i'm shock by this statement, i can't really think of a field that doesn't use a form of linear logic. maybe if we get into talking about string theory and what not, but the way they try to support those conspects is linear.2: i never heard of ccp scamming anyone. if ccp even wanted to scam me, they could simply take everything i got and ban me in a nanosecond. but okay, whatever.this topic was to figure out where the community stands on ccp selling ingame items. so far, it seems like you all support it. which is fine i guess, it is a game and why should you waste hours mining or whatever to get in a ship and do whatever. i personally never had a problem generating ingame revenue to buy the ingame items i want.interesting outcome in this thread indeed."
"no the topic was, and i quote :\"them selling plexes directly is dumb.also, calling them plex is just as dumb.\"thats not a topic, thats two incomplete sentences you bumbling dipstick.just so that you, and anyone else whos bored enough to care has an example, this is how a topic/idea/issue is arranged.you're just venting because by your 5 year-old's logic, the selling of plexs in game - something which has gone on indirectly with gtcs for years - is somehow wrong.you provided nothing other than - if this happens - this has to happen - logic. which by the way, isn't just linear, it's something we in the business of knowledge refer to as inductive reasoning. it's also not even really an argument or proposal.this thread was a fraking joke from the first post onward. so don't try to come back 15 posts later as some kind of intellectual. you can barely even write english properly, let alone claim any sort of integrity. everyone in this thread who insulted you had a right to, simply because you began this thread insulting our intelligence. this board is for proposing things to be brought up by the csm to ccp. thanks to your trolling abilities, this \"topic\" has hung onto the first page now for nearly two days, and has not garnered a single support, or even the attention of the csm.so you know what? if this crap is going to be on the main page, i'll show you how it's done. besides - i have 2000 characters left.1. it's not the definition of paranoia, the definition of paranoia would require you to know my mental state which i strongly doubt you'll have any real evidence from a post on a space forums.no. check your english dictionary idiot. i use my words carefully as i am a classics major. your statement was paranoid in nature, and you are displaying a paranoid fear about ccp's intentions with game mechanics. 2. there no evidence that it won't, but i'm sure it's been brought up within ccp and maybe they should sell ingame items for money. i have no clue what the community wants and would of like to see what they had to say.maybe you're sure, i'm not, and since you don't have any evidence other than your own weird delusional fantasies, theres no way to address this gibberish.3. this thread nothing but insults and there has only been one decent post so far. you claiming i'm afaird of something has nothing to do with the topic at all. please stop derailing the thread.wrong - your paranoid worry about ccp's intention is the topic. if you do not like the drift of the conversation, do not start one. 4. 1: i don't know when linear logic was frown upon.he said two - liner. what he meant, you silly kid, is that your opening post was a mere two lines, not out-lining any real issue,proposal, or ideas other than your armchair opinions.5. (and this is my favorite) 2: i never heard of ccp scamming anyone.actually bud, there have been plenty of cases where ccp has been suspected of scamming players, and at least one case of an employee helping players without permission. not that this proves any point, other than your lack of knowledge about company and game history.6. this topic was to figure out where the community stands on ccp selling ingame items.well you should have said that right away. not that it matters, since they are not selling in game items. a plex is hardly an item. it's simply an ingame form of gtc. counts only for game time.you're an idiot. in the greek sense of the word. you should find another board to troll, and leave this one to the grown-ups."
"way too long about nothing. you get only one point for realizing i made this in the wrong section. i didn't want to pentition csm to talk about this issue, cause simply i have no clue if the community wouldn't mind being able to buy ingame items with outgame currency.i do think ccp selling ingame items is dumb and i also think the name plex when there are complexes in the game is dumb.1. let's talk about people's emotions i never met. you posting on a internet space forum, this is the defination of a hacker. stop hacking.2. uh, this thread was suppose to you know. have people talk about it, since there really no other thread addressing said issue. still you get half a point if you ever realize this thread simply is in the wrong section.3. wow that way --->>>seriously, just saying paranoid over and over. i merely say, i against them selling ingame items and thought the name was dumb. there plenty of stupid things ccp does, just cause some company does something stupid doesn't mean i'm scared. you're logic is worth then a 5 year old.4. <<<---- opps, it's this way.there is no proposal. i prefer discussion and find out if i'm over looking something. like let's say, this is a internet game and majority of the people on it are sick of doing busy work and just want to shoot eachother. they would be happy to purcash items from ccp with their countries currency.of couse, i'm happy with my previous system but ccp got to make the money and it seems like most people feel like this issue doesn't need any discussion.5. oh noes, ccp taking my internet money. shut up already if you're not actually going talk about the topic, plus that's not even the defination of a scam. victimize: deprive of by deceit; \"he swindled me out of my inheritance\"; \"she defrauded the customers who trusted her\";maybe wow is this way vvvvv6. plex are a ingame item, you can contract them. you can fly them around in space. heck, you can even trash them. just cause you can't fit them in your ships slots are do production with them, doesn't mean their not a ingame item. or are they people like my janitors and woman with questionable ways of gaining currancy.also, wow is really this way vvvv"
"so now the topic has moved on to kittens? i don't think i can contribute much to that topic. i only have two cats - one on each side of the fireplace. had to run off the road to hit the second one, he was fast, but now he's just a smear and a stuffed shell.get back to npc corps, so i can contribute something to tell the op how recycled and re-destroyed his idea is. npc corps are penalized enough, get a life."
"i do not support this, and i engage in pvpthe existence of npc corps is an integral game mechanic, akin to a pve only server in other mmo's like guild wars or wow.not everyone wants to pvp, they enjoy just mining. i have no idea why they just enjoy perma-mining/perma-mission running, when pvp is so fun, but that's what they want to do. what this is advocating is essentially taking the freedom/sandbox nature of eve out, and putting it so only the people who do pvp have fun in this game.there is high sec(mostly pve only, unless in a player corp which means your open to a wardec) and low/null sec, for the pvp aspect, akin to a pve and pvp server in wow or guild wars. the npc corp not only serves the function of providing a mostly pve environment, it also protects new players and people who don't enjoy pve from people who will grief them for it. it's an integral part of any mmo, and removing it from eve, i believe, would be detrimental to the game as a whole. as someone previously posted, half of eve's userbase is in npc corps, what do you think is gonna happen to that user base if the protection of npc corps is pulled out? logically, it would be much reduced, as people will get griefed left right and center, and thus ccp loses a large chunk of their playerbase/profit, and we lose people to interact with.not supported"
"fixed that for you. npc corps need some attention, not all of it negative but some for sure."
"i agree, as long as wardecs costs become 100mil per week instead of 2milthat will get rid of griefers. or... are you a griefer yourself and you just want to get more easy kills?"
"rolling on the floor laughing!!!!!!you kidding right? \"fee needs to be lowered\"................ yeah sure. like 2 millions is a fortune. omg we can't afford griefing a new miners corporation it costs 2mil every week oh the sky is falling it needs to be lowered i wanna blow stuff for free in high sec concord is ****!!!!!111"
"we all know how alexandre won at gaugamela, he cut through the flanks of the persian army, and took out the 'head of the snake' ie. the commander darius. causing the persians to rout.in a fleet battle the whole fleet gains a bonus from the leader, and off course would lose this bonus, theoretically, if the leader was knocked out. (correct me if i'm wrong)however the loss of a leader in a fleet battle doesn't make much of a difference.i have an idea, i reckon it'd be a good idea to place a greater duty of care on the fleet commander, the leader in fleet should play a more pivotal role within the games mechanics.i understand that any one can log on to vent or ts and become fc commanding the 'troops' as it were, but i'm speaking of the leader as per fleet screen overlay.i think if an opposing fleet tactically and brilliantly recognises and attempts to and manages to extinguish the fc, the rewards should be great!ie. a 10 second seizure of all locks, target sensing and such, which is a reflection of a disorientated state having lost the commander.this could give the other fleet a tactical advantage, it could cause the fleet who has lost its f c to rout, or become disarrayed in such a way as to give the one who has removed the opposing fc a reward for their exploits.i believe such an implementation within the game mechanics would give a wider and more realistic feel to fleet combat and would change the tactical and strategic makeup of fleet battles in eve in a positive and realistic way, as realistically, the commander must be protected and his loss is usually a massive blow!any comments?"
"it makes the fleet fall back on the secondary target caller, which can cause considerable confusion and loss if people are disorganized or unprepared for it.which is not always relevant. the player-created systems, outside of the straight game mechanics, are always more dynamic and interesting. heavily-defined game mechanic mechanisms like the point system in fw are boring and tedious. besides, a lot of people just put command ship alts in the in-game fc position instead of the fc/target caller.cursory intelligence gathering can get you information on who the enemy fcs are, so it is almost no accomplishment to find them. that said, the rewards for killing them are great, assuming you're more organized than your enemy."
"my suggestion would be to make it so, that every time any leader is lost, all those who received boni from him suffer a penalty of 100-200% the bonus for a short amount of time.not limited to the fleet booster, but also to squad boosters and so on. so if a squad looses it's booster, only the squad takes a hit for it for a short amount of time before someone else becomes booster.in addition, it should be possible to identify the leaders. not just simply by looking at them, but using a specialized scanning device like a \"fleet communications analyzer\", that can only be fitted to command ships, covops ships, recon ships, motherships and titans themselves. perhaps in different versions of increasing accuracy, so that the biggest command ships can do so much easier than a sneaky scout ship."
"thumbs down. its a bad suggestion over all. killing the fc can cause confusion in the ranks and other side effects but making them in-game side effects makes it seem pointless to me. unless ccp has plans for it (i highly doubt it) then i say no. --isaac"
"yeah - alexander didn't command a fleet.the system is fine how it is, theres no logical reason the elimination of a fleet commander would cause anything other than what it causes now- confusion.hell, it's hard enough to rationalise the bonuses they give.not supported."
"in ancient armies loss of a leader was catastrophic,in modern armies, not so much, i was in the military and can tell you that modern forces are organized so that everyone knows what they need to do and command structure is organized so that if one leader falls someone else can fill the void with very little disruption."
"forgot to show my support"
"aye.if your ship doesn't completely and instantly anhilate from a bolt of antimatter plasma, a ship hitting it isn't even going to scratch the paint."
"i'd like to give credit for this wonderful proposal to ashtardj of the scum alliance.with the upcoming introduction of t3 and the potential for skill loss when your t3 ship is destroyed, perhaps it's time to revisit the somewhat \"broken\" mechanic of ejecting from your ship. currently there is no benefit to ejecting save the scenario where you are choosing to leave your existing ship to pilot another one, and absolutely no reason to eject in combat. i'd like to propose (as per ashtardj's idea) that we introduce a mechanism to propel a pod a specific distance from the ship it left based upon a skill:pod displacement (rank 2)skill in mastering pod ejection mechanics, causing your pod to move away from your ship upon initiating an eject. each level of this skill adds 1 second to the amount of time that your pod travels when ejected.escape velocity (rank 4)skill in mastering pod ejection mechanics, causing your pod to move away from your ship for initiating an eject. each level of this skill adds 1,000 metres per second to the velocity at which your pod is ejected.if such skills were introduced, one other thing would also be required to make this work with existing game mechanics: an extra item would need to be added to the contextual menu, allowing someone to leave their ship without being \"fired\" up to 25,000 metres from their ship.this mechanic would provide incentive for people to eject from their ships, and whilst this would deny people of kill mails, it would give them the chance to procure ships in a less traditional fashion, and fits in nicely with the principles behind a salvaging profession."
"posting in support of this idea. the idea behind the skill was mine, but that was an afterthought; i'm really more interested in getting the ejection mechanics evaluated and seeing where we can go from there."
"a rank 5 skill is way too much investment for this, but the idea itself, of making ejection have some advantage on t1/t2 ships, is solid. i can generally support this."
"i agree that with 3 character slots i should be able to train them.if not all three, reduce it to two and allow training for those"
"i don't really see how this is debatable. in warcraft lets say, i think you can make something like 9 characters per server. they don't all just magically level up while you play one specific one, you have to invest time into it. most (if not all) other mmos are exactly the same. i don't see why eve should give people a pass to freely train characters, they effectively aren't investing time into.people get around this with multiple accounts, and ccp obviously isn't going to do anything about that, if the even could. being able to train skills on 1 character while not in game is an awesome thing that is, to my knowledge, unique to eve. they certainly don't need to hand you anything else however."
"latest dev blogsuccess!"
"lemme guess: you are a pvp carebear who will never enter 0.0 nor even lowsec so you need wardec limit to be gone and therefore get more easy kills .right?"
"after reading your responses, i must say i agree with you, it would be open to abuse, unless some refinement took place.one possible way would be for the pilot who 'kamikazes' himself to be unable to log on for 24 or 48 hours and all skills frozen.or a huge penalty in skill amount lost for this action, which could reflect a suicide of sorts.what do you reckon?"
"see this thread for past discussion on the topic."
"cooper i do understand the pain you have possibly experienced and i share it through my own - all you can do is suck it up as no amount of talking about it will help, if theres a smelly poo list of players the gm's keep i know im on it, maybe im not the only player on it :)take it on the chin and tbh like me never petition again whether it helps them or not its not worth the time m8"
"i guess since everyone makes this joke of wow ->>>this is what jumpgate series does and a few other.i be kinda shock if eve change their current system."
"i pretty much guarantee you this isn't going to happen"
"yeah, if people want a second character they normally want to be running it at the same time. some people will drop everything for a second character for a month though to train them up as a basic miner or trade character. only takes 3 weeks to be able to fly a retriever...."
"there is an easy solution today for training on multiple characters - get multiple accounts. it also works on gtc.so the isn't the real issue that people want discounts for holding multiple accounts?"
"le sigh. it is evident you have tried to build a reasonable system, so i will not scream to much, but your system will kill a lot of professions with no return.1) your system will kill invention. any system releasing new t2 bpo in a unlimited quantity will kill invention. a system that release a limited number of bpo will \"only\" reduce the number of t2 items worth inventing, so it will only mortally wound invention instead of killing it outright, but it will still be a mortal wound.2) the same people that has the brought t2 bpo will buy the new bpo, not because the bpo give much profit but because they are people with huge wallets and find a return of 1% acceptable as it is hard to manage very large capitals and get high returns. 3) building from t2 bpc made from bpo is very rare, as the copy time is way longer than the build time and require higher skills. it would be simpler to train another alt and get 11 more build slots than make copies of the bpo. so, most bpo holder will feel a sting as the bpo will lose value, but the inventors will feel the axe on the neck. don't seem a good idea."
"learning skills have no value, the only effect they have is to cause new people to wait 2-3 weeks before they can train anything of value, its simply a prerequisite to start playing. thats not \"hard\" or \"hardcore\" thats bad design. grinding on something for two weeks doesn't make you less like wow, it makes you *more* like it. eve is a \"hardcore\" game unlike wow because there are real risks in the game. in eve when you get killed you loose your ship, and everything on it, and if your not careful even your skillpoints. contrast this with wow where when you die you simply respawn and loose nothing of significance. eve is also different from wow in that you don't have to actively grind something to improve your skills, however the only net effect of learning skills is to prevent you from doing anything significant the first few weeks you start the game, its crazy, simply bad design and should be eliminated.eliminating the learning skills would best be done in fashion that scales by how long you have been able to benefit from them. i would suggest an sp refund via a linear percentage based on the age of your character, 0 days old 100% refund, 1 year old 50% refund, 2 years old 0% refund. so for example if you are 200 days old, and have spent 500000sp on learning skills, you would get back 72.6%, or 363000sp which you would be able to distribute instantly.one could debate on the exact formula used, but i think the general idea is sound, recognizing that older players have been able to benefit from having the skills while they existed, and refunding those who spent the points, but have not yet received a benefit from having them."
"i personally think it would be a good idea to add a for-pay option to change a characters name (similar to how its currently possible to pay to change your appearance). my primary motivation for this is that personally my ability to generate isk, _vastly_ outstrips my ability to fly anything, i'm only a few weeks into playing and i already could easily afford to fly (and loose) battleships. so i'm contemplating saving up some isk and mabe buying a new pilot for 5ish billion in a month or two, however my sticking point is that i really have no way to give it a name i am happy with. i am the kind of person where that simple fact would irritate me to absolutely no end. in addition and from more of a practical perspective, it would help to reduce confusion among people who knew the previous owner. furthermore it fits fine with eve, in a future where your consciousness can be transferred from clone to clone, i guarantee you that it would be possible to change a whole lot more than just your name, use your imagination :)"
"your prose, it makes for disquieting reading...insofar as i understand what you tried to convey, you could not be bothered to choose a good name for your character and this makes you nervous to the point of incoherence.there are some practical complications with your proposal, the most obvious one being that this would be abused by people for political reasons.as for changing ones appearance, that should be possible because people do choose to wear different clothing and make other changes to their appearance. however, i would not advocate drastically changing ones facial features to the point where one cannot be recognised. if that is important, one can always create an amarr character and go for the fully cloaked appearance. i've come to know some seriously impressive chins in my time between the suns of new eden.it is quaint how easy people forget the importance of a good name. a good name, especially one we can choose for ourselves, defines us in more ways than we first seem to realise. \"eternaln00b\" seems like a good idea [i don't know that someone calls themselves that in the game] at the time of creating a persona. after a few years, when one is no longer a n00b, one gets to enjoy that special kind of regret that comes with having to live with ones own poor life choices.don't lament having to change names. pick a good one to start with.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"did you actually read my post before you commented? you seem to have gotten the delusion that i don't like names i pick. i like *my* names, i don't like names other players give their characters. in the event i should choose to buy someone elses character with isk, as it is now i would be stuck with their name unable to give the character a decent one. aside from that, for those players that do pick crappy names, i don't see any problem with making a for-pay option similar to the one that already exists for appearances, to allow that player to correct his oversight later, it doesn't hurt anyone so long as some reasonable restrictions are in place. (limits like only one change allowed every 6 months or something)"
"never going to happen, simply too simple for the more dark and conspiring of us to negate any and all risk & consequences alike in ventures like thieving, scamming, griefing, etc.ccp are pretty keen on the balance between risk and reward so - without ccp providing a method to look up previous identities of characters through whatever mechanism they deem fit - it's just not going to happen.every few weeks someone who's ****ed people off seems to think it is a smart idea to \"suggest\" this option, with one or the other silly argument which does not address risk versus reward. funny. this one was slightly better then the last one, but still fail."
"several times, actually. it made a lot of sense, no doubt. to you.i now understand that you want to buy other characters because their increased skill points will allow you to fly the ships the increased skill point range will allow you to fly. you're not worried about generating the money to buy the ships because isk spontaneously extrudes from the free-flowing molecules in the air into your wallet [more power to you].your gripe is then that when you would buy somebody's experienced character, but you would hate it because of the poor choice the original owner had in choosing a proper name for the character and you could not live with that.that was worth a chuckle :). thank you.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"i wouldn't worry much about that for two reasons. firstly your character is most likely indexed in the database, not by its name, but rather by a unique numeric user id. that id would not change even if your name did, therefore it wouldn't effect any logging that is done.and secondly, if for some reason they do actually index by name, or for some other reason changing the name would pose such an issue, it would be equally trivial to implement a log of a players name changes and extend the logging capabilities to iterate through that list when doing querys in the log. either way the issue you bring up is easily resolved.not really sure what part you find funny, i think the request is pretty basic and understandable personally. i thought that i would demonstrate an example where such a feature would be useful and desired by the players. in addition making it a for-pay option would certainly limit its use."
"your suggestion is to enhance the overall immersion of the game. \"walking in stations\" essentially addresses your topic, and provides a platform on which it can be addressed even further, i would suggest checking out some demo videos. i think the devs mentioned that planet and space graphics will be getting some attention after stations is out, i hope that in that they bring in some additional astronomical features, theres a lot in space and i really think it would be great to bring in some more depth to the playing field."
"i agree with all of you, amy brings up some points that i would not have thought about and they are _very_ valid. as a new player i do feel that its important to allow one or two restats, its almost inevitable that your first character will be royally sqrewed up. i played one character for a week, then remade a new one after learning how messed up it was. i think both of amy's suggested alternatives are entirely reasonable, and well thought out.i agree with omber as well, personally i think this whole issue highlights an area where eve has failed to \"be true to itself\". theres no need for attributes, or these learning skills at all, just make everything a flat train time scaled by rank, its much smarter gameplay wise. as for attribute implants, you could either get rid of them, or replace them with a slightly different system like this: have 3-5 implant sockets that replace the attribute sockets, in them you could plug in a \"training implant\" these implants would decrease training time in a specific skill category, for example you might have an implant helping your gunnery skills improve, and one for navigation, etc. that would preserve the existing gameplay surrounding those implants (isk burn, and investment protection through jump clones)."
"can someone please provide linkage to where this was announced?cheers!"
"i'd like to add one additional comment. the last mmo i played was a game called ragnarok online, it bears absolutely no resemblance to eve except for one thing: stat entrapment. like eve, unless you did a great deal of research before ever making your first character theres a 99.9% chance that your first character will be completely screwed up, i played it on the official servers for 2 months, however eventually i realized that mistakes i made during character creation mandated that i redo my character from scratch. it was at that point that i quit the game.the reason i said that learning skills and attributes are not true to the concept of eve, is that it has been said that one of the great things about eve, as opposed to other games, is that should you decide to take a different carrier path, you can. the attribute/learning skill system highlights that not only is this incorrect, but you must choose your carrier at character creation and then not deviate from it much. do the game a favour and eliminate this design mistake."
"from the preliminary patch notes"
"thanks for the link, theres really a lot of great stuff in that."
"thanks!"
"#1. abandoned for year(s)? obviously referrs to towers that have ran out of fuel and have their shield down.#2. \"i would be happy with being able to only hack unanchored towers\" -- why in the heck would u need to hack an unanchored tower?#3. pos spam in sov -- its a broken mechanic that needs a whole new thread.can i please get a ccp/delagate response. this was supposed to be escalated. i know the game developers are balls deep in the new expansion, but these broken mechanics cannot be allowed to fall through the cracks and take another 2-3 years to solve."
"maybe because they can only do full damage with 3x painters, try again"
"tempest doesn't have a range problem, artillery has a range problem since its same for any ship that uses them, hence 1650mm arty to give added range.the designed tempest in the proposal really goes back to 2004 times where artillery was a powerful weapon because tracking didn't exist and hence it could \"hit and run\"./me notes down to say that everytime someone says typhoon is great. plus its 1 tp and web vs a bs target, vs smaller you have same problems as turrets do. that 1 sentence is the only thing you could reply to out of the whole post?"
"i'm not convinced about the op's proposal. to me the temp is an autocannon boat (if the mael gets changed into a sniper, that is). and because of the lousy optimal the damage at medium ranges is crappy. this is ofcourse the same for a gallente bs but that one makes up for it with increased dps and tank. the whole 'minnie is agile and fast' is completely lost on bs size ships and that is the real problem imo; ccp has to realize that racial designs might not work well for all shipsizes. this is ofcourse nothing new and it's actually a good thing as it keeps things diverse, but when it gets to the point where a whole (and important) shipsize simply doesn't work for a specific race then things are wrong.ofcourse i understand that 7.5% damage and increased tracking does help a lot but that still doesn't make up for the 'have to get in close to get some damage done', and then you find that it's damage lacks and it's tank isn't up to par either. i'd much rather get something like this;5% to projectile damage10% to falloff range125 m3 dronebay/bandwiththis way, while not making the ship 'beefier' it can now actually use a tactic by trying to keep stuff at range a bit, coupled with 2 heavy neuts that would work well.the mael simply should lose the shield bonus and replace that with a 5% optimal range and to make it less 'short range' lower it's dronebay."
"so basicly, the veldatar needs to be moved into amarr to join its son the veldnaught.while this would cause rage throughout new eden i'm sure it would also be a good tourist attraction. i am fairly confident that such a move would cause the major ccp favorism waggon to run on mwd's - so the proposal is, that if the veldatar cannot be moved to the favorism reason, the veldatar could be seen as a gift for the amarr empire becoming a stationary monument (like the luminare titan) with the exception of it bearing the ship's name of course.we would then have created the how-the-hell-can-ccp-let-people-spend-90-billion-isk-to-get-in-game-monuments-waggon.but really, let's get it into amarr so i can roam the belts in fully titan-mining-gear"
"i approve of this!"
"why the hell not"
"this asks for support"
"any proposition that furthers the cause of mining huge quantities of ore has my fullest support.plus, i want to see a titan up close :).abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"i approve of this plan, as long as it is restricted chribba only, ofc.sadly i doubt chribba, that ccp will do this for you, even if you do deserve it. the wish to avoid the whining, from the unwashed masses. personally i think you having those cap ships in amarr, and being willing to show them, adds so much to the new player experience. inspiring new players to continue to play eve, giving them a goal, with the ability you provide them to see some of the \"end game\" ships up close an personal so early in their eve life. i know i was awestruck when i was 2months old the first time i saw the veldnaught in amarr, many years ago."
"could even make it part of a storyline for the upcoming expansion. the ship gets sucked into a wh and spat out in amarr. the flux of energy crippling it permanently so its stuck."
"hell yes :)supported."
"not until i get a highsec carrier. anyway, try to find a wormhole or something."
"i wish..."
"i'll be receiving any iskies?"
"no."
"strongly disagree.acceptable. although it is a gift so the naming is fully up to the amarr empire and as a loyal subject you can do nothing other than obey whatever they choose to name it.supporting this, although it is quite a useless change to eve in light of other important issues."
"when i first joined people were telling me that if i wanted to do any sort of pvp i'd have to cross train away from caldari because missiles are useless.i cross-trained gallente and i am mostly happy with it in spite of the weaknesses of the race. i did not see a reason to specialize in anything caldari or missile related (ecm is kinda cool though, i have a scorp in hanger). what was the point of missiles? well, they were an inferior but (usually) usable projectile turret when i first joined up, and torpedoes had a long range for a short range turrets, although their damage wasn't really up to par. now they don't really seem to have one at all. turret ships are generally better in some way against stationary targets anyway (with the exception of large autocannons), and much better against moving ones. if you want to make missiles only good against stationary targets, can't they at least be better at destroying stationary targets than turrets are?it doesn't even make sense for pve really; you can do better in an ishtar or armegeddon than you can in a raven or drake with the right skills.if missiles are not in for a fix, why not just throw in the towel at balancing them and make the caldari a agile shield-tanked turret race with missiles as their main secondary weapons system, like the minmatar? minmatar seem to be a little underpowered anyway so it won't break anything, will it?hell, if you wanted to nerf them to begin with why not just nerf the missile hardpoints on missile ships so that ravens were no longer the pwn machines people thought they were because they had split weapons systems?it's hard to think of anything missiles can do better than turrets. torpedos will slightly outdamage a mega neutron hardpoint for hardpoint but no ship can fit as many torpedoes as a megathron or hyperion can fit neutrons, and the moment something starts moving torpedoes aren't very effective anymore. rockets have a really low explosion radius, but their dps is so terrible they are hardly worth using anyway (range could also maybe use a slight boost so that they can operate outside scram range).maybe standard missiles are still ok? don't know for sure on that much. citadel torpedoes?i'm signing this just because i think there should be a reason (other than ecm) to fly caldari ships. either make the caldari less reliant on missiles or make it so that missiles can't be outrun by ships larger than the size they were intended to hit, or just do something to make missiles useful.there are a few promising caldari features (ecm, their shield buffer tanks can be very strong, sensor range, agility modifiers, free low slots etc...) but the fact that they rely on a weapon system that is effectively useless makes them sub-par.tl;dr: missiles don't have a point. this hurts the caldari a lot. either make the caldari a turret race or give missiles some kind of thing to make them not look like really useless turrets.also signed."
"like so many other things in this game, it seems that ccp have over-nerfed missiles to the point where at bc/bs size they are essentially useless.large missiles were hardly setting the world alight pre-qr so it boggles the mind as to why ccp feel the need to nerf them even further.cruise missiles seem very average and torpedos are barely useable other than in bs fleet battles.the raven, once considered the best ship on eve, now lags behind the megathron, the armageddon and even the tempest for dps output and number of build requests.this stinks of the fame fate that befell webs, nanos and nos: ccp see something that's too good, then instead of balancing it they just make it awful with no regard given to the players who have spent months or years skilling in those areas."
"moa, ferox, rokh, vulture, eagle and a few more.when was the last time you flew said megathron?"
"also confirming regular missile boats i.e. cerebus do not seem to have suffered badly, have not flown with citadel torps since the newest nerf."
"i generally prefer being in an ishtar or dominix, although those are both expensive for me to risk.also the caldari get a few turret ships too. they are for the most part inferior to those of other races, with a few advantages to make them stand out, which is fair enough. but can't their missile ships be primarily turret ships with a little bit of missiles as long as missiles aren't useful? if they're a little bit worse than racial alternatives, but still useful and special, that's fine too."
"missiles are useful."
"what are they good for exactly though? what do they do better than say, a pulse laser? and do they do it better enough to make it worth using missiles? i'd like to know. when i first joined people told me \"no\". looking at the missile damage formula that was spaded missiles now do such poor damage they're hardly worth considering.i have learned the hard way that mwding your thorax directly toward a mega is a bad idea, but if you do it toward a raven it's not really all that risky now.again, what are missiles useful for exactly? and do missile ships exploit any such advantage in a way that distinguishes them from other ships?ps: look at all the people whining that minmatar ships need to get rid of their launcher hardpoints in favor of more turrets. projectile turrets aren't even all that awesome. right now it seems amarr is the way to go."
"i am start a formal petition to eliminate the turret nerf that has been put into effect with the release of the queantum rise expansion. according to these new \"changes\" turrets of all sizes are relatively ineffective against ships. every \"class size\" that the turrets are designed to target can move faster than the turret's tracking. therefore, the only way to get your base damage back is to target something bigger than your turrets were made to shoot. even then the speed of the vehicle is still faster than your turret tracking and decreases the damage. so i ask you to sign your name and or comments to this petition to return turrets to thier old already weak state. or to at least change the specs to make turret use viable again."
"they are good for damageing things.why should they be better than pulse lasers?the still hit things in orbit, now matter if close or wide orbit?no matter if it is a frigate or battleship? yeh, because people fitting their caldari ships for the biggest tanks and afterwards finding out that there aint much damage left without damage mods are the ones to be asked about what to fly.also if your damage gets reduced due to the target moving, you just slow your target down, its what turretusers do all the time. while even cruisemissiles from a raven hurt orbiting interceptors, turret-bs will never ever hit them once. on the other hand, its is kinda unfair that anything, from a frigate to battleship, fitted with bonused missiles still hits orbiting ships for damage, when turrets rotate way behind their tracking.but orbiting the megathron pretty closerange reduces your taken damage to zero, while the raven still hits you, amirite?again, they do damage. maybe you dont get \"weapons\" but the point of them is doing damage to things around.you wont and you should not do full damage to that frigate in that mission with your torpedo or cruisemissile, yet you will hit it, you will hit everything in pve and pvp, in situations where turrets wont ever hit.at this point, you are telling that you absolutely have no clue about the other races.anyway, replies to this thread : 588, supports: 119. seems like missiles are way to ok-ish for the majority of eve."
"signed..."
"funny enough..i am working on amarr bs v at this time even though i can fly a nagflar now. why? i want to be more effective and not on the short list of primaries for easiest to kill."
"that kind of authority comes \"for free\"... there is no \"kick alliance members/disband alliance\" role you can remove and detach from usual corp management directorship afaik..."
"agreeda alliance of corperations flying under one flag should not be dissolved under the power of one person it should take a vote from every ceo of every corperation within that alliance,a complete re-working of alliance/ceo powers should be relooked at."
"i disagree, firstly i would suggest that these comments are out of fear, not out of disagreement with the mechanism itself. i would also suggest that this mechanism, however flawed, is one of the best things that has happened in eve. it forces people in alliances to remember to be careful who they trust, and also not to p*ss off the directors, cos they can screw your whole game over. put basically, if the players and directors in tafkab had treated eachother a little more decently, this director guy wouldnt have emoraged the alliance right down to the 9nth circle of hell. god knows it might just teach people the fact that just cos theres an internet between them and other people it doesnt mean they can be d*ckheads....."
"thisevery type of government would have benefits as well as drawbacks. one of those drawbacks of course being the result we're faced with now."
"thats completely irrelevant. dont be such an easy kill then."
"i'll agree with changing wardecs as soon as hisec is less profitable. when the ability to make huge wads of cash in hisec is crippled, then we can talk about nerfing wardecs."
"wardecs are essential to the game. without them... there would be much less destruction in the game.which would be bad for the game.stupid wardecs without definition or purpose is the real culprit in the game.having 20 people wardec a stationbear alliance, or wardec another corp of giant numbers that they couldnt possibly fight.being wardecced makes you play the game differently. even if the entire other corp is offline. this essentially fits in as griefing. you pay a measly nonexistent price. just to cause other people ingame to play differently. that isnt fun.they need to bring a much more advanced interface to wars.setting goals: -destruction or removal of a pos @ x place.-x amount of damage inflicted.-# of ships destroyed.-ransom amount.then depending on how much you want to inflict and your goals, is how much the war costs.obviously the person getting wardecced wouldnt see what the goals are; exception being ransom.as for op... leave ur corp and goto nub corp if you cant deal with it. or go play an alt. you have 2 other characters on your account. no reason you cant go play one of those while the wardec dies out."
"there has to be ways to interfere with other players and try to force things to change to your favor, since we all live in one big sandbox. in highsec the wardec -system is the only real tool available to do this. it is sometimes a blunt tool, that could be replaced by a more refined mechanic in some cases, but sometimes it is exactly what is needed.the reasons for wardecs, that i have personally been a part of are: -personal insult/aiding friends-denying the other some resource -getting more targets in your area of space. the corps targetted are selected for a reason, but for them it might seem random. either they use the same resources as us, one of their member might have a bad history with us or they are likely to actually fight. this means sometimes deccing corps with superior numbers, so they might actually come out and fight.the whole point is to force the others to play their game differently. in the case of denying a resource or aiding a friend, it doesn't matter, if they are offline during the wardec. the goal is accomplished in any case. people know how the system works and can guess how the opposite side reacts. they can then use this knowledge to achieve their goals. i wouldn't object to adding actual goals to wardecs, allowing advanced options and tweaking the price, but total war must remain an option. the reasons and meaning for wardecs should be defined by the people who start the war and not be limited to some pre-defined options by ccp."
"totally disagree with the op , a war dec no matter what the reason has purpose and if the dec is against new players then the war dec gives them a intro into pvp and pvp game mechanics in empire,there is a positive in every negative, enjoy the war have fun it wont last forever lol"
"i don't think they should be removed, part of eve is that there's no place safe from pvp. however, the fees should definitly be raised, 25mil at least. 2mil for a war dec is pointless, because anyone can afford it, and 1 kill during the week can pay for that 2mil many times over."
"wardecs are part of eve and should not be removed, live with it and be prepared to defend your corp, or stay in npc corps, which are a perfectly valid alternative for those players that do not wish to engage in wars.ccp agreed that it is mostly used as a pay-to-grief system, but instead of whining about how unfair eve is and threaten to quit, perhaps it would be more productive to come up with things you'd like to see changed, instead of aiming for a complete removal, which is unrealistic and never going to happen as that'll destroy a large part of eve."
"the fix is to remove highsec and watch the problem disappear."
"1/10 troll has been tried alot and better"
"2 mil to dec a corp does seem a bit cheap, you can get that much in 20 minutes, it's utterly trivial.i understand the logic of having it increase in cost with multiple to discourage people from using it for kicks but i think better would be having it discounted (or free) if the target corp has had recent aggression timers with the declaring corp. also maybe make it free for a defending corp to extend a wardec (so that declaring war doesn't mean you'll be free of it after a week if it turns out you miscalculated).otherwise it should be more expensive than it currently is, a strong corporation that doesn't have to defend anything stationary could wardec whoever they please without their target able to defend themselves in any meaningful way and hide away if it turns out that they can and wait out the war until the check is no longer theirs to pay.wardecs aren't really that bad if they happen once every few months to a corp that doesn't bother anyone. it doesn't much make sense, but if the random griefing is infrequent it's manageable because there is time to rebuild after the fighting. it gets ridiculous if an uncoordinated war dec follows after another, though, or if you have to deal with three in the same month, etc, which has been happening lately.i don't think removing them is a good idea since it'll effectively give impunity to highsec pirates that don't get on the wrong side of concord, like a can flipper in a shuttle. they should however be a more significant decision than they are now, you shouldn't be motivated to simultaneously wardec two corps you never heard of before just for the fun of it, and it definitely should not be cheap.making wars more costly might help as an isk sink against the inflation introduced by bounties and mission payments, anyway, if inflation is a problem.not supporting this topicps: maybe concord should get ****ed if a corp that hasn't paid for a war dec helps a corp that did in a fight with the decced corp via logistics. at least make it so that the attackers have to all dec and can't work around it by sending a large fleet of reppers to help out some guy's mega."
"or you know, you could band together as empire industrial corps into this fancy thing called an alliance, you know, the sorta thing that deters random wardecs?...just a thought."
"an alliance needs quite a bit of isk and skills, not as simple as just \"making an alliance\""
"perhaps the same thing should be required of corps? a bit more isk.. say 50 mil atleast to make one? that would also help this problem."
"ccp have stopped all wardecs vs npc corps. if you want to chat with friends, then go ahead and do so via a chat channel. if you want to be in a player corp, then you open yourself up to pvp via wardecs. thats the whole point of a player corp. the first thing new corps should do is build up a stockpile for their first wardec - because it will happen eventually. it involves the corpmembers working like a corporation insted of a bunch of solo players with a chat channel. build up a massive warstock as a corporation and then you can have fun. if you are part of a corp where everybody is a solo player or even a corp where you just mine/mission away forever and the corp has no plan with how to deal with their wardecs, then i am afraid to say, you are in the wrong corp."
"what the title says. they are an alt corp no questions there."
"end it."
"also children of gjallarhorn, or what they are called."
"is it possible to only have alliance leaders/ceo's and diplomats communicate on caod?"
"hell no, it keeps the trolls out of the other useful channels. you can keep them in caod where any sane person doesn't look. use intergalactic summit if it's important. not signed, keep the trolls posting in caod to help keep the rest of the forum clean."
"was just a after thought :)caod imo is a forum for alliances and corp to dscuss primarily politcal issues bewteen them;'from political conflicts to battle reports, news, and corporation press releases  this is the in-character political center for all things corporate'.i personnally find it interesting to read what is going on in the political arena of eve - just a shame its trolled to such a extent that its impossible to read - all i have learned from it is goons and others just spam it with total irrelevant posting causing caod to sink deeper into the sewers"
"caod hasn't been a serious forum for over three years as far as i can tell. it's too late to remedy this, so we might as well keep it as is to stop the forums from being flooded with all the trash that inhabits that forum at present.it's a form of damage control; i like to read the forums, but i don't bother with caod, because frankly there's no point. anything anyone needs to say will be said elsewhere, and caod can be left for the trolls and the goons. i recommend if you're interested in reading about alliances and corporations that you simply look around the other forums; the information you seek is available outside caod."
"i agree.the internet was funny when it was just a few guys in an obvious alt corp just posting random rubbish, but now they let in anyone who just wants to post obnoxious **** on caod (and there's enough of that already tbfh). now instead of being somewhat amusing, they are just sad and pathetic (just like my posting i bet, real cutting edge joke there)obvious alts, posting obvious smack should be obviously banned. csm is not the correct forum, but there's been worse threads in here so what the hell."
"good idea, but its probably way too late to turn caod into something other than the joke it is."
"i like bandwagons, prepare the stoning table!"
"oh yea its to late...but still i want to close them down just to **** them off and to make ccp look like the actualy care about forum rules."
"this is my main. i do stuff. indeed, i won't be affording any alts until i receive my gaming bailout/stimulus package. this is completely unfair that you would libel our entire corp based on the alleged actions of 2 atlas guys."
"doom. is an alt corp created for alt-posting in caod. mods please do your jobs and ban them from the forums.thank you,your king"
"the internet are the best damned thing on coad (since they banned windy anyway), they are alts from across the whole spectrum of alliances and do nothing more than hold up a mirror to you all; if what you see is unfunny, trollish buffonery, semi-literate stupidity, arrogance and the just plain sad then stop blaming the mirror cos you're ugly."
"i say nay"
"agree, internet is bad posters.walp wrong character"
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"get the **** out you ****ing ***got"
"signed"
"is this solution reasonable?ingame corp interface: create a spokesperson position that gives a 'can post on caod' abilityadditional rules:- costs 25m to appoint or change a spokesperson- 1 spokesperson per 50 members in corp other than ceo (ceo can always post)ok, now for some off the wall ideas:other rule for caod:- you cannot post on caod if you have less than 50m isk in your wallet? - 50m isk fine to your character if you get moderated on caod"
"fed up reading there muck"
"i would totally support that"
"the internet. is an elite pvp alliance not made up of alts. we will take the glorious region of cloud ring as the beginning of our brutal campaign of elite pvpness."
"ta, think it needs its own thread, as tbh it's a more general suggestion?"
"agreed."
"i also like how sk rooster voted with not only himself but all of his alts in a row. keep trying there bucko!"
"show me on the doll where the bad the internet. touched you. oh and what the hell..signed"
"can you guys please take this whining to another board?"
"i just told you we are not alts. we are an elite pvp alliance that is going to take cloud ring. **** off!"
"why dont you people get a room...better yet... war-dec each other and kill each other.seriously.... gtfo."
"hey sk rooster, don't you think it's a bit ironic that you're launching a one man crusade against the internet. because in you're view they're just an alt posting corp?i'm only mentioning it because i notice that you used your own alts american tourist and chinese tourist to post directly after you supporting your view in this very thread. and it's not just a one off thing. you did the same thing in this thread and many others.so it's ok if you do it but not when others do, is that correct?"
"you should support this topic then?"
"miners can drop their ore directly into one of the holds of an orca without needing (secure) cans or anything similar. this creates a completely safe mining environment (apart from suicides) which just shouldn't be.increased asset security is good and understandable, and putting in effort and thought should make things safer, but 100% safety is not what eve is about. any thoughts?"
"1. lacking an orca. they sit there with 1 unit in the can. they drop in the can and then grab it immediately.truly... the creation/use of orca just makes less bandwidth and checks required. which is good."
"there is no 100% security because in large belts the orca driver has to haul in cans from tens of kilometers away.so, there is always a chance that an honest-working can flipper could interfere.dropping ore into the corporate hangar is as it should be.there is nothing to stop you from shooting at any ship you like. you don't need an excuse at all.why do you believe a miner should accomodate your need to facilitate the destruction of their ship?plus, not everybody has access to an orca. they tend to be rather pricey.i don't see your problem.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"and that's where you're wrong. if the miners are within 1500m of the orca they can directly dump their ore into one of the hangars without needing to use cans whatsoever. that's my issue with them.i don't have problems with their role as ore collector/mining booster using their tractorbeam bonuses. it's the fact that if they choose to sit right next to their miners they don't need cans at all."
"so what? \"carebears\" are paying an incredible amount of isk to have an orca with which they can mine \"safely\" without having to fear some can switchers....isn't that what the orca is suppose to do?"
"this method is 100% failsafe, which there shouldn't be in eve. and 500 mil isn't exactly 'an incredible amount'."
"the little highsec pirates life became more difficult?"
"have no problems with things becoming more difficult or challenging. but immunity is something eve shouldn't have, and atm with an orca you're immune."
"so, what's the difference exactly from being able to mine into the cargohold of a hulk? besides scale? that's 100% fail safe, no way to steal ore that way.but here's an idea for ya: join corp of miner you want to rob. work your way up to getting corp hangar rights. sit next to orca with your own orca, wait for corp hangar to fill, take all the ore out of it and put it in your own orca cargohold. ho wait, that's not 100% fail safe!!1! guess i broke your thread huh? nother suggestion: join random corp, skip ore stealing, just fire away at corpmates without concord interfering"
"come back when you are capable of rational thought."
"talking to yourself ey? everything i said is as it is, i know it must suck for you but i only state things that are completely true. but feel free to take a shot at any of my statements. or make another reply without arguments but with insults like you just did if you like. it still won't make you right and as for the thread, well, that was going nowhere from the moment you hit the post button so nobody is going to mind anyway."
"ok, how long would you survive, if you flip a can in mining ops with an orca and like 4-8 hulks?ya, you expect to loose your flip boat and then? you come with a bs?if youre lucky you will be able to kill maybe one hulk before around 50 drones dismantle your bs while your tackled by em."
"ok, lets check your amazing reasoning. hulk has a limited cargo (even when expanded) and will have to dock up to unload ore, meaning less optimised ore/hour. it's also one ship so as with every ship; as long as it doesn't get suicided it's cargo is safe (apart from other ways ofcourse). with an orca several miners can drop their ore off in complete 100% safety and then the orca can dock up unload and be back way before the miner's cargo hold is filled up again. this also means that he doesn't have to invest in expanded cargo holds but he can fit more mining upgrades, increasing his yield even more.on your join the corp thing; that would be the same as saying that low sec piracy can be completely removed as it's just as easy to join a corp and then start killing your corp mates. this reasoning just doesn't make any sense whatsoever. especially not since you tell me to use my own orca (?) to then steal from the other's hangar(?).as stated earlier; come back when you can come up with some actual reasoning instead of obvious flamebait, but tbh i like replying to this flamebait as it gives me the opportunity to expand why i disagree with the situation as is. it may reach more people that way.thanks."
"our confirmed kills list states otherwise."
"i guess you are horribly informed how miners playstyle is"
"or mine, for that matter"
"well, i would simply not engage in such a case, i think no can flipper will. but like i said, the orca gives us nothing new besides larger scale, and guess what, that's what it was designed to do...."
"like i stated several times, it just ups the scale. mining without having risk of ore theft was always possible, transfering it to a hauler without risk too. there is such a thing as secure containers which you can anchor. hell, you as a can flipper should know, it's the first advice flippers give when someone is *****ing his ore got stolen. it's even safer than using corp hangar in orca. only problem is, it's a ***** to do. so, the orca makes it easier and ups the scale of what was already possible. gee, not something you would expect from a (sub)capital mining support ship. or is it? i was just giving you some ideas, like i said, it is entirely possible, just takes some effort, but i guess you're looking for quick easy targets. and yes, your own orca to steal ore from corp hangar of other orca. or any other boat with a cargohold, i just mentioned orca for it's huge cargohold and to add some irony. well, statements still stand nother thing, most miners who aren't complete noobs will not have their ore stolen and/or be tricked into agressing you. so if the orca was \"fixed\" it would not yield you any significant increase of targets. which makes this entire discussion rather hypothetical. now i don't mind that one bit, but you might be more pragmatic, in that case i advise you to find other ideas to get more 'yarrr' going on in hi-sec. just one of my friendly tips."
"there is a safety vs mining yield, safer game play at the cost of lower yield due to using secure cans or docking up and unloading ore. it's the main reason why ccp refuses to increase secure can sizes; as to have a choice between optimised yield or safety.now it's and faster and 100% safe, and that's not how it should be."
"as i described, it's not 100% safe. very hard to get at, but not 100% safe. even without secure cans, like i said, experienced miners will not have their ore stolen anyway. they just park hauler next to hulk, jet can, transfer quick. if you wanna talk about flawed safety/mining yield ratio, i guess you're kinda miffed with secure containers too. they're so small they basicly have no use for a skilled miner. everybody who does not have corp/alt hauler support flying a hulk will just cargohold mine, unless in a system they deem as 'safe'. using your logic, even having a hauler is bad in the first place, it increases yield and safety compared to jet can mining with just a single hulk, docking up and switching to hauler to go and empty your can."
"nope.i have no problems with people using secure cansi have no problems with people moving back and forthi have no problems with people putting in effort (security or just being smart)i have no problems with people trying the quick switch trick, in fact i love it. gives me plenty kills.i have no problems with things being difficult, challenging or needing efforti have no problems with people accepting lower rewards to increase their securityi do have problems with a 100% failsafe way of doing things while at the same time increasing rewards."
"i love it when a pirate turns into a 3 year old and starts throwing a tantrum.the orca was designed for this you jackass.... grow a fricken brain.go to 0.0 and youll find plenty to shoot."
"to be honest this is working as it should. as you yourself admit they are not 100% safe. there is still risk from suicide ganking (there are even a couple of threads about this atm), and you must accept that an orca is a considerable investment for this 'safety'."
"you do realise you only get those kills cause you're exploiting a bug right? namely that in case of lag or being very slow at the miner's side you are able to steal the ore while his client gives no warning that he is about to steal. if that isn't an easy kill i don't know what is. for all you know ccp designed the orca to circumvent this bug."
"i am but a doe-eyed blinking innocent little carebear, i know nothing of the big world you people so smoothly operate in.tell me, educate me, if combat is that thing that you so dearly crave, why not just go down into the netherworld of low to nul security where you can maim and slaughter to your heart's content? is that not what you want? do you not seek the shrieking-yet-brutally-curtailed howls of pain as the air vents from the compromised space frame into the endless void between the stars?do you not crave the spectacular effects of giant ships succumbing to the onslaught of your mighty weapons as their structure buckles under explosion after explosion of the <insert the ammunition type of your preference> that you so generously inflict upon them?do you not seek to mull around in the cloud of expanding debris, grasping for that sacred prize of all: loot, sweet merciful loot!, that you can raise in your hands and display to your brethren while you expel a blood-curdling growl from your lungs as you celebrate your latest fabulous victory against the impossible odds that you overcame so as to make a name for yourself in the new eden demesne? is the greater good not the curt nod of acceptance as your peers stand in silent awe, maybe even [yes, praise the light of the very stars!] in jealous contempt, of the glory that you gather as your fearful adversaries whisper your name in silence throughout the galaxy so that it preceeds you as a cloud of quickly expanding toxic gas that steals the very breath from those who have the audacity to oppose you?art thou not the master corruptor? art thou not the scourge of the universe, is there any bounty that can atone for the villainy that you so generously foist upon all who dare take up arms against you? is the greatest prize new eden has to offer not merely a pittance in recognition of that marvellous creature that here stands before us, lamenting the meager contents of a pedestrian container, looking like a stray dog for the puny solace of the equivalent of a half-eaten meal? are we to believe that our blood is enough to still your great, vast hunger? was this the goal that you embarked on in your voyage between the stars? are they synonyms now: pirate, pauper, peon?or could it be, perish the thought, that anything that offers more resistance than a weak shield and a thick hull, is too much of a challenge for those who would cackle with glee over yet another victory over the defenceless?come, let's have mercy on the beggars. i must have some refuse left after last night's efforts. i shall send you a million isk so that you at least won't be without the benefits of an honest day's work even though you clearly haven't seen one yourself.no need to thank me, the table is never so empty that there are no crumbs left for the hungry.abulurdme meceonote: corporate comptroller, please send one million isk to the account of tzar'im. maybe he can buy some gizmo to pretend victory among his friends."
"@ganki petitioned myself for doing it a long time ago the reply was that nothing odd had happened. i also don't believe in the \"i never got a warning message\" while at the same time stating \"i didn't have messages turned off\". you know full well how eager"
"nice writeup, must admit. still somehow stating that high sec should be safe/left alone and that 'true' stuff happens in low sec or 0.0 shows that you don't exactly understand eve."
"try it yourself, i have reproduced this bug b4. it does not warn you. i lost me a ship this way and petitioned it too. response was \"logs show you stole, nothing odd. but file a bug report if you are sure\". so i did. still in processing. ppl who wanna try for themselves:"
"empire is never safe and is never 'left alone'use a wardec, or suicide ship and achieve the same results."
"i sense pirate tears.move valuable than carebear tears any day.if there in a corp working together with an orca war dec em hunt em slay em. profit.if there in npc corp but they are clustered close enough for an orca...you can consider suicide bombing them. (not sure how that works these days).whats that phrase? adapt or move on.(though slightly off topic..i hate npc corps for any character older than the trial period)"
"working as intended much?"
"well, as it never happened to me (i don't mine) i can only go by what a gm tells me. keep me updated on what happens to that bug report/petition.in the mean time i'll still stand by what i say, regardless of the trolling folks; being able to drop goods/ore directly from one ship into another without needing an extra step makes things too easy."
"thats total bull****, it wouldnt be difficult to anchor a gsc between those ships.will you then cry cuz you cant access that gsc?"
"if you'd have actually read the thread then you would have understood that no, i don't mind that. it takes effort and you can't move a lot of ore at the same time. you're also confined to a single spot. but feel free to troll without actually reading threads."
"pretty sure rookie corps cant use the corporate hangar on an orca because it requires permissions, even for being the pilot of the ship, to get things out of it."
"if i get in this close i really want to do my on paper dps somehow, tracking would help that. signed.and yeah large autocannons in particular lost out too. again, i think right now amarr is the way to go. ishtar is cool though."
"there aren't enough significant differences between the 3 close run guns. they all have nearly same damage output - with a single damage mod making one better than the rest. ship damage bonuses overshadow the default differences. then what it really comes down to is the type of ship you fly - strengths and weaknesses, plus tracking, optimal range, and falloff.all of those factors make pure damage differences insignificant.the only significant differences in close range weapons we have are between missiles and guns.in my opinion, we should have more pronounced differences between the three gun types. of course there'll be plenty of people crying over balance - the type of people who think that balance is achieved by homogenizing everything, erasing as many differences as possible. it's a boring type of balance and people calling for that shouldn't be taken seriously.ideally, blasters should be kings of damage for short range - they should be hard to operate, as reflected by range and tracking, but they should be undeniably most damaging weapons. to create a noticeable difference in damage, blaster damage output would need to be increased about 20% - which is roughly a free damage mod.with that, everybody would clearly see that blasters are most damaging weapons. then would come the arguments of balance. people would cry blasters are too powerful. and maybe their concerns would have some valid points. but the way to balance would not be to nerf the damage output, it would be to look into optimal range, falloff range, and tracking stats.similarly, autocannons should be kings of falloff and tracking. make their tracking undeniably more powerful than all other guns - a clear cut advantage from other weapon types. then there may be more imbalance objections, but the way to address those would be to look into damage output.the pulse laser strength is in the best optimal range of all short range guns. they can provide a nice medium of damage and tracking between blasters and autocannons, while having clearly pronounced advantage of optimal range.that's how we should balance things - respect diversity, make the game more edgy"
"whats really absurd is your obviously the idiot in this equation.stop station camping... you just might get your stupid little kill in your stupid little war."
"i was thinking that also.the problem i thought of though was... what about those in 0.0. kind of hurts."
"you think 50 wartargets camping a single guy needs to be boosted? gtfo."
"no... i think people who wardec much larger targets and then running from a fight 100% of the time is just plain stupid.they either have interceptors orbitting 300-500km away and will run the moment they see anything coming towards them. or battleships playing station games on a messed up station with a 20km undock-bump range.it's fair enough i can understand why they wont engage... but they are the ones who wardecced us. lets just change the mechanics to end the stupid station games everyone hates."
"someone call a whaaabulance?"
"my 2 cents and btw not supported;1) if the undock redock is extended or taken away then and lets be honest noone will undock at all, at least with current mechanics you get a chance no matter how small to pop the tgt by using bumping, alts, cloakers ect to aid you2) i would reccomend to remove the annoying tgts that constantly dock and redock to have a gradual exended time that would increase with every time they dock and undock so 1st undock they wait 30 secs, 2nd undock 1 min 3rd undock 2 mins ect ect ecti mean seriously what station manager would accept some idiot wasting their time continually undock/redocking causing station ques to get longer and mess with the schedule"
"alright, no i'll agree with you on this and i think every pvp player will agree: station aggro and undocking mechanics are incredibly bad and in dire need of a fix.i support:-every station a kickout, so that by the end of your 30 second invulnerability timer you are 15km from the station (like gates)-no windows to peek out-aggro timer scales on the size of the ship that aggress.unfortunately the whole \"we only engage unless we have vast superiority (aka the blob)\" is quite common in eve. i keep stressing against changes like the gigantic qr agility buff that makes it easier for people to avoid combat and run away whenever they like and this is what results."
"only supported if there is this high-tech feature called \"window\" that allows people in the station to see what's going on on the doorstep."
"lol... that would be an awesome invention :d"
"you're insane! it can't be done! too dangerous!"
"why? if you're so worried about being shot as you come out the station, put some effort in and scout the area.you wouldn't jump into lowsec without scouting the gate, why should this be any different if you're wardecced?"
"ever been in a war dec before? you don't need a window you have local. if your stupid enough to undock when 40-50 red stars are in your system you deserve to be shot. why not do what the rest of the people do undock in a pod if your so worried."
"i feel the hatelots of terrible hate over this thread"
"if you cannot figure out how to get a fight away from the dock range of a station, you are doing it wrong, uninstall please and get off my forum"
"this + fix"
"not sure, i think buying sp isn't the way forward as it goes against eve game philosophy.however i would like to see better rewards from agents, ie. a reward of a certain amount of sp or a reward of a level up, up to a certain amount of points after completing some long mission series or something.this would make missions all the more rewarding."
"great idea!/signed"
"no way. right now, mission runners supply materials to the economy, that are used to produce the things that mission runners and pvpers need. the current system is working well."
"*facepalm"
"hate disconnects mostly cause of the drone thing"
"this."
"i was a little disturbed to see a leading delegate making an accusation in caod about a leading alliance and various out of game tactics alleged to be in use by them."
"its an important topic, i'd like to hear this discussed."
"o.0"
"please stop posting already."
"please go post this crap in jita park or crime and punishment.... this has nothing to do with game mechanics.. hell go make a petition.... but stop making yourself out to be a emo jackass."
"the description of this forum is ' a platform for players to bring topics to the attention of the council of stellar management.'"
"quite the constructive and mature response from an elected delegate. to think you represent the players is a little worrying with that attitude."
"that's how the csm works, thousands of voices want you to shut up, so instead of cluttering a thread with them we elect people to tell you what everyone wants."
"and my description of you is a person who has no brain and would like to trash up the boards with \"kill the goons\"this is a forum board for discussion of ideas for the game.... not about conspiracies and bullcrap you can drum up."
"6/10 - could do better. needs more application. shows potential."
"again read the forum description. the word ' topics ' is the give away. i am bringing a ' topic ' to the csm's attention. the topic here is meta gaming and out of game tactics to influence in game events.darius johnson has publically stated he has been a victim of this. as a csm delegate he is in the best position to bring this to ccp's attention and lobby for ccp to resovle the grey area that surrounds this practice.he must have proof otherwise why make the public statement? i don't belive that many players like or except meta gaming, so why not try and put a stop to it?"
"maybe your just being a pathetic loser and refusing to take it like a man.take it to the game.. leave that crap off this board."
"this is probably a troll but i don't care. virtually every serious alliance ensures key members have means of out-of-game communication. if you want to stir up a fuss about people giving other internet spaceship gamers their phone numbers when said spaceship gamers are presumably responsible individuals who know the consequences of passing out contact details, then stir up a fuss about forums, teamspeak , irc and msn. oh, and e-mail. hell, campaign against vocal chords as well, and pens, and chalk, and smoke signals. best pre-empt telepathy as well. we should only be permitted to communicate on eve-voice and in game channels."
"it should be, if the devs can do it in the videos they can do it in the game. the grid would be sort of like a chess board. support, snipers and long range hitting boats in the back while fast close range in the front. while clicking on that grid button, it should have an option to designate coordinates to each member and squadron.ex: squadron one (frigs) to point a-15, altitude 6 next squadron with tacklers and hacs move to point c-47 altitiude 9 and so on. once everyone is on their points, the fleet captain can hit an \"alight fleet to\" button and set it on a point in space."
"excellent idea. i'd love to see such a system, which would enable more tactical gameplay, and more cohesion, which means wargamers can get more involved!great!"
"formation warping is on the cards. just needs some time and attention, methinks."
"i like this idea a lot. it would add a lot more complexity to fleet battles"
"needs boost."
"boost and fuel bay."
"station hugging: 1 min aggro timer (you can't kill a station)gate hugging: 1 min aggro timer (you can't kill a gate)pos hugging: no timers (1. bubble the pos; 2. kill the pos; 3. kill whatever was in said pos; 4. ???; 5. profit!!)disagree."
"a lot of people (especially veteran players) often feel like many of the older game features are \"not quite right\", or have no idea why they're not ever so slightly different (not necessarily \"better\", just different).there is absolutely no good forum for this right now (and i don't mean \"forum\" as in these boards, but as in some communication medium), the existing forums are cluttered with ideas rather than questions, and any questions are simply dismissed as \"that's how things are, take it or leave it\" by the forum boards posters most of the time, drowned out.but we want to ask ccp questions, question that never received a proper answer (or if they ever received such an answer, it's so hard to find amongst the generic chatter you might as well not bother).of course, ccp can't be bothered to even find the questions that are worth answering, there's simply not enough developer time for that... let alone answer such questions.this is where the csm comes into the mix.right now, we have the assembly hall, which is the area where proposals are showcased, and people show support.the \"speakers corner\" is sadly an almost completely redundant section.so, why not use this existing subforum to do something about it and shoot two birds with a single stone ?we could repurpose \"jita park speakers corner\" to be the place where concerns are voiced and questions are asked, leave \"assembly hall\" for the proposals.you know, questions of the type \"what was ccp's intention with <feature> ?\", \"why does <feature> work like that and not <some other way> ?\" or \"why does <item class> cost <how much it does> and why isn't ccp doing anything about it?\"the csm could then select out of the jpsc subforum (on a weekly or a monthly basis) some of the yet-officially-unanswered questions they think deserve attention, and present a certain number of them to ccp on a regular basis (slightly rephrased, if needed).the questions posed and ccp's answers could then be collated into a weekly/monthly newspaper of sorts, with a decent archeive, available right here on the site, alongside the \"knowledge base\".examples of questions which might be asked :* why size-of-ship-dependant rigs (or stacks of rigs in larger ship rig slots) were not introduced from the start, and why they're not in the game nearly 2 years later ?* why rigs have so many advantages but next to no drawbacks (and why are there rigs with absolutely no drawbacks) ?* how much are t2 rigs supposed to cost ? if they're not costing as much as they're supposed to, why don't they increase drop rates ? if they're supposed to cost this much, why ?* why do t2 bss have lower base prices than the sum of base prices of components out of all t2 ships ?* what is the logic behind attribute respecialisation as planned to be implemented (as in, why not just give everybody 13 base in all attributes and do away with everything, since it has almost the same end-effect for long-term players) ?* how much are t3 ships supposed to cost, and why so much when their performance is \"meh\" (a.k.a. what's the point of t3 ships) ?* what was the logic behind alchemy current values ? when can we expect a massive shift in alchemy effectiveness ? can we expect it ? why ? also, what was the logic in the chosen materials, why tier 3 and not the junk tier 1 ones ?for starters, i would propose the following :* one month to gather some questions and select/reformulate the most interesting ones* between 5 to 10 questions (depending on expected answer complexity and current unanswered question load) are presented to ccp on a weekly basis* all answers and accompanying questions are published in a permanent section* questions may not be re-asked unless a recent related gameplay change was made or the phrasing of the issue is radically different* answer clarification questions however may be asked any time"
"so much bold.....i agree! a top ten questions to ask the lead game designers every month would be superb. live dev blogs and other nonsense that ccp tried before is fail.supporting akita t. oh my akita t is such a fast typist, fingers must be so sore, must go through keyboards like britney spears goes through rehab."
"*carefully approves*i think this idea improves player <-> csm <-> ccp communication, in my opinion there should be a lot more communication going on, both between the csm and ccp, so ccp is more aware of minor issues that bother players. in return the players get more answers to their questions which is a good thing. and the csm is a nice filter which prevents ccp from getting all the trolling and clutter we unfortunately see in these fora.with our current system, players can propose larger issues which they perceive as a problem, but the (often rather small) questions do not get raised and never reach ccp, with the players being left in the dark."
"and here i thought you wanted to go against what i had to say precisely ! i hope this gets on the next csm meeting agenda and is approved/implemented asap.p.s. thumbs up for the thread"
"i say yes to improved communication."
"yes!"
"aye"
"excellent idea!"
"all are good ideas"
"for someone calling efrim a emo.... you sure are emo.would you like a tissue with that?i'll sell you a tin foil hat for 1 billion isk... hurry... going fast!"
"try deccing more than one corp."
"interesting responses, and yes, i know alexander didn't command a fleet, so please cut the sarcasm, i wasn't being specific, i was mentioning what happens when a commander has been eliminated.just an idea i wished to relay."
"i think the idea has merit; though i don't think a game mechanic is needed because the reality of this idea already exists. when a leader dies; confusion and demoralization are possible. the degree of confusion and demoralization are determined by what kind of leader has died. if a leader is weak and has little impact on his/her pilots - then the death of that leader should have little effect on the fleet. if the leader is strong and is heavily relied upon by his/her pilots - the death of that leader will have a significant and real effect on the fleet without imposing extra handicaps. i say let the death of a leader have as much impact as it should by merit of the individual; let us not augment the importance of insignificant leaders through game mechanics."
"i read the first post... and ya pretty much that's how it works.so i was in tama... we had a fleet going obviously. we were kind of pirating. antipirates jumped on us. our fc had nice bonuses for us. he died. left system. we no longer had fc. primary died. secondary died. we then wondered... who we shooting? took time for the next person to step up.so ya... no changes necessary."
"this is not rome total war."
"he compelled darius iii to retreat, he didn't kill him. darius was assassinated in a conspiracy some time after the battle and dumped on the road.that aside, it's still a bad idea. killing the fc causes plenty of problems without need for any mechanical penalty. the bonuses don't really matter, and why should a well discipined, well led fleet be arbitrarily penalised by a mechanic?"
"how dare you people try to alienate and discriminate against us. we have the same rights and follow the same rules as the rest of you. just because we don't take internet spaceships as serious business doesn't mean we should be gaged and muted. we are a corporation that has no stipulations, no rules. our members can do whatever they wish. we do not discriminate against other players for their skill points, experience and activity. i do what i want when i want following the same rules as everyone else in the community. this witch hunt against us ends now.i call upon ccp to start banning all those that try to discriminate and bad mouth us just because we don't fit the mold of \"normal\" alliances. shame on all of you!"
"/signedyour posts may be bad, but if we banned you then we'd have to ban about half the inhabitants of highsec for the same reason."
"from what ive seen badmouthing other players seems to be the internets forte' so i cannot see what basis your being descriminating on? religion maybe? sexual orientation? or is because you have no control over your members and as you say they can do what they want when they want? not really a good example of how to behave in a community is it?so basically your upset because of people wanting to curb your antics and maybe turn caod into a useful forum tool rather than let it awash with pure gibberish, interesting.op not supported"
"i got an idea.. how about you both stfu!go back to coad and leave the csm out of your ****ing match."
"qft : take your little flame war elsewhere. now let me just get over to the other 2 or 3 threads started over this crap. -.-"
"it was the lead developer at ccp that was talking during the tournament, so i'm guessing it's reliable info.he was asked about ejecting and hinted that yes you would eliminate the skill loss but the other pilot would of course be able to take the ship if he could fly it. he stated that the skills lost would be rank 1 skills and would take 4 days or so to retrain.a four day wait in my opinion is not that big of a deal. if the skill loss is not wanted then you can always eject. if the other pilot can't fly the ship you may have a chance to get it back. i like the new risk element and we would still have options. there are so many billionaires out there now that money really doesn't matter. any pirates who are reading this and don't like it are crazy. you've wanted to steal ships for years, and now you can!not signed (please see signature)"
"losing 1 level of a rank 1 skill, get over it. that's a few days training at most. and if that's really so upsetting, just eject before you die. you'll be much more distracted by the huge amount of isk you just lost.not supported"
"not supported, but quoting an important point:"
"disagree.isk is almost no more an issue to many, a little more risk brings eve closer to its origins."
"this might surprise you, but isk is an issue to the majority of players.obviously i am not saying that everyone should be able to fly everything as they please, but i believe this is the wrong solution.if the problem is caused by a group of players having so much isk the loss of a t2 ship with fittings and rigs is insignificant, we need to look at *why* they are so rich and if there is a genuine issue there.the biggest concern i have is power creep in eve - until recently t2 fittings were the exception, not the norm. now they are cheap enough to almost obsolete t1 modules for established characters."
"disagree. i don't think eve needs another time sink after the learning skills. maybe at some point in the future."
"i don't really care about graphics, as long as they make killmails distinguish a bpc from bpo :)"
"you clearly have a wonderful understanding of computers and database systems design. i suggest you put in an application to ccp. this statement goes for everyone else making such suggestions too.[/sarcasm]"
"shouldn't the game go along with the description, and show them as contraband in the amarr empire and khanid kingdom? they're currently legal everywhere."
"forbidden doesnt imply illegal imo."
"ive got a copy of the amarr empress in a odd position with a minmatar male slave and a dog :)"
"fix'd."
"no, it would cripple my corps' business!"
"in the last week we have seen why this idea will not fly in the real world, when two satellites collided in leo.if we were to take kinetic impact seriously [i have commented along the same vine elsewhere] we would have to consider:- colliding with an asteroid- colliding with a stargate- colliding with a stationwhy would it work only when you decide to crash into something, right?with object <x> moving at speed <y> in --> direction and object <a> moving at speed <b> moving in <-- direction, you don't have to worry about shielding or amor. both turn into a cloud of debris on impact.if you brought real physics to eve, your hifalutin space contraption turns into a glass jar on impact. if you absolutely, positively need to blow it up on the cheap, mass times speed does the job -every- time.would you also keep track of how big the hold was and how full of ore or ammo it was? and what the density is?i'd like to see an iteron iii full of veldspar impact a megathron and the iteron driver gleefully declaring victory [choose the impact scenario you like best]. this forum would melt under the howls of indignation :).creative thinking, i like it a lot, it's just not practical.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"same here"
"thanks for the feedback. i've adjusted the skill to level 4 and added a secondary rank 2 skill to compensate. of course, it's the principle i'm really interested in - i'm just postulating as to how it might work if implemented in game."
"just wanted to pop in and say im actually stunned to see all the posts complaining about mission rewards, literally the most lucrative risk free profession in eve."
"yes and no. it's more for people who want to try out other facets of eve without paying the full subscription cost for another account. sure, a trial works, but you can only get so far with it."
"the way i see it, if you're producing t2 items, you should be inventing bpcs. owning a t2 bpo isolates you from a crucial part of mass production. deleting t2 bpos forces all producers to either buy their bpcs or invent them themselves in their own r&d department (requires longer assembly line = good).how to transition? reimburse t2 bpo owners with bunch of free bpc copies, one equivalent t1 bpo, and a bunch of datacores. they'll still have some advantage, but eventually will have to participate in invention like the rest of the population."
"i did explain it, quite well actually. your failure to understand most likely stems from a gross lack of exposure to game mechanics beyond \"drag ore to jetcan\" and \"click deliver to get what you built\". the funny thing about carebears is that they think only they do industry, as though it's somehow too difficult for others to handle. i mined a bunch of trit over the weekend and built a battleship from it, and now i plan to fly that battleship into battle. bruce didn't have industrial corps, we had corps who could do any number of things. issler never grasped that concept, that a true industrial only corp is really only half a corp because you can build your way to riches but not to success.listen it's pretty simple, issler was an embarrassment to bruce. i won't debate with you whether she did the things i said, there's no need to debate it... they happened and she was kicked out because of them. she can continue on leading her carebear army in sweet non competitive bliss. she can help to coddle members like yourself so that you'll never know the challenges eve provides. however if she makes suggestions on the csm which look to remove eve's challenges and make them easier for industrialists to achieve then i will object to them."
"whew! well, i kinda feel bad that all you have left are personal attacks (and no, you didn't explain at all why knowing particular individuals, regions and terms is necessary for complete \"beef\" enlightenment... but that's okay).who's your spy that's been telling you i \"only do industry\"!? ...and reading my mind!!?! ... and saying i'm snooty!!?!i think there are quite a few industrial corps that would argue with you about whether or not they've found \"success\"... and about whether or not industry is \"non competitive\".i don't think i ever denied any of the \"embarrassments\" you mentioned. i asked you to point out the mean posts you complained about, but i think that's it.i didn't know i was supposed to be getting the \"coddle\" treatment!!! you never mentioned that part! thanks for letting me know about this! i had no idea i was coddle-deficient! this is an outrageous outrage!!!! you can be certain i'll start demanding serious coddling immediately!!!but anyway, i'm sorry i egged you on.i was gonna stop once you said something like \"i don't need a good reason! eve is like a play set with a plastic slide... yadda yadda... so there!! neener neener!!!\"this last post is close enough.i mean, c'monnnnnn! these \"embarrassments\" are peanuts. they really take the cake. this is all bologna. you don't have a \"beef\" with issler at all.maybe a spaghetti-o's hamburger meatball... but not a 'holy cow!' \"beef\".(aww, poo! posting's making me hungry again!)if issler was the most destructive, malicious person ever to be a part of any of your alliances and tops your former-member \"beef\" list, you have unbelievably fantabulous screener people! i'll hire them for quite a lot to make sure applicants cut the mustard.for doing such an amazing job, i think i'd really want to cater to them and provide them with an absolutely embarrassing number of giant cheese platters to make sure they don't leave.this thread is in exactly the right place.bread crumbs have been dropped here and there in previous posts  this \"beef\" is really about issler being a csm.this is where i was trying to go with this, so thanks for getting us there finally.i think the brucey people are... concerned... that issler holds a three-year-old grudge about some things that are a little more significant than piddly little \"embarrassments\". and they're... concerned... she'll do everything in her power as csm to... settle this slightly heftier \"beef\".i may not understand mean-spirited tactics, but i think i do get this fear about making 0.0 more accessible.i used to live in a popular retirement location and this reminds me of the groups of retired people there who, after moving to the area, wanted to slam the door shut behind them. they would always fight proposals to build new retirement communities. major red box action!this sounds pretty similar. well, if you ever move to a retirement community, you'll already be have some experience and be ready to talk turkey!i can't speak for issler, but really, unless you're mean to llamas, i'm pretty sure you don't have to worry about her seeking \"revenge\" for an old \"beef\".i never said you had no right to \"object\" to anything, but i think it would be better to be more up front and sincere about concerns and to explain exactly why a proposal is lacking rather than slinging personal insults and just calling it a \"dumb\" idea that \"doesn't mesh\".oh yeah! you don't happen to know what day tada-o left... whoops!! i mean... was kicked out? i'm thinking that day should become an annual corp holiday... with lotsa ice cream!"
"edit: double post, cleared"
"whew! (i wanted to start my post with that since you always seem to do that and i thought it might help me understand your lack of understanding... it didn't)you can imagine whatever you want, you can try to justify it however you want, it won't change what happened. i've stated what my \"beefs\" are, both previous and current. i've explained why you fail to understand them and until you go out and try to take and hold space of your own you most likely won't understand them. what the heck though, i still have some room in this threadnaught, lets do it:red box - your enemy, somebody who is trying to kill you. the pointy end of the gun goes towards these people, just fyi.syndicate - npc 0.0 space, where there are no sentry guns and no concord. when living in this space you either hold your own or dock up and stay there forever. generally this has to do with the ever present \"red boxes\" who will try to shoot at you every chance they get.now the simple explanation is to call syndicate the \"schoolyard\" and red boxes \"the bully\". if the bully comes up to you in the schoolyard and says he will beat you up if you don't pay, and you do pay, what do you think he will do tomorrow? does the bully respect you or have any reason to think twice about doing it again? nope. so if you are with a group of people and they all start fighting the bully while you stand off to the side and dig through your wallet... well you just became the embarrassment. that's about as simply as i can explain it.i have no interest in shutting any doors, and it wouldn't be behind me if i did because i don't currently live in 0.0. what i am interested in is preserving the doors as they exist right now. that is making sure that if a corp/alliance wants to live in 0.0 or low sec that they will have to work for it. so that if i ever return i can expect the same challenges that previous pilots have faced and overcome. what you seem to miss is that anything that makes it easier for non-pvp players to access 0.0 will make it easier for all players to access 0.0.i can assure you that i have no fear of issler seeking anything, revenge or otherwise. i am simply voicing my concerns over some things she proposed at a csm meeting.check the corp history, i'm sure it will be on there. enjoy your celebration."
"you still have not made it clear whether this is related to csm or some events that happened quite some time ago (well before i started playing eve).if it's csm related, i remind you again that issler was voted a csm delegate by her constituents. from what i can tell in between all your personal attacks, perhaps you should be taking up your views with other csm delegates (there are 9 total). if it's the later... well, i'd have to say your posts are surprisingly lacking in qualitative content, and you seem to be attempting to make up for it in personal attacks. we would appreciate it if you refrained from this."
"i have nothing against you personally niskin. that said, here are some facts (this isn't another one of your storytime sessions).i found an interesting link as well.outside forum quoting friededit: link was broken, but it's the first result from googling \"friedrich psitalon\"here it is stated by fried that (after leaving bruce) he has a few plans, among which are \"begin targeting people we have grudges with or would be fun to pew pew: repo industries, the honda accord (issler's alliance), and privateers are all high on the list.\" this is mid 2008?then, we accept an ex-bruce pilot into our alliance for the tournament. funny thing to do if we hated bruce, wouldn't you say? this was just last month.said ex-bruce then failed at assassinating issler, and made a public mockery of foom who leaped to claim credit for said failure.alliance tournament thread of failthen, in an attempt to save face, foom declared war on the honda accord (or was this planned a year ago?)finally, we're delivered with this thread. started by an alt full of fail, which you are attempting to lend some credence to. if i were you, i would have just started a new thread... backing up a pathetic alt post like that might make people believe it was you.this is a very interesting thread to bring that up in. which meeting? why arn't you posting in that thread? you got off to an awfully funny start in here for someone who is interested in a csm meetings minutes."
"your not getting his point covert.one of the reasons you can't change your name has nothing to do with ccp tracking you, it has to do with other players tracking you.location agents become useless, as players could just pay to change their name, making them invisible.corp/alliance thieves become impossible to track.those are two very important reasons off the top of my head to never allow name changes, and why they will likely never implement name changes."
"pretty sure you can't rename pokemon after a trade. seemed relevant to me at the time."
"no, hire a courier, stop cutting professions out of eve.make one, or more contracts for the things you need to move, and they will likely be moved.believe it or not, a fair few people still make money off of couriers in high sec.to top that off, your removing the risk to your things by letting them instantly move, instead of exposing them to free space, where they can be suicide ganked, destroyed by a war target, or any other random mishap."
"what's with you people, \"lets make is game risk-free\"go play eq, wow or whatever, don't make a scene, just go.why would you play this game if you cannot accept the risk involved?go just go away, please."
"back to the top -- still awaiting a ccp/csm update"
"1st - don't bump topics (at least not obviously).2nd - if you read the minutes you would see that ccp is looking into it"
"sorry, i meant offlined. the context of my post should've shown this was a slip of the fingers (i was talking seconds before about hacking towers with their shields up), but hands up, i said the wrong thing.much like when i see the ishtar and ishkur on scan; 50/50 chance i'll mix the two up."
"coming soon"
"reading through that post; there's 2 ways of solving 'the problem';1) change projectiles alltogether2) accept the racial pros/cons but actually get the ships some decent bonuses.i very much like option #2, as i'm not really into a 'spreadsheetlike' solution like making projectiles fall inbetween lasers and hybrids. would make for a very dull world if every problem was tackled that way.funnily enough, as i see it, the main problem isn't \"what happens if we run into a mega/hype\" but rather \"what options do we have left against a geddon/abaddon\". it's lasers that need changing, they really need to lose their mad optimals or their high dps. once those are 'normalised' a bit then changing minnie ships bonuses to add a % falloff would make sense.but as said before, minnie lacks tank and dps and has to make up for that with... uhm... yeah. it can outrange a gallente but against amarr is has no other option than to use it's neuts, which ofcourse work but in this age of passive ehp tanking meaning the cap booster only needs to feed the guns that's not really working too well.perhaps the issue is with cap boosters making cap dependancy less of a problem and thus making capless dps less of a boon. dunno.- edit -on the muninn specifically; it's down on dps, range and locking speed compared to a zealot (if used in it's sniper role). but the thing is the extra high slot allows for a cloak and the small dronebay allows for ecm drones giving it some survivability. i rather like that."
"with the frigs and the cruisers, fall off can sort of still be used that way, (as long as your not fighting lasers) because your ability to move around and the generally reduced number of targets you face in one instance is far fewer.battleships is another kettle of fish. although boring, adding autocannon optimal range it's probably the most balanced way of dealing with large autocannons. and with an increased drone bay, alpha and tracking, the tempest restores some long lost versatility and performance in the weapons department.but do you really want to undo several years of amarr needs umph whining?ideally, you'd wanna get underneath the lasers, using your agility and improved tracking (add situational tracking distruptor) to your advantage, however, autocannons hit supprisingly poorly at optimal, and the tempest isn't quite agile enough nor tough enough to be roasted before getting there. in realistic situations, the damage output at fall off just doesn't make any sense and isn't ever optimal, and thats what i hope you change with those changes.the muninn has 2 spare high slots, it loses one for an extra low, you can still cloak. warrier ii drones are better than ec-300's and in either case the deimos can carry both sets, deal about the same dps with rails, (much less alpha though) with speed, range and tracking pretty much even. for a ship that can't do much else, swaping one of it's two spare high slot for a low is a fair solution"
"if you give large autos an optimal between blasters and pulses, then add tracking and a bigger dronebay and the already available signature advantage and 2 heavy neuts then you create a monster. i woulf fly tempests more often then but i feel it would be too much. i still think that the problem is amarr/lasers, trying to make the tempest workable against amarr bs by giving it brute force is, imo, the wrong way. on the muninn, yeah i failed on the extra slot but i'd rather add another midslot giving it more sniping versatility (sensor booster or tracking comp). adding it as a low slot would make it into a short range armoring tanking autocannon boat. thing is ofcourse that the armor resists for minnie t2 fail hard, it just doesn't work as an armor tanker... not as it should."
"guysplease stop with all the requests for change for minnie ships. the race is ruined. it has no flavor and it has no place in eve anymore. out tanked, outsped and out ganked by every other battleship, the tempest is simply not a viable pvp ship any more.other players can screech in disagreement but the reality is when an fc says he doesnot really like to see tempests in a fleet fight; you know its the end of the line.ccp know this. they have been told formally and informally and they have acknowledged the problem. they push off the rebalancing and with tech 3 inbound, just what is the likelihood of substantial change with all the other issues it will bring in rebalancing tech 3?nil. nada. zip. butkiss. zero. zilch. there is no possibility of a change for at least 12 months and even then, what will you get? this is the team that said alpha strike was bad and unfair and then introduced doomsdays! this was the team that said sniping was boring and not the way they wanted the game to go and introduce the ultimate in boredom, the rokh. this is the team that listened to the amarr whining and nerfed the vagabond into uselessness. now there is not one minnie ship that is capable of outtanking, outganking or outdps's its amarr counterpart, all other things being equal.the evidence is clear, the minnie race is being willfully singled out for nerfing into uselessness. there is no ignorance here. there is no desire to balance the game. it is a conscious act with prior consideration and thought. look at the willful, blissful way ccp ignored the minnie capital issues and push it off; 'we are going to look at minnie capitals sonn (tm).' yeah, right. in the fullness of time, in due course, after all the requisite procedures have been considred, after we have formed an interdepartmental committee to examine and review the basis for understanding the player groups concerns, after actively consulting with the csm and the player base, after scheduling in any system changes with future program development paths and storyline arc considerations. in other words; when we can be buggered looking at it sunshine.so adapt. train amarr and let the tempest die a graceful death. is it fair? no. is it reasonable? no. it is good for the game to destroy diversity? no.but ccp don't care. they just hit 50k online members and to be frank, they prefer to gain a noob against losing a vet. so, dry your eyes and harden up and fly amarr.you know it makes sense ......"
"43687.0"
"/signedfor pony!!!"
"i, for one, welcome my new and improved veldspar devouring overlord."
"lol, i read this and thought how cute. i dont see a reason to say no aslong as it is not combat operable."
"that would then be the only titan in high sec? (not up to speed with when they changed the building requirements etc).yeah i'll support that. and to people saying \"but that's favouritism!!\", yeah... so what?"
"wormholes into highsec will never be large enuf for caps to enter, at least thats what i have read"
"if ccp wont do it for you i shall take care of your ship while you go lobby in person"
"i approve"
"i approve"
"i, too..."
"i fully endorse this product and/or service."
"do it."
"/signed if only because i want to try to fly my mammoth into its naughty bit."
"i'll agree with the tourist attraction idea.although i can picture amarr quickly becoming the major trade hub in the game from this, going to have to re-plan all my routes to fly around it."
"this may not be the most pressing issue in eve history. but it's the little things that make a good game.i suopport this idea, mainly because i know chribba would never hurt anything else than huge lumps of veldspar with it"
"if anyone deserves a giant phallic monument in amarr its chribba."
"as long as ur not a git and use a ddd im fine with it"
"no, i'm sorry.favoritism and discrimination are the exact same things in my world, and i do not support either."
"supported just because its chribba"
"move the veldtar to amar !"
"oh man, come onit would be awesome"
"i like this. not many empire dwellers get to see these marvelous beasts"
"i like it! would draw more people into amarr, relieving pressure from jita, and would make more people want to head into 0.0 to see more of them!/signed"
"supported because it's chribba."
"mining titanz ftw"
"/signed"
"i want to give my support to the idea/discussion going on."
"i agree as eve needs more things for people to see when they start up."
"seems the missile damage formula is still in dispute and hasn't been spaded out. i'll reserve judgement until more details are out. the one i was working with made some pretty dire predictions. they should be better at something and that something should be a reason to use them.cald tank is in mids. buffer tank can be okay but they generally don't have the capacitor to do anything like a dual mar. it's not a jaw dropping tank either, and you sacrifice webbers or scrams as well as electronic warfare.it does have the advantage of opening up low slots for damage and tracking modules. but there are no tracking modules for missiles.also cruise missiles will still do neglible damage against an interceptor. look at the formula and put in some figures, it won't round to one, i was getting dps figures to the tune of 6.48847e-4. even though they always hit, they effectively do no damage.i think you'll be hard pressed to find ships with missile explosion velocity bonuses. tracking bonuses on the other hand...it doesn't reduce my damage taken to zero because i have to keep up my traversal which isn't always easy, and if i make one mistake the turret is calculated as if it's doing full damage even with a mwd running.and in those situations where turrets will never hit, you'll always hit for neglible damage anyway. at with turrets there is an incredibly remote change of hitting for good damage. also you'll likely be in an armor tanked ship with things like stasis webifiers or tracking computers.would you put a bunch of sp into missile launcher spec?"
"at this point you should re-read everything you wrote.your writing reflects your low unterstanding of ingame-mechanics and experience.i, for one, fly all races."
"an adjustment towards this would be most welcome."
"if the forum search software worked decently, unlike currently, imagine how much less useless and repetitive threads there would be!detailed search would mean people could chose to search in the csm minutes and get the answers the devs already gave right away too instead of relying on hearsay."
"your assuming that the average user will bother to even use it.i've seen countless threads repeated because the damn idiot didn't look at the one that's already started on the same page.that's not including the morons who post once (one hit wonders if you want to call them that)... but never bother to come back.they should be banned....and never allowed to return imho.there are a lot of things need fixing in the forums..."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"there have been a couple of times that ive posted and couldnt find the damn thread to see what happened afterward. part of it was posting while half asleep and such, but still.edit: i actually be happy if you could search for any thread you have personally posted in.. or the ability to tag threads to a watch list or some such."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"cleaned.please do not post replies that break the forum lay out."
"drake while i agree with you about most things, i disagree with you here.if they had an actual search feature for boards worth a damn, they could check to see if a thread, or a dozen has been made about it.then if they posted, you'd have a good reason to ban them. xd"
"you give the human race too much credit.: o )but alright... you win this one.: o p"
"with the whole bob deal aside -- its a broken mechanic that needs fixing. 1000's of peoples in an organization shouldnt be dissolved with the dissolved with the posh of a button."
"i completely agree. this sort of thing is what the csm is suppose to be all about. eve's entire \"end game\" (as defined by ccp) has been ignored for far too long. alliance mechanics, pos warfar, titans... all this and much more needs to be addressed. i am pleased to see that many pf the csm delegates have this at the top of their agendas. remember, don't let some scandal or bug uncovered by ccp distract you from your cause."
"you want protected, you gotta pony up the dough.it is a mmo, you know with the focus on the second m part. band together or suffer the probability of being attacked eventually and take the necessary steps to mitigate possible damage.this coming from someone who has lost quite a bit of isk during war declarations in my earlier years."
"or make caod a non access forum where isd or some other ccp controlled news team report on events they attend and/or diplomats and snr corp directors/alliance leaders issue statements to,give summat for the diplomats to do and tbh will make caod easier to read as we the players cannot be responsible enough it keep it on topic without the constant trolling and out of control posts"
"someone petition them for impersonating the real g00dfellas alliance name. this will at least cost dastommy 1 billion hopefully."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"nerfing a ship just so you can rely on a canflip is not a good method of game balance. if anything, wardec's should be easier.back to point, if someone wants to spend a pile of cash on a ship just so they can dump directly into cargo, then its time for you to adapt from your can flipping ways. the old story of adapt or die springs to mind......"
"could also be done by simply being fast enough to stack/sort the ore in their can (or to snatch it all into your can), haven't tested that lately though been on hiatus..."
"they can still drop ore into the hangars, and the pilot always has access to the hangars of their ship."
"umm hauler on station... pulling a jetcan at a time back to station while the miner cycle for the next load (in cargo rigged hulks with upgrades in the low they can handle the time for the itty v or transport to come back)easy enough to unachor and move the can with a tractor as needed...this sounds like someone upset that the easy prey has disappeared. but keep looking not everyone has an orca on hand."
"bolded: what do you think bringing other people is? an orca can easily be classified as security against can flippers.they are lowering the rewards... how many people have to be in hulks in the gang to make up for losing a hulk to add an orca?i find it vastly humorous that a can flipper is trying to argue risk vs reward when they tend to target newbs for the easy loot and lulz."
"enough that's it's worth encouraging group behavior."
"i see you missed out the \"i have no problems with things being more difficult or challenging\", i do have problems with things being impossible. apart from that an orca gives mining bonuses in case you haven't realised, so the \"but they need an extra pilot for it\" doesn't exactly hold any ground especially as they don't really need another hauler.also; you're mistaken on the 'targeting newbs' part, it shows that you don't really understand the whole concept.to the other poster going \"but they can tractor cans\", tractoring cans still gives an opportunity, it's not completely safe and the orca pilot has to be alert and not afk. as it is now the orca doesn't even need to be actively used as the whole thing is done by the miners."
"if my math is correct, they would need to have a gang of over 25 people in hulks in order for the command bonus's to become more profitable for that one orca pilot to not have brought a hulk as well...so either they are sacrificing mining yield for added security or you are targeting large corp operations that would swarm you with drones the second you started flashing.so, i'll give you the benefit of the doubt, and not think you a complete moron, by assuming that you are targeting ops with 3-5 pilots. with that assumption, and your reasoning that i bolded in my previous post: your argument is moot, and your suggestion defunct.targeting anyone mining is lowering your risk. otherwise, why would anyone be a can flipper? the ore you would be able to carry in one hauler load is about enough to pay for the hauler, and a second hauler to replace it (assuming you use cargo expanders) unless you are one of the fabled 0.0 can flippers, but then you would be complaining about the rorq instead."
"your'e forgetting one thing; the hauler that's normally needed to move the ore, he's replaced by the orca so you actually gain mining yield due to the fleet bonuses. unless ofcourse you do the \"lets all mine 20 cans full of ore and when we're done we'll all grab haulers and go pick it up\". but that would be stupid and luckily/sadly i don't see people that stupid too much.you're also mistaken in the fact that i actually care about the ore, or some hauler or silly retriever dropping cargo expander 2's."
"ok, so you are just interested in easy kills for your killboard... too bad the \"carebears\" are now starting to outsmart you, lol (and the bug, if your interest really is can switching)and actually, with a 3-5 man op, why sac a pilot to a hauler when a properly rigged hulk can warp back to station to drop their own loads without losing nearly as much mining yield? that hauler would only \"save\" one mining cycle per ~10 min, while losing that pilot's mining cycles for the entire timeregardless, can flipping in highsec is the most lol profession in the game... you would make better isk salvaging belt wrecks, but you aren't interested in the isk..."
"yesterday well over 5 billion was destroyed due to our actions (could be more, it's a guesstimate as we stopped using a kb), and wouldn't i have had the \"you're not within 1500m of the wreck\" bug we'd have looted at least 2 bil more than the 150ish mil we did.is that a whole lot? no but we're having fun doing it and we gain cash in the process, i'd rather have that than optimise my income while being bored to a point my braincells start to melt.also, you're not debating the issue but are just voicing your dislike/lack of knowledge on my chosen passtime. my statement still stands; being able to mine directly into an afk orca with a huge cargohold and which gives bonuses is silly. i don't mind the cargohold or the bonuses, i midn the 100% safety issue.in the mean time your replying (or trolling, not sure on it) keeps this thread nicely bumped, so thanks i guess."
"actually the break even/gain is 5 hulks + 1 orca vs 6 hulks with the orca bonuses using the cycle time reduction gang link.a common fit for a high security orca is lse iis in all the mids for a large buffer tank; expanded cargohold iis in the lows; ganglink, tractor, salvager in the highs for cleaning up rat kills from the drones.with t1 rigs it comes out to about 120k m3 cargo capacity. which for the hulks is only around 5-6 cycles for the fleet... (figure a yield of around 4.5k * 5 = 22.5k m3 per cycle; so about 5 cycles before the orca has to dock. one reason many use the corp hangar as a gsc with 2 haulers to take turns emptying it allowing the orca to stay out there with boosts)"
"it's staying bumped, but it has 0 thumbs-up supports so far out of 46 replies. at this rate it might soon match the \"pay for skill gain\" thread for reply-to-support ratio. activity does not equal progress."
"reminds me of the whines about nerfing secure containers... yes there were whinges about gsc's being unhackable and making mining too safe with miners using them as transfer canisters...net result there was nothing, just database load issues resulted in them being removed over time and from higher security space.now it's the piwhat whines about the orca in high security...adapt, don't whine..."
"this topic has no porpose, go 2 low sec and go after people that can defend themselves instead of moaning about how you cant kill empire miners with cheap tricks."
"i figured it out... he got pwn3d by an orca... and now hes whining over epic failness.that's why hes posting this stupid thread."
"or goaded the wrong hulk/orca team into a can flip.gist tank hulk and drone spec pilot ftw"
"an orca gives a total bonus of 55.14% to a miners per minute yield.with your maths, yield of 25 hulks + orca = yield of 38.785 hulks without orca.so already in a group of 3, its worth to switch one hulk for an orca. (2 hulks+orca = 3.1 hulks)"
"without getting too much further into this, the hulk is actually not dropping the ore directly into the orca's cargohold, the ore is sent to the corporate hangar which has a fixed size of 40km3. so, you won't be afk-orcaing for too long.huge is as huge does. the corporate hangar inclusive, total cargo capacity [using expensive rigs] is going to be... 165km3-ish ore? it's a fun amount of ore, it's not going to buy the old lady a pair of new shoes and paying someone to make 60 jumps up and down to go and collect them.it's a fun boat, an orca, it's not the holy grail either, buddy.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"wouldn't be the first... hell the eve uni had a pilot get 2 kills in their orca. so there are some out there that will eat the unwary for lunch."
"you're thinking about it the wrong way.an orca is a secure canister with an engine and tractor beams. (what ccp wanted)thus:an orca is a tractor-enhanced ship with a corp hangar array. (ccp's implementation)"
"posting in a \"i have no ideas and can't hang in low sec or 0.0\" thread."
"npc corp = no corp hangar = almost useless orcai doubt that, as a corpmate without roles was happy when he received them saying \"now i can access my orca hangars\""
"the corp hangar and ship maintenance bay do work in npc corps and for those without roles. you are told access denied, but have full access anyway to the ship's corporate hangars. same with any ship using a corporate hangar, the pilot always has full access to any part of the ship.a npc corporation member can drop into the corp hangar even though there are no roles (they get the message about you can not recover these items if you continue... )"
"you can also fleet with an orca and you can access the hangars even if you aren't in the same corp, as long as they set up the permissions correctly. we do this alot with some associates.as for the op: if you don't like folks mining into their orcas, be all means start shooting at them. blowing up the orca will certainly solve your perceived problem. of course if you do that enough everyone will just start mining in hulks again - but who doesn't want to mount strip miners on a mammoth? i mean really?"
"i would like to see a compelling reason to sacrifice tank for more gank on a blaster boat and to use neutrons and some more in optimal and tracking so that they're more effective once they're in range. only working at extremely short ranges is supposed to be the downside of using blasters. with the exception of large blasters it's pretty unlikely you'll be within optimal, though.i don't terribly mind the idea of sacrificing a lot of tank to gain enormous damage output that will beat another more balanced ship one on one, and be easily taken out if it can't get in range or is up against multiple ships. i think that'd be very gallente-like. right now it seems it's hard to beat a geddon bs-to-bs regardless of what you are in."
"signed,."
"yep. never understood why the info page on blasters was along the lines of how amazingly powerful they are supposed to be. they seem useless to me."
"there is a problem with blasters. not as big as some people make it out to be, but there is still a significant problem.ccp should look into this."
"although this solution doesn't address some of the more problematic issues regarding sovereignty it's still pretty sensible. just this alone won't solve the problems however. sov still needs to mean something beyond fuel bonuses and pos still need to be extracted from the mechanic as painlessly as possible.c."
"lets look at this from the supply and demand prospective. if you reduce the amount of minerals flowing into the economy from mission runners, it reduces the total supply. that reduction will not increase the amount of minerals produced by miners... effect: prices of everything goes up, while income stays roughly the same. end result: relatively, everything on the market becomes too expensive to use except in the safest of conditions (which don't exist in this game) people find it much more difficult to progress in the game, and leave... causing less total minerals to enter the system, repeat ad nausium... server gets shut down...so sure, i'll support your idea to destroy the game... thanks for playing."
"partly support if mining were made tolerable and not an afk job.reprocessing/refining as jobs no and i can't stress this enough."
"why? there is no concord out there and since you don't take hits for killing other players why should you get a sec hit, positive, for killing npcs? also as this is not empire space why do you get a bounty? now we are getting bs in low sec there will be the good bounties and sec hits here in empire space!"
"fail"
"troll much?"
"@ op - why the hell would you have a problem with that to begin with?"
"not supported because it's dumb."
"not supported.just because there's no law official law doesn't mean they shouldn't get bounties from concord for someone on the wanted list. i'm sure concord will still mail them a check."
"so... wait... since when is getting the rl cellphone numbers of corpmembers and allies \"a grey area tactic\" ?or since when is calling upon your in-game allies using oog contact means in any way weird ? ok, granted, it's pathetic to wake up or disturb people at their jobs just so you would not lose some bits and pixels in an internet spaceships game, but that is certainly not an issue ccp has any say about, nor should they.op has no issue, makes an issue out of nothing, and does it so in a pathetic way.thumbs down."
"alliance bull****. write a petition, no one cares."
"we pvp with them pretty much every day, whenever there is an opportunity we use them, putting them at risk, hotdropping gangs, ganking carebears & ratters, etc, and despite how often we field them, we only lose on average one blackops battleship every 2 months (lost one in august 08, october 08, december 08, february 09). that was until last week when we lost 2 in one week :( which puts us at 5 lost so far.so we've lost 5 blackops total in the 6 months - 1 year that our members have been actively pvping with them. we've lost 2.5 bil in bo hulls, though during that time we've gotten hundreds of kills & collected tens of billions of isk worth of loot from carebear/missioners wrecks so we're still firmly in the black isk wise. losing a bos sucks sure, but it's nothing compared to replacing dreads (which we have also lost 5) lost to lame old pos warfare, which is what we did before blackops."
"sure... we should just completely remove the idea of a fort from the pos? so all the shield is, is a box? come on attacking isn't meant to be balanced, when you attack a fort you expect to lose more men than you kill because.... they have a walli extremely disagree"
"the issue isn't starbase tactics, the problem is in sov mechanics."
"you can also bubble and kill people at station and gates. yet we still have 1 min aggro timer. are you saying we don't need it there either?"
"++++1again whats good for the goose is good for the gander.should be applied to pos shield just like stations and gates"
"[sarcasm]i agree with this thread. in fact, in real life, a person in a bunker can just take their gun and shoot out the small gunholes on the bunker with very little if any chance of getting shot back. we should nerf rl bunkers immediately![/sarcasm]really, the defenders should have this kind of advantage. i don't think this tactic is the problem, but rather the whole pos mechanics tied to sovereignty issue. ccp has said that they're looking at this issue under a microscope, and change will come."
"it's quite different. you can't pop the whole station with people in it, so station access needs to be balanced (people getting out, shooting and redocking when in hull: there is nothing you can do to finish them!! so timer is needed). but you can pop the whole pos with everything in it, so defenders should have some kind of advantage (you are attacking a fortress, and a destructible one!)..."
"i agree with most if not all statements - better communication between the community and ccp, perhaps preferred through the csm shouldn't do anything but help people."
"how do you make the thumbs up icon?edit: found it."
"yesand please lets not do it as a live dev blog, i hate these things."
"sounds good to me. this is one of the reasons why i set the csm chat channel up, although people don't seem to visit it much. i'm all for tying this into a more direct channel to ccp.i also support redesigning the jita park forum, as it's often neglected and hardly used for much. we'll see what ccp thinks about this (as they will probably get some tough questions), but i support the idea."
"ok"
"."
"have to support this.. dont hate the mission itself, just the fact that i get it more than all of the other storylines i've done.. combined."
"i had a little discussion lately as we had a planned corp mining op to increase funds. the corp tax was set to 100% and people accept the tax then but are not really happy about it sometimes (at least those who don't love and want to help their corp). they said that they need to make iskies too to buy new ships for pvp, what is also understandable.well, most corps are based somewhere, some in empire, some in lowsec and then those in 0.0.to make it short, there should be an ability to limit taxes to different regions or constellations.maybe also with different tax-rates with the normal \"general\" tax only applying to empire... or worm-space...so that the combat forces still can get an income if they secured a system far away (just as one example, maybe you find another one for yourself). it can also limit the efficiency of possible ninja-ratters when you're in a 0.0 corp.post your thoughts :)(i don't know if this already has been suggested, so shoot me if it has.)"
"if you need to set 100% corp tax to encourage people to take part in planned corp activities then you have a corp problem, not sure this should be solved by some ingame mechanic. having said that i understand that with a larger number of members it gets difficult to make sure everyone does his share.wouldn't it be easier to have the few people that are exempt from that corp activity apply for a 'tax refund' for that period of time? that way they'll actively have to approach a director/ceo and thus having to account for their absense."
"you seriously need to resign or figure out something else man.a 100% corp tax rate is just flat stupid.we're doing fine with 10% and the bloody wallet is richer than i am."
"i am proud to be in a corp with a 0% tax rate. with that said, i don't see any reason why more flexible tax options would be a bad thing for corps that would use them. giving a thumbs-up for \"why not?\""
"a more granular tax system would be niceit deserves more discussion at the minimum."
"i would support a more granular tax system, for sure.on the topic of the op, i'd quit any corporation that bumped it's tax rate up above 25% - if you need to tax your members that heavily to make money, you need to re-think your operations in terms of profit and loss."
"a more granular tax system would be interesting; not just by region / constellation, but also for:1) rat / mission rewards (i.e., 10% on rat bounties, 0% on mission reward)2) roles (new members could be taxed at 25% extra)3) security status (pirate corps could penalize those with high security)4) standings (lower taxes for those with higher standings towards a faction)bonus points for being able to enter formulas of some kind. a flat tax system is simple and easy, and i bet that a lot of corporations would just stick to that, but having these options would be a lot of fun."
"to clear the 100% tax discussion, it was only set for the limited time of the op and not full time. normal is 10%. the op was announced several days before.and sorry if i didn#t wrote it clear, english isn't my natural language."
"perfect, ccp has lumped together every 15 minutes the rat bounties to reduce lag and this idea will add four more check for each rat killed. as a theoretical idea it is interesting, implementing it will be a killer."
"kick those people from your corp.mine is a very small one, but everyone donates when we have a corp project.no need to add more crap for the servers to do every single time an npc is killed."
"oh, ofc i support my own suggestion :)"
"this.i'm supporting it because i want something shiny with a countdown timer for production and skill training. ccp might have plans to build this into the interface, it might look as good as the corporate interface...give us something cool to look at while we're managing our industrial activities.why is this not a part of the interface yet? [i have a good idea why, don't point it out]extra credit if ccp allows capsuleers to give their real-world coordinates [if they so choose], so corporate members may be displayed on a rotating globe, and a real-world progress of the terminator as the sun rises and sets over the world. a great visual tool with smart functionality.make it look as good as the spectacular in-game art. something fit for the age it's supposed to be used in.i'm getting all giddy just thinking about it.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"awesome - supported."
"not supported... ical suites me just fine...and i can post it on the web as i feel the need tooif ccp want's to give it to us.. then they will give it to us.right now its just a luxury that only a few select groups will even use... let alone acknowledge.good idea... but just not a high priority."
"well, i'm supporting this just in case. this falls under the \"why the hell didn't i think of that...\" category."
"emo != emotionsplease stay out of the topic if you have nothing to say about the topic."
"pay me 1 billion isk and i'll gladly comply."
"i'm pretty confident in ccp that plex/timecards will always be the only items that can be legally bought and sold using either rl currency or isk."
"ah so someone does realize penalizing the npc corps would result in legions of small 1-5 man corporations to wardec and whinge about."
"this is the problem with dealing with the t2 bpos. if t2 bpos are nerfed by flooding the market it kills all the professions based around invention. if they are deleted or changed to bpcs, the holders will complain and nobody else will notice anything as invention sets the market prices.if t2 bpos really are a problem, making more bpos seems a better solution. but after reading your post, i'm thinking that making more bpos might cause more problems than it solves.as to your points:1 - my plan was that ccp releases bpos until invention stops happening. if something causes invention to start back up, release more bpos. so invention only really happens after ccp releases some new t2 items into eve, with small spurts of invention as demand for an item goes up.2 - my assumption here was that someone wanting to buy the bpo would save up. each time the auction comes round the current holders have to buy it, meaning their profit margins put an upper cap on their bid. but the person without the bpo will eventually get enough isk to be able to outbid them.this assumption is very questionable, especially if the people saving up can't predict which bpos will become available in advance.3 - i did not know this. the higher skills could be worked with, but the higher copy time really screws over my idea.so my idea is pretty much killed."
"and what good will come of destroying their items ?they will complain loudly as ccp has just destroyed items in their hanger. but nobody else will see any change beyond their complaints as invention sets the market rate."
"i'm sorry for saying 'whew' so much, but it's all i can think of after these quote-a-rama posts where my points and questions are completely dodged (because you have no answer), you insist on concentrating on ridiculous things (like one word in an enormous quote) and have little more than personal insults to throw around.i'm sorry for having such a salad bar of issues at once in previous posts, obviously i'll need to go over one thing at a time to try and prevent going off in such crazy, irrelevant, directions.alright, i said we could drop this but you insisted on bringing it up again... i'll ask a third time:are you ready? pleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeease pay attention (and take it easy with the quotes):------------------------------------------------------------------i did not ask you to define those things, i thought in my last post (the one that was completely re-quoted) i made it pretty clear i already know what those things are!! sheesh! i was just teasing before! (heehee, sorry about that - thanks for the condescending definitions though, they were snootyriffic!)i asked, 3 times now, why knowing about those things is necessary to understand this little \"beef\"!!!!whew!!!i predict (again) more over-the-top quoting, plenty of personal attacks, and no answer."
"beyond the accusation that issler was an embarrassment to bruce, which is more of a historical fact than an attack, i haven't made any personal attacks. i have raised my concern about issler's input to the csm and explained my reasons, none of which included personal attacks. i haven't taken it up with any other csm's because i'm not here to get her booted, i'm here addressing a concern i had when i saw the meeting minutes.i chose this thread to post in because of a comment she made here which tied in with my concern. check my first post again to see what i'm talking about. every post i've made since the original has been in direct response to you or one of your corp mates. you keep asking questions and i keep answering them. if you want the thread to die you could stop giving me reasons to respond."
"first let me say that anything linked from **********.com is at risk of being fake, however i will confirm that portion. when we left bruce tada-o was on our list of people to shoot at for revenge. not at the top or anything but certainly on the list for the reasons i've detailed throughout this whole thread.i think you are overestimating how that thread makes tada-o look and underestimating how it makes foom look. we succeeded in getting a spy onto your team (regardless of how easy it was) and ensured that our target went down. it wasn't the perfect execution of the plan but it wasn't a failure. it's also not our fault that your opponents failed to defeat you after our intervention.i am not attempting to lend credence to anything. once again i refer you to my first post. i raised an issue and tied it in with one of issler's posts in this thread. i have answered many questions in this thread but i'm still missing answers to my questions. what is it that carebears need? what justification is there for giving them easier access to 0.0? i'm interested in hearing those answers and justifications."
"i have dodged nothing, your failure to understand the answers is not my fault. i will however attempt to answer more clearly since that seems to be necessary in this case.it's called context, which means \"the set of circumstances or facts that surround a particular event, situation, etc.\". exchanging money for services in itself is not an embarrassing act, however when placed in context it certainly can be. i've explained the context but you still don't seem to understand. as best i can tell it's just something that you would have to experience to truly understand the context."
"if you had spent any time reading csm minutes, in particular the iceland meeting you'd see i haven't pushed for changes that get \"carebears\" in 0.0. there was a long discussion in iceland about improving 0.0. ccp suggested that new mechanisms could bring in \"carebears\" into the badlands and i participated in the brainstorming that resulted.you wanted to know what i bring to the csm. i am not in the csm trying to drive a bunch of immediate changes in eve. realities of software engineering and complexities of game balance prevent that from even being possible. i am in the csm with a focus on oversight and input for ccp to consider in their long term direction for eve.if you aren't happy with my csm participation you should run yourself.mostly i think this is about a couple of disfunctional foom leaders unhappy that tada o continues to provide a place where 120 plus members choose to make their home as we approach our 3rd year in eve. because every day those members stay is another day complaints about me and my ideas about how to make a healthy and fun corporation are proven wrong.eve is meant to be fun. fun is very subjective. beep is about one way to have fun in eve. foom seems to be about another way. beep doesn't feel the need to interfere with other folks having fun unless it is directly affecting us. foom has adopted the immature school yard bully model of fun. that strikes me as getting old quickly and one that doesn't leave one with a lot of friends in the end. that model of fun is a very strange one for a school teacher to have adopted. hope freed's students are provided a better model of citizenship and social interaction.i ran for a csm position when a number of beep members encouraged me to run. i tried during the election to make my views in eve known even to the point of posting my ideas on a single new topic daily. folks had a pretty good idea of what i was about when they chose to vote for me. in the end enough of folks that did vote saw something in my position about life in the 'verse that i was given this opportunity. if someone wasn't happy with that result the right way to change it is not to slam me in the forums, to war dec my alliance or interfere with our pvp tourny team, it is to run in the next election, make a compelling case for your views and win a seat at the csm table.i'll be looking forward to your anouncement as a candidate in the elections of csm iii niskin. issler"
"edit: issler makes a better point than i did, removed to avoid confusing niskin."
"no, not really. if ccp charged a hefty fee for name changes and they were limited to 1 every two years or something like that, the option would cease to be of any practical use to scammers but would still allow players to correct a foolish decision during the character creation process."
"how so, i could, on my alt, rip off your corp, for everything its worth, say, 90billion, then, the next day, change my name, via this, and you would never, ever find the alt again, assuming i waited till roles were up and i was out of corp.i never said scammers, i said thieves.your beating a dead horse, your name carries more than just letters in this game, it carries everything you or the owner before you did. when you take that alt on as your own, you take his history on with you.people before you have asked for name changes, your not the first, your just another guy who doesn't get why its not ok to just change your name. it has wider social implications than your seeing."
"fair enough, but every character in eve is tracked by the database with a unique id, not by character name. that's basic programming and i can't imagine that eve doesn't do that same thing. another option would be that when a character name change occurs, a record of the change is automatically appended to a read-only area here on the forums. that would provide the entire community with a permanent record of the change and pretty much negate the example you provided above.so all that is needed is a method where ids can be looked up to find all aliases that character has ever went by. very simple to incorporate that into the existing api.the issues you raise are good ones and i'm not saying those shouldn't be carefully considered by ccp before allowing name changes, however, none of them is an insurmountable programming challenge -- in fact it's a fairly straightforward issue to overcome."
"won't work...unless you got a curiour in your corp... or alliance.the damned collateral fees are insane..and the reward is worthless.<--- freighter pilot who does curiour contracts from time to time.not to mention a good deal of them are scams."
"the op is 110% correct. the problem is that there are a large number of people who do want to dumb eve down. dumb it down to the point where it is nothing but completely mindless pew-pew without any real meaning or any end. dumb it down until it is nothing more than team fortress 2 in space.that's a sentiment, i'm happy to observe, the devs do not seem to share. while combat will always remain central to life in eve, it's clear the developers have a more profound vision and are taking steps to deepen and broaden the game experience and enhance existing possibilities. surely you didn't think they put this much money and development time into ambulation just so people could walk around and... walk around some more? not, hardly! it seems obvious ambulation is intended to add just the type of flavor and diversity to the game that it now lacks. and that, it should be noted, will offer lots of possibilities for all players and corporation types.the eve devs have a vision. and it is not team fortress 2 in space."
"/signed."
"this thread is utter nonsense...and i love it. /signed"
"i fully support this. the real amarr emperor can't fly naked in amarr, he needs his ship."
"great idea"
"sorry, i do not like this concept. it is favouritism, regardless of how you see it."
"favouritsm? it's a game.supported. tourist attraction."
"tourist attraction for the win."
"supporting.ofcoarse with the limitation of no jumpbridging allowed."
"edwards ftwoh and hail chribba."
"supported"
"edwards <3 carebears"
"don't make him tattoo naughty bits for this"
"supported, nothing but lols can occur from this"
"supporting the veldatar, the 'how-the-hell-can-ccp-let-people-spend-90-billion-isk-to-get-in-game-monuments-waggon' and also the ability of chribba to use the ddd to remove any ore thieves he sees fit.edit - to be honest, it's already good for people to be able to go to amarr and see a dread without risking being blown up by it, it would be amazing to see the same thing with a titan. it would be like - wow, that's the ultimate achievement in game, and i could do that."
"this alone made me want to sign this.for pony!!"
"i love it how everyone signs without actually signing. lol/really signed"
"/signed"
"/signedi read through the majority of this thread, and i must say, such unanimity is rarely seen on these forums. majority does not imply correctness, but this thread seems to be damning evidence of the naglfar's needed buff."
"/signed"
"when shrike last lost a titan there were 29 dreadnoughts [url="
"we non-ironically asked naglfars specifically to do something on an op and everyone was amazed we actually had a naglfar! it was a russian though so it doesn't really count as an anomaly.i wouldn't even say 1/30 people fly the nag, discounting russians i'd say it was closer to 1/100."
"definately supported! this is way way more overdue than the ship fitting revamp!"
"although i support making disbanding an alliance harder, i do not think that all ceos should have to agree before an alliance is disbanded. there is a reason there is an executor corp.i do however think that it should be harder to disband an alliance than just pressing a button. the ceo of the executor corp should be the only person able to disband an alliance."
"1) this thread is not in caod2) the thread you linked? guess what, not caod3) my alts are megalapteryx didinus, american tourist, chinese tourist, haast eagle, joel polack. you see thats the difference between me and you, i am not hiding behind my alts."
"yes please!!!you people should stfu and gtfo.... go #### and #### somewhere else."
"totally agree, no one should be allowed on caod but me.okay fine, everyone who agrees with me can post on caod too but only with my express permission."
"add goons to the list and i am a happy bunny. as it is, i cannot post in caod, despite being the leader of an alliance, since i don't want to spam my executor corp w. alts - while alts created only to make problems and harass others can. that's so not logical in my world."
"supported because i really like the thumb's up .gif"
"add goons and i will give a thumbs up. even if they are not an alt corp the goons spew out more garbage then all the others on caod combined."
"i kinda like them also i really don't care if they're an alt corpgo petition something else seriously"
"i support this along with a general effort to exterminate alt caod posting corps. in exactly the same way ccp has moved to exterminate the hop in hop out alliances that only existed to make the cost of a war dec more expensive."
"i've been reporting all of gs's band of brothers posts as alt posts under these same rules - unless the internet can prove they're not an alt corp i would fully support this and a swoop on alt posts in general."
"this!also, supporting the original post."
"supported. as an ex-smashkill grunt, they were an embarassment even back then. more so than my pvp skills were, tbh."
"how dare you! band of brothers is a proud and active member of goonswarm and i for one will not stand for your petitions.oh wait petitions do nothing, carry on."
"sadly yorda is right, petitions for forum violations do absolutely f*cking nothing, i have been petitioning the internet for weeks now"
"suicide their orca or wardec them, as to use the corporation hanger they must be non-npc. that sort of loss, done a couple of times, and they'll be back to jetcans before you know it.the option is there, it's not 100% immunity, it's just not an option you're prepared to take."
"recently there was a thread that proposed the ability to 'free slaves' which got turned into a proposal suggesting the same thing.also posted was another thread suggesting the ability of enslaving say tourists or something (turn tourists into slaves).if players are given the ability to turn slaves into freed slaves, they should also be given the ability to turn say tourists into slaves - again in the name of role playing."
"yay slaves! can we turn the innocents into exotic dancers and maybe janitors and stuff too?"
"damsels into exotic dancers? slave traders into protein delicacies?"
"and both threads already mention turning free peoples into slaves."
"how about turning slaves into frozen food? makes about as much sense as the other on an item that has no real use."
"support- please try and make blasters useful on caldari ships too- autocannons could do with a look at to but they don't seem to have as much trouble as blawsters at least imo."
"bump. as it stands it is too hard and almost impossible to get a fight off a station (atleast empire). the risk vs reward for fighting at a station is not there. fight starts going wrong you deag' wait 30 seconds and redock, almost no risk unless you get primaried in which case you die and the rest of your fleet docks. if you choose to aggress at a station there should be longer penalties. it also offer clear advantages in most cases to an agressor. wt undocks party a shoots him and oh-shiv local spike. he deag's and by the time your fleet drop out of warp he has almost waited out his timer and docks. most of the stations are too hard to bump from and the second you try they just dock."
"i support a window feature. take the time to setup a proper trap lazy sods!"
"read my text.stop station camping"
"solution is simple: make all stations spit you out 5 km from dock range."
"moar tears!!!stop station camping and do what, camp a planet? not much of a chance in empire to fight any where but a station. if your really lucky a whole fleet comes after you and you can force them to fight on a gate. atleast there if they deag' you can have a dedicated tackler or 2 who can jump threw but you cant do that at a station."
"if all your going to do is station camp and then throw a ****y fit over people who don't undock.. then it is you who will be crying those tears.grow a freaking brain and use it before you start spouting off.at least at the gate its a game of chance and planning.i swear that's all i see these days... station campers who whine and complain and ####.what did you people expect? a buffet of kills and blood? cry some moar!"
"you folks seem to be laboring under the delusion that we like being shot at. of course if i undock and my whole screen goes red i'm going to redock. that's not playing games, that's called survival. it falls under the heading of \"i'm not a complete moron.\"you see, and i know this may come as a surprise to you, some of us don't play eve for the pvp. we could care less about your killboards or the size of your blob-fleet. we have better things to do than help you get your rocks off killing mining barges and industrial ships. my solution to station camping is fairly simple - it's called jump clones. if you're going to station camp, by the goddess, you're going to have to camp four or five of them."
"while i respect you don't play for the pvp, when someone declares war on you, you have pvp whether you like it or not. i don't play counterstrike to get shot at, but it happens from time to time.undocking into a heap of reds? if you're silly enough to undock a ship while there are a lot of war targets in system without having someone confirm your undock point is safe then you are silly (edit: and really, deserve to lose your ship).i support the idea of an increased redock timer. 30 seconds, then a minute and a half, etc etc. having people deaggress and then dock up when it suits them is ridiculous. it's almost as bad as someone deaggressing on a gate, jumping, then logging off while under the gatecloak to disappear 30 seconds later."
"honestly the point of station camping is not to get kills, it is to prevent the enemy from accomplishing anything and to lock up their assets in a station. station campers should not expect combat."
"remove local...problem solved..."
"no - they have pvp - albeit hopelessly boring, and i do hope they enjoy the view. worst case, i have two other character slots i can use. i'll just pause my training on the primary and play with one of them until the other side gets bored of staring at stations all day long.the idea to try and make people play eve the way you want to play is flawed - and frankly, bullyish. i'm not denying that you can declare war on anyone you like. but don't get whiny when they won't oblige you by coming out to let you bloody up their nose."
"oh, by all means avoid the fight if that's how you play the game. i certainly don't think highly of those sort of people, but respect that choice.what i think is unnacceptable is that people are able to undock without consequence on some stations. that's the issue - not people avoiding pvp. if you want to stay docked up or play a different character, that's your choice."
"lol."
"what are you doing showing the wt you have 50 people in system? 1. place a neutral (cloaked) at the station. 2. have people (fast lockers) on the other side of all the gates (or the most likely route he will be heading). 3. have the neutral tell you which direction (gate, station, belt, planet) the guy is heading when he undocks. 4. if he stays in system (and does not redock at another station) bring in the neutral probe guy. else have the neutral cloaker sit on him again.5. if he does jump out of system catch him at a gate and hold him till the rest show up.6. and always remember the neutral people do not talk in local.but then i could be wrong. never been in a gang of 50 before."
"the longer time should depend on whether you fire or get fired at. however i do agree in principle to longer redocking times.30 seconds is far too short. especially in small gang pvp where you can decide to stop firing for 30s because you realise you might not win the fight and redock. this is used to create startlingly risk-free pvp.edit: support in"
"supported if - they provide a feature for a pilot to look out the \"window\" and see who is camping the station so that they can prepare accordingly or decide to login to their alt and fight another day."
"this, tbh.not true. if you were to leave the system, chances are they'd come out to play. then you can get back in and gank some of them before they get safe again. mindlessly sitting in front of the station, and smacking them for not coming out to face your overwhelming force, isn't the smartest choice of the options you have open to you.or more likely it will mean they will not undock in the first place.either way, not supported because you didn't think this through before coming to the forums with it."
"doesn't work....all i need is a couple alts... and then i can freely move about under ncpc... and laugh while you hold my main hostage.... if you think that's my main that is.station camping is a waste of time...mining rock for 10 hour straight is more entertaining... [sarcasm]hell watching paint dry is more constructive.[sarcasm]"
"about the part about the targets not wanting to undock and fight because they may not be able to redock if they are losing is true. on another hand most of the fights that i have seen at a station are usually 2-3 ships undock as bait and the rest warp in from out of system and then dock if they are losing. atleast this way win or lose the winners have a chance to finish the job properly not just get one more of 8 ships.as for leaving the system and camping the gates and using alts to watch the station. been tried many times. people have such an intricate network of alts to ensure safety. and the few that don't just ctrl q when they see us in local and escape after 30 seconds if they have a lot of hp because the fleet is spread out and has to relocate for the kill.i just propose that if you agress on a gate or station that you cannot dock/jump for maybe one minute. or just make all the stations kick out stations so you are not in dock range just like a gate. sure they may not undock but its all the same when they just redock. as it stands at a station fight the risk vs reward is missing. risk 1 to 2 ships for the greater good of fleet. but i guess this issue is only pertaining to small fleets."
"oops sorry, fixed title. thought i'd bring it up again needs at least an extra 100 grid really. who's with me?and if the reason you never fixed the nighthawks powergrid was anything to do with the possibility of fitting some stupid passive tank and a full rack of assault launchers, despite needing another 300 grid or something for that, the well......should actually bother to balance passive shield tanking while you're at it. hint : change the attributes / penalties to shield power relays."
"i don't fly nighthawks, but i did spend time calculating good setups. what i found was that if you don't bother fitting gang mod, then everything fits ok - may need a couple power diags, but that's fine for a shield tanker. but there's no way to have a decent fit and 200 extra grid for gang modfitting cloak is probably much more useful than gang mod anyway."
"yes, you do need to sacrifice dps and tank for gang mods. the nighthawk can be used as either a super-drake or a good gang-booster.edit: not supported"
"word.--isaac"
"just as long as we remove bounties from lowsec because concord isn't there either."
"come up with an alternative for combat pilots to make money first. otherwise it does have some merit given ratting is so boring."
"interesting idea but unlikely to happen due to the whine factor. too many bears out in 0.0 rely on bounties for income rather than being paid by their corp for protecting miners from pc/npc pirates.you might as well say \"remove all belts and l4 missions\" from hisec. people whine too much when the nipple is removed.ps: the \"concord not in nullsec\" argument is invalid. a police force would pay a bounty for osama, for example, wherever he's assassinated.as an alternative, make the npc's drop dogtags that then have to be sold in concord stations in order to get the bounty [edit: and sec increase]?"
"very true, i must say, so... /support"
"this."
"ahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha"
"you disappoint me. and i voted for you, so you represent me. please rethink your approach."
"your posting is p. bad. and i keep running into it, so it bothers me. please rethink your approach."
"the devblog with the final(?) report about the pos exploit has raised several questions in my mind whether the logs as they currently work are enough to detect and track exploits.naturally i don't have any special insight on how the logs work, but i believe there has been some clues in this and other devblogs, as well as in other forum posts.judging from the number of \"i sold something to someone who had gotten some money from someone who had bought it for real money and now my wallet is deep in the red! whaaa! whaaa!\" posts the tracking of isk is very effective. it's a safe bet that all transfers of isk is logged and recorded.but isk is not the only thing that has value, goods also have value even if it is less liquid. a revealing quote in the devblog linked above is not counting contracts or direct trade why not? might it be that it isn't logged? that is a possible security hole right there.and while the volume of trade in different goods obviously is logged and recorded, are the actual transactions saved so you can track buyers and sellers afterwards?here are a number of different scenarios that i whipped up while writing this post. if the current logging doesn't allow these types of interchanges to be logged, recorded and tracked after they have occured, the logging must be improved!alice = filthy rmt sellerbrent = rmt buyercharlie = innocent third party.in all cases the objective of alice and brent is to transfer in-game value from alice to brent in exchange for real money transferred from brent to alice in the real world.1) alice buys random goods from charlie, uses in-station-trade to give it to brent in exchange for 0 isk.2) alice buys something for which there is no current buy-orders, places it on market for 1 isk. coordinates via msn/whatever so that brent immediately refreshes his market and buys it.3) brent sets up a scam-contract. alice knowingly accept it.4) alice buys random high-value goods from charlie, goes to a predetermined spot and jettisons it in a can. brent comes along and picks it up.5) alice buys random high-value goods and an itty v from charlie, meets brent out in space and allow brent to blow up the itty v. brent loots the wreck.6) as in 5 but it isn't brent that shoots the itty v, it is alice that aggs an npc. brent still loots her wreck."
"they do track direct trade and contracts, but it's not a simple task to get the information about what was traded/contracted into a readable format for such a large scale search. for small scale things or when they ar elooking for something specific, they can find it."
"needs more support. :)"
"if only there was a 'warp wing/squad to x km' option, where my wing/squad commander could gang warp me in to the right location.... owai...but in general, yes, i like the idea of some tactical formations (and ultimately tactical manoeuvers) having an advantage over a big static blob. the tools to do the tactical manoeuvers are already there, but don't have any benefit to doing them and are too fiddly in the heat of combat even if you wanted to look spiffy to the few opposition players with brackets on."
"spended to long time to lvl 5 black ops with 2ndary skills; but now i m really dissapointed about how useless and expensive they are. give them life so it worth to buy/fly/lose them.."
"i propose that any thread that gets put in the index here or the common ideas thread in features and ideas, is left unlocked so ppl can comment, rather than start another duplicate thread. currently most of the links in the index and common ideas are locked due to being over 90 days old.. either they need to be unlocked or someone needs to remove them from the index."
"the details might be problematic, but the principle is solid."
"i will support removal of all these dirt short missions as storyline missions.the term \"storyline\" actually indicates that there should be some kind of story to these missions, but in these single part missions there is not. i would expect (and wish for) all storyline missions to have two parts or more.as you only get one every 16'th regular mission you will not burn through the mission pool that fast.i am often quite puzzled why regular missions in eve are so similar and simple made (on level 3 and 4 agents) comparing to the variety you will encounter during cosmos and tutorial missions."
"my observation is that i get this mission as a result of doing a large percentage of r&d agent missions ( a similarly trivial mission to complete btw) and i have rarely gotten the \"materials for war\" story-line missions when my focus has been on combat-based missions."
"first, i do not mind that empire faction ships carry no bounty but tags instead. but, the faction losses for destroying empire faction ships are very inconsistent and often unreasonable compare to faction losses against pirate factions.some times you get no loss for destroying a particular empire faction ship and in other cases you get huge losses for destroying a single frigate.faction standings need a long needed overhaul, also to get rid of the \"black holes\"."
"hate to break it to you, but that would be all of them.considering the amount of 'petty jobs' that need doing and the clear shortage of manpower, it's obvious that they'll offer jobs to anyone. in terms of roleplay, there is no good reason i should be allowed docking rights on any minmatar station right now, yet i am. however only an idiot would offer a job to go and kill amarr if said person is in the amarr militia, has high standings with the amarr, and is flying an amarr ship, and expect them to accept it.so what we're really saying is that agents are idiots.i don't see why people are getting so focused on the 4 hour timer. that's not the actual problem; it's ending up with lots of missions you can't cancel for 4 hours or a standing hit. you can keep the timer, and improve the mission allocation system, without making it a 'zero risk isk machine'. people have already stated ways it might be done; just nobody is willing to listen; they'd rather fill in their own blanks."
"one thing that bothers me about the skill system is that there are skills that have little to no real effect, or that just seem to serve as time delays, while at the same time they should do something (or more), based on their description.for example, there is this nice corporation management skill called 'ethnic relations'. what it does is that it allows my corporations to have 20% members of other races than my own per level. that is nothing but a time delay. there is no advantage whatsoever from this. not really. yet, that is not the point now. obviously when i got this skill, i am more capable to deal with other races, right? shouldn't that have any secondary effects for me? like a small increase in standing with other factions, or a small modifier to how fast i gain standing with them?many of the social skills could also easily qualify for secondary qualities. when i got labor connections, why doesn't it save me at least a tiny bit of money when i install production jobs? after all, i got connections, right? why doesn't fast talk, diplomacy, negotiation or bureaucratic connections help with customs fines a bit?my thought is, that while such minute secondary effects would be meaningless for many, it would give a little bonus to those tho skill a wider spectrum. especially since the corporate, trade and social skills are neglected by so many players. i am not talking about 5-10% boni anyway. just a 0,5-1% boost here and there for training skills that most players don't ever train anyway.of course this could be applied to some other skills, too. giving a bonus to ship repair cost if the character has (racial) starship engineering. warping a tick closer to stargates on autopilot for every skill level in astrometrics. a tiny reduction in heat damage for overheating thrust systems for skill levels in rocket science.something that rewards diverse characters a bit more in a system currently over-focussed on specialization and limit exploitation."
"the problem is that things get diffuse and hard to balance that way, as well as making things hard for players to sort out, and it's not like the skill system is simple as-is. some of your ideas are interesting, but it feels like players will either regard it as trivia or as another year of skills they have to max out to make their ship work at its best. neither of those is really desirable."
"if the premise behind your complaint is that most skills are nothing but a time delay... then the same thing can be said for all skills.i do concur that there are some weak skills while others are stronger... but the whole skill system is based on a time delay."
"just think of some kind of reimbursement. imo it's just too broken to keep in game. let them keep it but have it expire so they can get as much use out of it as possible. give them a stack of 50 equivalent bpcs. give them raw isk. obviously you can't replace the infinite potential value of the bpo, but that's the inherent problem, isn't it?my main argument is that owning a t2 bpo is like holding a patent that never expires. if they decide not to sell it, the rest of the population will never match their profit margin. i have no problem with older players having an advantage, so long as it is not permanent.as far as the rest of the population ignoring their complaints, i could not agree more with your analysis. i'm sure most of the player base would be happy if an elite few, who have been grandfathered into the system, had their advantage taken away to make the game mechanics more fair and accessible to all subscribers."
"wow! the best part of that post is that you found dictionary.com!!! *claps happily*yup, i guess after quite a few 'whew's' and a lot of squirming, you do eventually seem to get around to answering things. though, you didn't answer why she would pay to move the freighter when the alliance was willing to help with it.i'm sorry i poked fun at you for bloating up your modest, \"embarrassing\" \"beefs\" with unimportant \"context\" and prodded you a little about your comment about how i couldn't possssssibly understand what you're talking about (which i'm sure you meant in the very nicest possible way). \"context\" is great and all... when you're writing a novel... but really, understanding your \"beef\" is entirely possible without all the nuggets of \"context\".i'm glad that's over.well, mebbie issler wasn't at the very top of your festering \"beef\" revenge list, but she's the only person i saw mentioned by name... so she must have been in the single-digits at least. if this kind of effort goes into a diabolical revenge plan to settle a few, ancient \"embarrassments\"... well, i already feel bad for the next poor sap at the jita burger fly-thru to forget your onion rings.i'm sorry i'm having a tough time swallowing that you'd go to this kind of trouble over a few old \"embarrassments\". it's like trying to eat brussels sprouts.a \"historical fact\" and your opinion are not the same thing. as for the personal insults, i guess i just overreacted to all this stuff:- discounting my posts as \"delusional ramblings\"- \"it really shows your gross misunderstanding of eve\"- \"your hatred for bruce has blinded you\"- \"teebee was a spy and a ****head\"- \"your failure to understand most likely stems from a gross lack of exposure to game mechanics\"- \"issler never grasped that concept\"- \"help coddle members like yourself\"- \"i wanted to start my post with that since you always seem to do that and i thought it might help me understand your lack of understanding... it didn't\"- \"the pointy end of the gun goes towards these people, just fyi\"i'm sure you meant all that in the very nicest possible way. i'm sorry for the misunderstanding.okay, wherever it is you live, it seems you're very concerned about something issler said about a 0.0 proposal. i don't think she's ever said anything about \"things being handed\" to all the \"coddled\" industrialists (which i'm sure you meant in the very nicest possible way) without \"work\".why are you so certain she's out to \"remove eve's challenges\"? i know it's asking quite a bit, but maybe you could clarify just what part of the csm meeting really upset your apple cart. something beyond just calling it \"dumb\", i mean (which i'm sure you meant in the very nicest possible way).dictionaries \"are good.\""
"the idea that somehow by changing your name would mean that suddenly you would be untrackable is crazy. as i mentioned earlier your identified in the db by a number, not your name. theres no reason that suddenly you would be removed from everyones addressbook, or any other changes would suddenly occur.your characters former names would not be reusable by other players either, you would still be searchable via that old name. the only places the old name would appear would be in your profile under \"previous names\", and when you search by that specific name. your still plenty findable."
"you are still missing the point, probably for a reason of argumentative motivation.ccp can find anyone, anything, anywhere, anytime in the database. that's rather obvious. the focal point here is not ccp however. it's about the capability of players to identify and track identities within the game environment using in game methods and tools, players who through some strange mishap do not have access to the database. twisted isn't it.just look at what you said for a moment, and really think about it. now think again.\"theres no reason that suddenly you would be removed from everyones addressbook, or any other changes would suddenly occur\"changes would occur. they would have to, since ccp always focuses on in game mechanisms and methods. you are hinting at tracking people by means of out of game methods, the character id number. that however is not a mechanism available within the game environment to the players, only to ccp, ergo they would have to look for other methods. ccp has those at their disposal, players do not.so, for it even to be considered, you would need an in game mechanism which allowed players to backtrack on identities. think of something like a really clever search agent, but one available to anyone and everywhere sans charges, as the parallel toolset of show info also is rather simple and straight up available to everyone."
"yeah, the only people that can be reliably trusted are corp members as they have actual penalties for betrayal (kicked from corp).set collateral at 120% market value of your items and pay decent money to get your stuff moved. freight service is expensive if you want it, don't ask for a cheap npc alternative."
"great idea"
"yes"
"yes, please."
"i support this idea. i feel that this idea should be implemented with a feature so that you can see all of the characters names since he has been playing the game. i feel that this name change should reflect to a degree how difficult it can be to legitimately change your name in real life in the uk you need to be known by a name for a period of no less than 2 years. this wouldnt be practical in eve so a name change should be no more frequent than once every 6 months.here is a feature that might bring more interaction to eve. rather than being able to see all of the characters names the show info for a given character may only show the last name used before the character changed his name. a level 4 agent could be asked to find all aliases known for a character name. the agent could also use an old alias in a search find the current character name. i feel this would be a good feature and would prevent scammers from becoming completely anonymous. we should take care to note that scammers particularly contract scammers use expendable alts, which are scammers main method of hiding his identity."
"i'm sorry i can't support this. just because there are currently methods for thieves, scammers and spies to circumvent the name problem, buy new characters and the fact that there are other mechanics that are currently being used unintentionally, does *not* mean we should implement more ways to do it.its simply a poor argument, sorry. :-/"
"supported.if i could i'd run a non combat high sec mining capital too."
"i agree - it would be nice to have at least one titan in hisec so new players can see just how awesome these ships are, without having to worry about whether their medical clone is up to date."
"this would be massively cool and give new players something to look up to. the titan in luminaire is an npc object, no big deal, people who play lots of space games are used to big npc ships. having a player titan in highsec would be incredibly awesome because it's a representation of how much you can advance if you're massively successful."
"no. to stop the innane argument for tourists: as far as i know, there is already a titan in highsec. npc, but still a titan. unless chribba is an npc, he should not be given preferential treatment."
"veld for the veld god! i would fly to amarr just for this. lol"
"as hidden fan of roleplaying, i support this."
"i would only support this if the ship was taken away from the player and made part of the game and not part of a player account."
"oh why not =p"
"i give your support to the idea/discussion going on.edit: my support, even."
"of course"
"he can't use the dd in high sec so why the heck not let him have a titan in amarr i support this will all my front and back sides."
"signed.missile were allready the weekest offensive weapon , they didnt need nerfing."
"they changed the missile damage formula apparently and since i don't know what it is i'm neutral to this thread now.running the old one with the new numbers though i was getting figures like 0.0006 dps for a raven on some targets, which is a rounding error. turrets start missing to the point they are missing all the time too but it doesn't happen at any range. missiles do a rounding error all the time, turrets do it if traversal is high.interceptors get a mwd sig radius penalty bonus now, that's also part of the reason for the huge drop but it dropped a lot for just about everything i tried since the explosion velocity of missiles are tiny now.once we know the new ways in which tracking and explosion velocity is calculated (if someone knows please point me to it) it'll be hard to say, from what i've heard from people their missiles have gotten weaker.one thing that does stand out is that battleships are able to outrun heavy missile explosions now, a different formula will only affect by how much they can outrun them. a medium pulse laser should not have terrible trouble with tracking against a battleship."
"guysas i have posted before.please. just stop whining.ccp have acknowledged your concerns and promised to deliver a review of capitals. don't hold your breath on any change as ccp simply don't care. they would have ensured something was done this coming patch if they did.the naglfar is the worst dread by an order of magnitude. you know it. they know it but ccp's lack of attention to rectification is a willfull conscious decision. it is not a function of prioritsation as capital changes have been mooted months ago. it is a deliberate game management decision.nothing you do or say will change it. no matter how right you are, no matter how valid your suggestions; ccp are incapable of admitting error and reacting quickly. that is the irrefutable conclusion to be drawn from past minnie ship rebalances.ccp have openly stated they want noobs and not vets and capitals are a vet's toy. at 50k members, they are focussing on the bottom line and things that affect just a small portion of the player base such as minnie ships are ignored because not many pilots fly them. simply cross train into amarr; they are now the fotm ably supported by massive changes in their favour. it's the only solution to poor game design and ccp's arrogance in the lack of attention given to this ship.you know it makes sense......"
"this is your opinion, just because minmatar doesnt fit into your cookie cutter setup, doesnt mean it is useless. if you dont like the ship, train for another race that is more your style. this is not necessarily a matter of what race is 'better' but obviously more one of different from your playstyle.that being said yes the naglfar sucks. how about get creative and put a triple trimark with 1x damage mod, and 1x captial armor rep. then you can put all the fukken sensor boosters you want. you are going to get outdamaged with 4x damage mods any way, so stop trying."
"i agree.while i hold no personal stake or ties to kenzoku (formerly: band of brothers), in of itself the principle that 1 director from 1 corp can disband an entire alliance containing whichever amount of corps/people, at the whim of 1 instant button push, is a bit silly.you may argue one way or the other about treating your high-ranked officers properly so that such a thing doesn't occur, but really that's not the point. it really is completely irrelevant whether or not you genuinely mistreated a director in a corporation, they still shouldn't be able to have such a massive impact on an alliance structure like that.it also doesn't matter that this has happened before. this is the first time it has been really highlighted because it was such a massive event. so the fact that it didn't happen before, is irrelevant..the point is that it shouldn't be possible, and now a lot of people (myself included) know that it's possible.i will repeat for the sake of marking it down. it does *not* matter what happened, who did what to who, who said what nor what happened beforehand. the point is that it should be changed, because it really is terribly silly that 1 person can, without votes, disband an entire alliance regardless of what the other directors want, what the other corporations want, ceo's, shareholders and so forth, want.this has nothing to do with picking sides between goons and kenzoku, this is about a game mechanic that affects everyone, and i genuinely hope people will treat it as such."
"not a single person from the affected alliance has supported this thread, so even they think it was alright. you really don't have to worry about your no-name alliance being the victim of this even if you post your account information here."
"the fact it is even possible is horrible =\imagine it happenes to your own alliance =s"
"obviously you didn't read my post. this has nothing to do with kenzoku, nor goonswarm - this has to do with the game mechanic that makes it possible in the first place to disband an alliance at the click of a button.this has nothing to do with how famous your alliance is, or how special you think your own personal alliance is. i know you're an alt character from one of these alliances, or at least support one of them, and thats fine, but honestly i have little to no use of what your alliance thinks or feels about this. this is about the actual mechanic, simple as that."
"i would also like to agree with the banning of bob posts now they are an alt corp.also would like a stronger stance taken against people starting new threads in coad to tell us about the dump they took today. it's not just goons, bob, and the internet, but it mainly is.i would place a bet that the last couple of weeks have seen record level of reports of posts in coad. the forums are one place potential players can come and see whether they would like to play and what sort of online community the game supports. any of them stumbling in to coad would be rather disapointed. it's a shame because the alliance system is a very interesting dynamic system overlaying this persistent world which is being currently championed by barely literate ****wits gloating through multiple threads a day."
"i support this. not necessarily as something that has to be enforced, but more like a plead to the caod people - all i see there are 2 things.1. the internet trolling full force2. goons talking to themselves/trolling.of course they're entitled to say whatever they want, but it's getting needlessly silly. i don't mean this in a \"tongue-in-cheek\" fashion or for that matter in a provocative sense. i genuinely think it needs to be toned down a bit."
"fix caod pls."
"i would also like to see a 'zero' tolerance policy enforced by ccp on caodcaod has always been messy but not so much as it has got in the last couple of years, its time for the 'ban stick' to come out and issued to all the moderators,extreme trolling in caod requires extreme measuresalsocsm members who post and troll/flame and are non constructive (im not saying any are btw) should have their posting privileges removed as they are in the public eye and should set a example to others."
"go away."
"as much as i respect your opinion efrim black - i have to politely refuse your request,i shall not go away until caod has been cleared somewhat of irresponsible posters, thankyouas my suggestions are to be fair only suggestions, call it a work in progress if you will, to work towards a caod that is used responsibly b) forum bans issued for repeat abusers c) basically make caod what it is intended for rather than the trolling flamefest it has become."
"they can use the corporate hangar on the orca even in npc corporations... same as any ship equipped with one.a npc corp pilot can not pull out of the ship, unless they are the pilot of the ship though.but the hangar can be used to drop items into the orca for the pilot to move around."
"yeah the only thing related to corp hangars in an npc corp is... the station based ones. the tabs and ship hangars are still accessible.besides: to get the benefit of the orca... they have to really train the leadership skills (yep, really hurts the achura min/max crowd...)not to mention the effort (even if it's rl work to earn enough to sell the gtcs) to afford the orca and implants"
"so let me get this straight - you're claiming that mining into an orca is 100% safe, yet you have orca/hulk fleets on your confirmed kill list?"
"but but he said they don't use a kill board anymore..."
"no, apparently they use a \"confirmed kill list\" which is not a \"kill board\"."
"my my, what bunch of nice replies showing exactly what i figured would happen; people who either don't understand the situation, somehow think that because it's not their preferred playstyle it therefore has no merit or are frantically trying to defend their advantage (which is ok ofcourse, although the fact that there's no debate but rather crap posting says enough).the reason we don't have a kb anymore is because we can't be bothered with the \"oooh we destroyed x mil!!!!!oneeleventy\". we kill a target and it shows up on the corp confirmed list, you know the one... in your corporation window, hence the \"confirmed kills\" name as... that's how it's named.most of you are incapable or unwilling to actually debate the real issue, the fact that being able to directly move goods into an orca from another ship (in this case a miner) isn't exactly in \"eve's spirit\" as it's a 100% safe operation while at the same time benefitting from the orca itself. oh well, i'll keep voicing my opinion on this. who knows what good it will do."
"*shoves a baby pacifier into op's mouth*get a backbone... go to 0.0 and go pirate there.stop your cryin.it's not a matter of people who didn't understand or didn't read... its you refusing to use your stupid brain.don't blame us for your short comings.and i have it on good authority that its not 100% safe... i know people who hunt orca's in high sec."
"again op, get smart about your targets. plenty of orca's out there with no fittings to assist in the event of attack given you precious seconds of suicide time if they are in npc corps."
"yeah, i mean they can't be suicided...then there are those juicy traders in jita just waiting for you to shoot them..there is no 100% safe, there are options you choose not to use.get it right opyou are whinging because your style of operation got harder, even though the number of orcas to miners isn't 1 to 1 or even close to being every miner dumping into an orca...you have targets out there, you just got to work harder to find them.they adapt of course.. and you'll start seeing more gscs used for storage or just transfer rendering flips impossible...or the ever fun hulk cargo runs."
"funny.. i see/hear more \"homophobic\" jokes and statements from homosexuals than i do from other groups... it's like the whole if you are black you can make black jokes up to and including the \"n\" word, and for the most part its tolerated, but if you are any other ethnicity, you would be labeled racist.i dont approve of double standards in that line, its more than just a bit hypocritical, since most of the jokes you hear about any minority originated from said minority. (you would not believe some of the really sick stuff i've heard)i dont in general approve of the lifestyle choices made by gays.. i dont try to beat them over the head with my disapproval either."
"\"water off a ducks back\" is all i got to say. it's not like the words someone writes in their bio or has a description of a corp/alliance are going to jump through a computer screen and kick your ass nine ways from sunday.they are just words, get over it and move on. you'll avoid being butt hurt down the road."
"this has to be a troll post...it really does. if the op was any sort of serious, they'd try to defend their views and participate in this thread. so far i only see 2 posts."
"hey ***got go play wow no ones about you or this thread"
"/signedblasters need more range/tracking or the need big dps buff"
"^^ this"
"agreed. blasters could use a bit of love."
"this is a pretty good idea.edit: just realised it's a corp mate too. i'd better start logging in again."
"station camping is for people who dont wanna get any kills.the game would be stupid if you lost ships just by pressing undock before you have a chance to play.so not signed its completelly not signed.camp a gate or use out of corp scouts to set up ambushes if you want kills."
"if this gets approved -- then we should be able to peek out the airlock window and see what is outside before undocking."
"stations should spit ships out at random locations around the station... not a single exit.then you can do whatever the hell you want station camping wise.because at that rate... you'd need a pretty large fricken fleet.and large fleets mean dedicated resources at one location...and one location means people can slip past at other locations... etc...etc..etc.."
"i'm not sure if this is going to be in with the expansion but i think it should be. i went ahead and got a new video card just to play with premium but jagged lines make my minmatar ships look like bad paper cutouts. so i found this thread:"
"i'd hit that."
"yessssno jaggies!i want to see the gleam of my duct tapped maelstrom!!!"
"absolutely. the current sovereignty system is so horridly flawed it ought to be erased from the history books of eve. i've heard ccp devs state they intend to eventually do something about it, but the csm ought to let them know it needs to be a priority. a top priority."
"feudal system should be an optionas well as:dictatorshipdemocracy[insert any political structure here]etc."
"this"
"yikes, i remember when veto corp used to be good at pvp instead of posting really noobish and awful roleplaying whines with very little knowledge of what \"game mechanics\" are.if this isn't a troll (which i hope it is) then this is pretty sad."
"concord is the agency set up by all the main empires, so when in any empire space you should get bounties/sec hits but when outside of their space you should not.even if the no bounties in 0.0 is not a good idea, i can hear the 0.0 npcers saying yes to that, the sec hits should not exist as you do not get hits for killing ships that are flown by a pod pilot but you do for killing ships that have a full crew. this does not make any sense."
"get the f*ck out now ***got"
"were you actually crying when you wrote this post?"
"i hope you all die (ingame)"
"i beleive that it isn't possible to establish common deadline for every point agreed by csm, due to balance recalculations, programming timings etc.but what should be definitely done - that there should be some kind of table with issues approved for development sorted by importancy/priority.people spend lot of their time in game developed by respective ccp. it would be honest to show ccp's respect to players helping to improve the game at least by some marks that their opinion wasn't just a flood at the assembly hall.anyway, i support that as an option of visual feedback from ccp to players."
"it gives the csm too much power.ccp is best are making the right decisions, seeing as they are a business and there's certain thing which the csm should have no influence on. the csm is there to broaden ccp's perspective and give a second opinion. it works well."
"i'll post my opinion below, whether you consider it constructive or not.ccp never needed to give us a csm in the first place, nor listen to any of their suggestions. to impose deadlines on them would only put pressure on what should be creative processes. i'd rather they took a year fixing something right, then six months pumping out something to please the community.i agree with vista, too much power for the csm."
"agreed... efrim has a valid point here...you people need to stop forcing the issue to your ideas... and start working together for constructive ideas and proposals.ccp can do whatever the hell they want in all reality... start thinking like that and you'll find it easier to deal with setbacks.don't like it? then leave... more stuff for the rest of us.harsh yes... but its reality... and reality is much needed here.so a big...fat...loud... not supported from me!"
"srsly.....die (ingame ofc)"
"not supported. the most popular ideas are not always the best. i would prefer that eve development is not diluted by any rules that force ccp to adopt an idea just because some group of players wants it to happen. the csm should continue to funnel our feedback to ccp. they should continue to champion ideas that they believe have merit. ccp should continue to impliment or not impliment those ideas as they see fit. there's been a vision behind the development of this game that should not be watered down."
"*no sec rat farming**gets caught by hictor w/ bubble**too stupid to fit a cloak, watch local or think about how pvp works**attempts to get hictors nerfed**fails oh so hard**rinse/repeat*"
"while your proposal is 100% ******ed -- one thing you may want to pursue is a scan res penalty to be associated with having a bubble up. basically will make a hic have a friend there for webbing.other than that, your proposal stinks of elderberries."
"and we fart in your general direction!"
"yeah this will work great then we can see people pvping with warp core stabs that will be greatgreat"
"i'm quite amused that a sin appears less capable than a dominix. the flavour text talks about it being a capable drone platform, yet the sin has lower hp, lower targetting range, and less power grid than the dominix. but it has an extra mid slot so you can fit a sensor booster to reclaim the lost targetting range, and 25m3 more drone bay so you can carry 1 spare sentry drone :)for all the sacrifices, you can fit a covert ops cloaking device, and get a higher agility so you can do a 180 and enter warp half a second faster. i don't imagine that i'll be trying to cloak my way through a bubbled gatecamp in a battleship any time soon though :\"
"covert cynos should work in cynojammed systems.black ops battleships, recons, covert ops, and the other ships that can use the covert jump bridge are either too expensive or too weak to take down a cyno jammer, even in numbers. this means that their strategic value isn't all that high. this ability isn't going to make them replace a large battleship fleet as the premier way to begin assaults on sov3 systems.what this does mean is that the purpose of inserting a small team of cloaking ships into a secure enemy system is to infiltrate behind enemy lines and just cause chaos and disruption.this is both a.) awesome and b.) actually what the black ops was intended to do. this combined with the range boost and the fuel bay would give black ops a niche without making it stupid overpowered"
"i think that once w-space comes up that blackops may get a boost. since it was confirmed on a ccp panel during fanfest that cynoing in ships is intended. of course they are still horribly broken but with the creation w-space looming we can presume that blobs will be unlikely an that smaller gang pvp can become more common. with this in mind why not gear the black ops ship to be more in line with the new w-space theme perhaps tweaking them to be design by various empires to explore w-space?just a thought... still please fix them :p"
"i agree generally, but finding someone with the time to do that is a problem. look at what happened to the ah list of issues - it started well, i yelled into a void for a month, and then it's barely been touched in the last 8. if someone wants to go through and clean it up, i'd be all for it, but given that it either has to be a gm or the op, it's not easy to find such a person."
"no. this forum needs two features. 1. an actual search engine for boards.2. a thumbs down feature to anti-bump threads and drive them down the list. this way only heavily supported ideas stay on the front page.this would allow people to find out if their idea has been tried, and also the opinion of the community on the subject."
"i agree its lame.the defender shouldnt have to step outside his fortress to fire.allow pos defenders to lock and shoot out through forcefield without need for force field dancing."
"escalated."
"well, with not just one, but three csm members showing support, i believe that qualifies it as \"can be brought to ccp's attention in 7+ days\", no ?"
"good idea."
"i have a level 4 \"internal security\" agent in the same station as a storyline agent. i run missions day in, day out. then the storyline agent gives me \"materials for war preparation.\" i'm running missions to get faction standings, and i keep getting the \"materials for war preparation\" mission which gives me piddling little standings boosts.it's getting to the point where i have to think hard in order to separate \"storyline agent\" and \"materials for war preparation\" as different concepts in my mind. as soon as i see the storyline agent appear in my mailbox, i'm already looking for kernite on the market before i've stopped to check what the mission waiting for me in the journal actually is."
"/signedthis mission is an utter joke and though i have profitted off this, its quite ridiculous."
"to andrea griffin and kahega amielden:gas missions - yeah i dont accept them any more and have you tried to use 2 harvesters? i do have more than it trained to rank 2 and i am told that i may not use more than one harvester per cloud. mining missions at down time - there is no point starting them, not because of ore disappearing, quite the opposite. the asteroids and the mission counters reset. you still have the ore you mined prior to down time but it will not be considered the \"needed items\". it is quite pointless to start a mining mission prior to down time unless you know you can finish it.yes, i do read the mission logs and some of them are really the opposite of what i would like to reply to my agent. talk about bad luck 4 l4 mining agents all giving kill missions. i, just as ankh, had to figure out something other than missioning to do. i think i priced a few items on the market for sale and logged. i agree, its not so much 4 hours but the ability to have something to do vs being locked out. agent ai would be a step in the right direction."
"i'd really like it if my mining agent didn't give me level 4 kill missions like \"vengeance\". i'm here in my hulk to turn rocks into money while drinking copious quantities of alcohol!i'd also like it if my internal security agent didn't give me trivial courier missions - they have plenty of rookies in frigates who can run those important reports over to the next station. i'm here in my battleship to blow stuff up!i don't think we should have some \"soft option\" for evading missions against enemy factions. if you're working for a minmatar agent, why wouldn't you go out and blow up amarr scum? well, unless you're in an industrial corp who already has business in amarr territory and is looking to establish a pos in other empire space to be closer to different markets i guess, which is probably one of the reasons we're running missions instead of mining and building stuff."
"its already a zero-risk isk machine."
"only problem i really see with this is that newer players may not realise what is happening when the accept a mission vs another faction.. the game should be very clear about what happens when you blow up another factions ships before you accept the mission.. like i said more for newer players so they will be able to make an informed decision as to accept or decline a faction missionif this is allready in game then their is really no problem with the current system."
"won't this whole issue be addressed with the new mission arcs?"
"t2 out of game i disagree with.1. wing it so that t3 bpo's require more data cores to save the passive income.2. allow invention to continue working as is and add in the t3's to the mix.3. lastly introduce t2 to market *gasp* we can theory craft this and that to no end, but my spin is:1. no real loss..pay days may take longer though2. t3's will become the new t2's (obviously)3. set the price to the typical multiplier (roughly 10x*) for the t2 bpo. pricey to say the least..making invention still worthwhile, and making it a challange for smaller corps/players to obtain...just not impossible and w/o ruining the edge of mega-corps and vets.*just as an example t1 bpo for say a bs is say 1 million isk (not literally) then the bpc are usually around 10k then.. so price a t2 bpc and multiply by 10 as a suggestion for bpo"
"no.and no i do not have one, nor off hand does anyone i know in the game have one.the reality is that the developers have been removing t2 bpos already,(anyone whith t2 bpos that gets hit by the banhammer thoes bpos go away) and quite frankly when a person with datacore alts can make enough every 30 days to pay for a plex i dont realy see it as something that needs to be \"fixed\"the reality is that if they did take them out people would just ring up a few more dcore alts/mains for a bit(heck i could add in level 2/3 r&d agents on my mission runner now all i would have to do is train the r&d skills instead of bs skills, which has me wondering why i did not do that to start with lol!)(inc skillplan update!)"
"i did read the full minutes from which i pulled the original quotes. i didn't see many suggestions from you besides those and some stuff about colonies. yes you noticed that the ui sucks and mentioned that although everybody knows that and it's not as bad as it used to be. i still don't understand how any of those suggestions are going to help anything. whether sov is based on pos's or ferrying people or goods from a colony it still won't matter if your opponents are station camping you. i'd rather fuel a pos a couple times a month to hold sov than play age of evepires and move stuff around from colonies.unfortunately due to having a family and a time intensive job i can't do so but this conversation did spark some interest in that.welcome to eve, where slamming people on the forums, war deccing their alliance and interfering with their tournament team are all fair play. that is exactly the point i'm trying to get across, these are things that don't need to be changed about eve. when pl hacked our forums and vent and went about dismantling bruce i was pretty ****ed, but in hindsight we left ourselves open for it, so i can't be that ****ed."
"you're asking the wrong person. we were wondering the same thing at the time.- your posts read like delusional ramblings, that's just my interpretation- as far as i can tell you do grossly misunderstand eve- i'm open to suggestions about what it was that actually caused the blinding then- no apology, teebee was an ass- again i'm open to suggestions on how the person referred to here came to misunderstand things- issler still doesn't grasp that concept, see the post above- what exactly does she do then?- seriously, the \"whew\" was offensive? ok i take it back then- you were the one who said you didn't know what those things were, so i took some creative license...if i have to explain why more carebears in 0.0 and custom paint jobs are dumb then chances are that the explanation would be lost on you."
"so am i to understand you've just admitted this entire thread is simply an effort at meta-gaming griefer tactics?"
"where have you seen that i've made any attempt to change any of that remaining possible in eve?issler"
"2nd csm formal meeting 7 - sunday 22nd of february 16:00 hours eve time.agenda: announcements: 1. 2. csm raised issues - (csm delegates must 1. reply to this thread listing the issue name and assembly hall thread they wish to advocate and 2. supply the issue in templated form to csm wiki)1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. popular issue (biggest unaddressed assembly hall issue <U+FFFD> will be added after csm raised issues.)1. aob (any other business) 1. 2. ***all csm delegates and alternates are invited to attend. can i ask the moderation team to pay special attention to this thread please and ensure that it is kept free of trolling, flaming and personal attacks and is able to serve its intended purpose of allowing csm delegates to list the issues they wish to be heard in the next meeting and for members of the eve public to ask questions in a respectful and civil tone.thank you"
"new format for dev-player communication on the list please."
"there are lots of \"tourist attractions in eve,\" such as the titan in luminaire, the damaged station in malkalen, the graveyard in kor-azor, etc. there are abandoned stations at planets in several systems, at several gates, and there are asteroid fields and ruins in weird places all over the place.there are beacons and markers on the map, such as the myridian strip, that you can visit as well. but part of the problem is that even when you arrive, they are spectacularly boring. i went there the other day, and it was two stations (with classic graphics) and some clouds.whoo. lots of interesting but boring things in eve. i'm sure something could be done about this."
"definitely support this! much needed as station containers don't allow the freedom of the hangar and utilization of the new apocrypha asset sorting."
"please"
"while i feel that being terrified of scammers is a poor argument against this issue. as is popularly said if you can't afford to lose it don't fly it, if you can't afford to have it stolen don't allow someone else access to it."
"do this, and you just fueled the macro miners, and then the market for megacyte will drop so low, it will kill all the real miners that are risking their butts in 0.0 to make money.i do believe that the system needs an overhaul. but not this.i am a miner in 0.0, flying orca, and a max hulk miner with michi implant. don't tell me i'm not risking it."
"all the way supporter"
"/signed"
"anyone who doesn't support this is a bad person"
"bump"
"i support drone lovin'!!"
"i want missiles do to 100% more effective dmg than turrets :p (even when i shoot a torp at a shuttle moving away from me at full speed) :dbut ill settle for equall :/and this is the worst missile nerf in eve's 6 years :(fix it............. ..!"
"i think its was a good call form ccp to nerf the missiles finally.as missile where way to overpowered for there always hitting and no minimum range.so the needed to nerve the heavy missiles a little more still now as the can hit inty's reasonable powerfull"
"signed"
"signed"
"amazingly enough i was taking the best possible fit for the naglfar in comparison with the others. yes, you can armor tank it and you don't need fitting mods but then you get literally half the damage of every other dread while having a weaker tank that's more cap stable. i know the appeal of doing the damage of a blaster mega while tanking as much as a chimera might appeal to you, but for 1.6 billion isk i'd rather actually get something out of my dread."
"please. just stop reading.the only way we, as a player base, can display that we do care about this issue and consider it to be of high priority is to state such.if you don't agree - fine. but telling us that you agree, yet we need to shut up because nothing has been done yet, is simply idiotic. feel free to avoid this thread if you think it is such a waste of time"
"can't argue against that.supported."
"minmatar caps need lovin. nag's slot layout and split weapons config needs looking at. surely a dread should be totally focused tool of destruction, jack of all trades master of none just doesn't cut next to a rev or a moros.signed/"
"obviously you didn't read my post, there is no problem with this mechanic."
"i'd have to agree here, maybe not with the justification even though it is a bit valid... largest alliance in the game gets this used on em and doesnt complain about it, i dont think anyone else has a right to do so either.but yeah, executor corp works exactly like ceo of a standard corporation, ultimate authority, no wait period to remove members (unless they have roles)."
"what???first of all it was a director that did it, not a ceo.secondly, i dont give a pair of flying dingo's kidneys that some random big alliance didn't complain about it. it has absolutely no bearing on what i think. what i think is that it's a broken mechanic that i'd like to see changedthird of all, you may not think the mechanic is broken, but i do.."
"okay - i'm gonna give this a thumbs up - not so much because of the initial issue raised - but i would like to give kudos/props to the gms to take action when a \"line is crossed\" in conversation between two people. trash-talking in local is well behind the line, but situations do arise where threats going beyond what could be called \"role-playing\" enter real world people's lives and these should not be tolerated by anyone. (anyone recall ginger magician?)"
"maybe raise the damage modifier boost on gallente ships so that the output dps of the right size blaster turret is much higher?also why would you want the caldari to be good at using blasters? blasters and drones make the gallente ships special to fly. if the caldari need boosting why not something else specific to them?ps: on the three turret types, to put it simply, do you mean blasters melt stuff both close and webbed, autocannons have trouble missing things they're supposed to miss and that pulse lasers tend to hit things at range but can be out-tracked easily? that'd make sense to me."
"a very simple thing that will allow bombs to be used skillfully, is to allow bombs to hit ships when they explode that are in range of the explosion and out of warp but which were not there when the bomb was launched. i've noticed this mechanism in testing and if it was fixed to what i propose bombs will finally have a decent place in eve, i promise.it only makes sense that a ship gets hit from a bomb that explodes right next to it, what difference should it make if it wasn't there when it was launched.edit: i would also like to know if this is a bug or it was intended this way."
"yes, yes, yes"
"definitely a step in the right direction towards fixing bombs."
"like this idea a lot. it makes sense to have multiple undock/docking ports as a single one may just be too congested. add some kick out too it say 3-4km that way if you do have some tacklers around you have a chance to get the target. as to station camping is not for getting kills i beg to differ. in our current campaign every single fight has been at a station. we have tried in our small fleets engaging enemy small fleets and they ctrl q as soon as they see us in system because they do not have the safety of the station deag'. its actually rediculous yesterday a lone i think i counted 13 logoffski's."
"[nighthawk, two fitting mods - 40 grid left over]power diagnostic system iipower diagnostic system ii[empty low slot][empty low slot][empty low slot]y-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivelarge shield extender iilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iiheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missile[empty high slot][empty rig slot][empty rig slot]notice this setup requires 2 fitting mods (lesser fitting mods, but still fitting mods) just to fit 1 best named mwd, 2 lse, and lesser cruiser/bc style weapons.just because these seem to be omnipotent pve gods, doesn't diminish from the fact these are one of the least subpar field command ships (you know the all out combat ones : /)unlike the sleip, you cant even come close to fitting an xlarge shield booster and the top setup hadnt even tried to put a shield booster on it; like below[nighthawk, need grid]reactor control unit ii[empty low slot][empty low slot][empty low slot]damage control iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivemedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 800large c5-l emergency shield overload iinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iiheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, thunderbolt heavy missile[empty high slot][empty rig slot][empty rig slot]here you use a best name mod for all midslot grid entensive mods(mwd, cap booster, shield booster) and congrats we dont need a second fitting mod(still needs 1)... until you fit anything that requires 1 grid in any of the other available lowslots.mind you this is even fully maxed with awu5. so again we have to fit 2 fitting mods to the ship to even achieve using lesser freaking weapons. good luck dreaming about hams. not only that not a single one of these setups tanks that well, let alone has the ability to tackle, without sacraficing more subpar tank.subpar tank while fitting pvp mods, while in a field commandship - checkeverything the nighthawk can do, the t1 drake can do better - check2 fitting mods to fit the lesser of weapons - checkpeople saying ships/caldari are fine based of pve - checkpeople who say the nighthawk is fine while never flying it - check(these check marks come from every single time a nighthawk thread is opened on the forums; these are the basic arguments that come up everytime, without the real reason.)"
"also just for the shats/gags and wtf it still doesnt fit?[nighthawk, i still need a fitting mod with light missiles]damage control iireactor control unit iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivemedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 25large c5-l emergency shield overload iinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iiassault missile launcher ii, bloodclaw fury light missileassault missile launcher ii, bloodclaw fury light missileassault missile launcher ii, bloodclaw fury light missileassault missile launcher ii, bloodclaw fury light missileassault missile launcher ii, bloodclaw fury light missileassault missile launcher ii, bloodclaw fury light missilesiege warfare link - shield harmonizing[empty rig slot][empty rig slot]warrior ii x5this setup requires a rcu to fit, or a pds + a 3% powergrid implant. congrats your still powergrid gimped (or maybe i should downgrade moar amiright?.)on and supported, forgot to add that in the previous post"
"the developers have gone on record to say that the nighthalk is not intended to be able to fit a mwd/gang mod and full rack of launchers and tank without making comprimizes.the nighhawk is not intended to fill every one of its possible roles with a single setup. you need to choose 2 of the 4 options, then you should be able to fit within the pg without too much trouble.nighthawk is balanced as intended."
"no."
"with 24 hours as a cooldown between jump clones. it's inevitable that there will be a drift in the time day to day, and some players (like me) may well have reason to want to swap between areas on a more regular basiswith that in mind, i propose the followingskill: name - neural pathway strengtheningdifficulty: 5attribute: with each level of skill cooldown time between jump clones is reduced 10%"
"so it has 1 support"
"ccp how difficult would it be for you to send out an email a week or 48hrs before someones account runs out ?or better still send it as an ingame mail from concord warning you that your clone contract is about to expire."
"well how easy would it be for you to actually pay attention to things you pay money for. that might unclog this board from all the other useless whining.try using your brain and your mouse.obligatory not supported."
"^ this"
"problem overview for anyone living under a rock:player corp standing with an npc corp/faction is the average of all active-account toons with non-zero standings to that npc entity. this leads to the absurd situation where a toon with low positive standing (e.g. 1.0) to an npc corp/faction is much worse for a player corporation than a toon with no standing at all.highsec pos anchoring is well known for the corp management shenanigans it requires, encouraging alt corps and quit/rejoin nonsense to manage standings.solution:allow resetting any positive standing a toon has with an npc entity, so that it no longer contributes to the player corp average. to reset a toon's negative standing, it would have to be raised above zero through other mechanics, and then reset.the interface to do this already exists for player standings: there's a right-click option to reset player/player-corp/alliance standings; that same reset option could simply be added to the r-click menu for positive npc standings.i can't imagine any potential for hax because this is a very narrow solution that only allows reducing a toon's personal standings for the good of its corp. it does not help individual toons at all. it does not address the \"stuck [negative] faction standings\" problem (which is more complicated and still needs fixing).real player corps (with mains!) could more realistically deploy highsec poses and maintain jc standing with npc corps, since players with positive standings that are bringing down the average, and no desire to run more missions, could simply reset those standings.reducing the amount of unwanted positive npc standings cluttering the database also seems like an opportunity to improve performance."
"uh... i'm sorry but i'm having trouble understanding how a positive standing would affect anyone negatively.the whole point of a positive standing is that its a positive standing.its the negative ones or a shortfall that cause troubles.while i get your implied issue... i think you got it completely reversed.my biggest issue is how bloody freaking hard it is to get standings up for an empire faction.it's getting to the point now where i'll have to kick everyone out of my corp for a week... drop a pos then let them back in.because my personal standings are far higher than anyone else...perhaps you should restate the issue again and then propose your solution."
"mistake in testing..."
"sported!"
"sure."
"eve governments are more efficient at collecting taxes than sol governments.its better the way it is, otherwise the market would be full of orders for trit at 2b isk a unit.no no not supported"
"perfect reasoning, a+not supported"
"take a step back... and say..sales tax.one more time....sales tax.go get a dictionary... no... not wikipedia you idiot.... a dictionary!!!look up the definition of sale... and tax.following me here?yeah.. i'm starting to see the spark of knowledge in you! that's the ticket!in case your brain imploded... sales tax is the taxation of any sale.... you make a sale.. you pay tax.it doesn't matter how.... business's pay that tax when its all said and done...so your argument is just flat.. ridiculous... and even then your throwing a fit over what.. pennies on the isk?seriously.... get a life man... take a break... go take a long walk outside and get a breather."
"businesses are required to charge sales tax on every sale they make - in the real world they calculate that tax at the time of the sale, collect it from the customer, and then pay that money to the government.eve streamlines the process by simply collecting the sales tax from the business ahead of time. it may seem unfair, but, in a market with limited competition (artificially limited by the total number of available sales organizations) it encourages the business to offer their products at a fairer price, so that, as someone already pointed out, we don't wind up with tritanium at 2bil isk a unit.not supported"
"this is not how the market works.the tax is displayed when you place the sell order, but it is not charged until the sale takes place.try testing before suggesting."
"ki tarra,after further testing i believe you are right.i made a mistake in my original testing.i have several hundred trade orders up.apparently during my previous testing some orders had completed while i was testing, causing me to see a sales tax for the wrong transaction.most of the items i work with are similar in price.its interesting, though looking at the responses.and seeing several actually against the idea of taxation at the point of sale.next time i'll bring this type of topic up in the features and ideas discussion,before bringing it here to help catch any mistakes."
"ya, i agree. it is pretty funny to see people protesting against a \"change\" to have the game work the same way that it has always worked."
"wow... he actually conceded and agreed!hey.... you just scored major respect points in my book bro.o7"
"i fully support all reasonable ideas to save drones after disconnection. including:- setting to auto-recall drones before emergency warping out... helps, but won't work for out-of-range sentries.- return control of drones after reconnect- setting to optionally disable e-warp completely. (if you're in highsec, not at war, and you can tank rats, why have e-warp at all?)- have npcs ignore (and stop shooting) drones that are no longer under anyone's controlthe last one is my favorite tbh, but it would be nice if all of them were implemented because they all address different aspects of the drone disconnect scenario."
"brilliant idea"
"actually i don't know about that one. couldn't someone just keep abandoning whatever drone was being targetted and create a cyclical drone-abandonement-tank of sorts? if they did it at close range they could immediately scoop and relaunch the abandoned drone and repeat."
"/rp robe onconcord has negative standings to guristas. concord hates the guristas so much, that they put a generally bounty/sec gain on every gurista ship that you find. they set the amount so that frigate kills are rewarded with small bounties/sec gain and the larger battleship gurista pirates that are killed means a larger bounty/sec gain.since the guristas live in 0.0, you will find more guristas there as well as the guristas biggest ships which will yield the highest bounty/sec gain. hence, security status of the sector does not matter, mighty concord hates the guristas so much that they will pay/give sec for guristas ship destruction anywhere, as every gurista ship killed is a win for concord./end rp robe****ing get it or do i need to dumb it down to a 2nd grade level?or are you telling me that if i kill a veto member in low sec and run to null sec, you won't care if you get revenge on me because i went to 0.0?"
"pretty much spells it out. : o )"
"this thread is a blatant troll. look at the op's corp.fixed"
"veto don't hand out isk for kills nor do we apply security hits. fact is that you get a security hit for killing some ships in 0.0 but not others. the empires do not like me due to my security rating and will actively hunt me in 0.5+ space and sit by and watch in 0.1 - 0.4 space if i am attacked. no player takes a sec hit for attacking me in any space and i only take hits in 0.1 - 1.0 yet no sec hit in 0.0 unless i kill npcs. this does not make sense.i know most of you are up in arms and calling me names over this as no doubt you enjoy the isk and sec you can get in 0.0. this is an idea and i welcome any constructive feedback but throwing insults and name calling is very poor form."
"hey morris, just for future reference, when you altpost something like this it's common sense to let at least a couple of other people post first so that when you post on your main it's not quite so obvious.~the more you know~"
"for future reference.... you might want to stop posting in a stupid assed topic like this.better yet... how about you both get a room.. and just get it over with.stfu! let this thread die for once!we don't need every frakking goon posting spam to prove a point.. yes we know your large and all dat.who gives a flyin rip!and for the people who want to see them ousted.... this is not the way to go about it... posting crap and making false accusations over nothing is what i call a waste of our time.well you people seriously shut the hell up already.i respect the goons... but i'm not going to go screaming every stupid little thing they do.i laugh at you people who gripe and complain about the scams and all the stuff they pull.. because its all public knowledge... your just too stupid to look it up.that and you have no common sense or rationality in bothering to think things through.this is a bloody game.. not life or death.... either you adapt or gtfo.but stop going totally berserk and attracting the flies... this is the assembly hall.. we come here to propose ideas and attempt to improve the game... not start conspiracy bs.get over yourselves.go war-dec each other or something... at least its more constructive then whatever it is your trying to do here!"
"bump. *waits for drake's stroke*"
"hrm.firstly, any real life threats need to be handled via one's local authorities. they have no place on this forum, nor in eve online.secondly, this type of thread has no place in this forum as well. i am therefore locking it."
"thanks, that addresses case 1 and 3. i hope they do log the other ones too."
"well, i had pressed f10 and was looking at the red coloured jovian empire space, when my mouse pointer went over the following system;0irk-r planet 0irk-r ix jove navy testing facilities station - theres a player corp office there. how?? why?? part of razor alliance - 'x-trader alliance'. is there something fishy going on? as im sure jovian empire space is devs only!"
"alliance tourny was that region and some people got out to it.years agosome havent kept themx-trading only one leftdont bother because u cant get over there."
"jason edwards : this week on mythbusters."
"don't forget the explosions!"
"the csm tell ccp their requests in order of priority already. so the most important topics to the csm gets talked about first and more thoroughly.you are mistaken in your thinking that ccp must do everything the csm proposes. maybe you should bang your head against the wall a few times to free up some more brain cells, as the concept of the csm is going right over your head."
"i've heard that fleet formations already was implemented few years ago and were disabled due to high load at servers to maintain them. so i don't think that this idea will give a shot.anyway i support it, cause i like it."
"lets go with raw isk to make things simple. how should ccp determine the isk value of each bpo ?no, what i was saying is that other players would see any change at all with the removal of the bpos except the whining of the people in the alliances that lost them.as i see it the bpos do give some players a permanent advantage. but all that advantage amounts to is that they have more isk than other players, so not an advantage i can care much about.how about increasing the quality of invented bpcs up to the level of researched bpos ?this will reduce the advantage that bpos have in material costs. so the only advantage for bpo holders is that the bpo owners don't have to pay the cost of invention. everyone gets access to cheaper t2 equipment."
"i'll tell you what i suggest.is that you start slowly getting rid of t2 bpo'show? incentives...first start simply...have npc buy orders for t2 bpos, and slowly over time raise what the npc will pay.also introduce some rare 'destroyable' items that have a t2 bpo as a requirement.for example a destroyable item could be a rare pvp ship, that u could only get from the loyalty store, it would cost loyalty + isk + any random t2 bposome people would go for it, not everyone but it would remove some of these t2 bpo's from the game. not all just overtime incease incentives for players to trade away to npc's these t2 bpo's removing them from game...by choice, not force."
"personally it is time to end these damn threads.why do you want to take away someone somehow earned?wait its because the majority of these threads are started by those that used to ***** about how they couldnt win a t2 bpo in the lottery.deal with it your a loser let the winners bask in the light."
"\"we were wondering the same thing...\" waitaminute! you mean to tell me that in three years after this horrible, horrible, embarrassing, embarrassing kettle of fish, you never got around to finding that out?\"if i have to explain...\" oh, okay, i coulda sworn someone said something about never dodging questions, musta imagined that.every kestral should look like every other kestral that's ever been or ever will be because... it's less confusing?three years stewing over a few \"embarrassments\" most people would have forgotten about... what's a few personal attacks here and there (i still know you meant it in the very nicest possible way)?\"welcome to eve, where slamming people on the forums, war deccing their alliance and interfering with their tournament team are all fair play.\" - hey! you're supposed to put a \"neener! neener!\" after that!"
"made a specific attempt, nothing yet. however as i detailed in my previous posts the suggestions you have made are leaning in that direction. 0.0 doesn't need to be adapted to get the carebears in, carebears need to be adapted to survive in 0.0. i started out as a carebear and through learning and practice i ended up as a respectable pilot that could participate in a fleet or roam solo. everybody can get there, they don't have to love pvp or go out of their way to find it. a well balanced corp should be setup to deal with anything it could face in eve and that is what makes them ready for 0.0. any changes to 0.0 to make it easier for carebears will make it easier for everyone. that means pl and kenzoku (bob) and ra and anybody else will have an easier time defending their space because of the things that are intending to bring more people out there."
"nope. if the reason wasn't good enough to keep her from getting in trouble with the alliance leadership then it doesn't matter to me. to be fair though, i don't see how there could be a reason good enough to justify it, red boxes are a shoot or die situation. either is more acceptable than paying them for protection.i've explained the situation sufficiently enough that anybody who understands the situation properly would know why it was embarrassing. anybody who doesn't would most likely need to experience it themselves to understand. in that respect i would highly encourage you to motivate your corp/alliance to move to 0.0 and try to survive there. it's a great learning experience in many ways.ok, i'll explain this one because not everybody is going to know about the mechanics of software development. the graphics you see on that kestrel are called textures, they are rendered onto the model of the kestrel. the textures that make up any ship you could potentially see in space have to be loaded in memory ahead of time or else there would be severe lag when the client was notified to draw that ship on the screen. so if you had a kestrel with a custom paint job those images would need to be loaded into memory by every person playing eve anywhere in the world.i wouldn't call it stewing. we had nothing going on that weekend, many of us wanted to exact some revenge so we did. my posts in this thread are barely even close to personal attacks if you look at what goes on in eve. go read caod for 5 minutes and your definition of a personal attack may change."
"a simple, \"my mistake, sorry\" would have sufficed. is this thread now about what you think issler is capable of instead of what she has done?at this point, i do believe you've said more about carebears in 0.0 than issler."
"what she has done so far has not alleviated my concerns about what she is capable of doing in the future. so it's about both. and that means what?"
"have i been mislead, and you're here with noble constructive intentions? i'm sure both issler and i would love to hear your thoughts on the future of eve. i'm sure you have just as many constructive comments to future game development as you have had complaints to isslers ideas.we can make this a productive thread yet, i eagerly await your thoughts."
"i would like to add an issue and revisit one from the past due to new information.1. transfer sovereignty to corporations2. removing t1 meta 0 loot drops from npcs, mark iisee ya on sunday.edit: it seems they changed the thread ids, so i switched to a post by ccp that shows the exact percentages for anybody curious. the link that used to be there was the one used previously, so i know it worked, but now it seems to have gone the way of the dodo."
"the link for removing t1 meta 0 loot drops from npcs, mark ii is a thread about small changes to missions to make the more fun..."
"which was even raised during the last csm too."
"apparently no one thought of a simple way to deal with this, but you simply put up a forum or database with a script that says \"hearee hearee, on this day, vuk lau became luk vau.\" if you can find public character sales (eve search) you can search both name. people being unable to think of a way around this is mind-numbing."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"bump"
"i suppose i've been lazy. yeah... that's the excuse i'll use for not supporting this before now.really though, i guess i just thought that something would of been done by now."
"i've posted a couple of times in favor of this. i'd like to add that if this could go with making setting up pos's easier from a ui perspective it'd be great."
"ok, wiseguy, so what's the big deal if some silly macro mines the 1% concentration arkonor instead of going for the 100% concentration veldspar rock right next to it ?i'll tell you what, he'd actually be losing isk that way."
"while i know you aren't actually serious, still going to not support this. favoritism isn't cool. you can always park the veldatar in some lowsec pos to display the epeen behind glass (forcefield)."
"give the man what he wants, a happy chribba is a good thing."
"yus ^^"
"the veldator should also automagically ignite its ddd once per 2 hours, removing all veldspar roids from amarr faction space."
"signed...i like missiles too."
"o/"
"love the rust, pls don't make me train shiney gold stuff's, they use kittens to polish them don't you know!"
"the fact that it's been 9 months with no response other than a completely generalized \"we are looking at all capital ships\" response ticks me off to an insane degree. it's horrible pr and it indicates a complete lack of caring.get off your a**es and do something, ccp."
"a buddy of mine was bumped repeatedly by random players in an l4 when he was dying (in high sec). this prevented him from warping. rats killed him. random players looted the wreck.i think that if you're in deadspace, if a player unfleeted bumps you, it should probably flag them as aggressive.fwiw i think this is really clever, but i view it as an exploit (like item duping)."
"said player should petition for harassment..."
"should have had a better tank."
"why was he letting people he didn't trust into his missions ?"
"troll troll, is very troll, and full of troll. would the troll not agree troll?"
"i guess you never heard of scanning?"
"while i myself do not approve of a gay lifestyle. i will not criticize or torture them for it. people have a right to choose who they choose to be with. but reading corp descriptions or bios and getting offended is just plain ridiculous. its a game people say horrible **** just to **** other people off. same thing in the real world. if someone gets ****ed off at you what are they gonna do? find something that is wrong with you and demean, you for it. this is a game just because you see someone say i hate gays/homos or anything like that dont take it to heart they are just trying to **** you off. if someone directly harasses you then by all means petition it. but dont petition them for a generic bio or corp description unless it is truly ruthless."
"have you tried filing a bug report?"
"this sounds like a bug, but it could also be that your bombs are going off before the player has dropped out of warp and became vulnerable (ever notice you can't lock people who drop out of warp for a few seconds, or until they do something)..but yeah, boost bombs!"
"yes, i filed a bug report no response yet. and i did not notice on any known bug lists, i thought they might have it intended but it could be a result of the timing between the module activation and the aoe effect. smartbombs activate instantly and i was pretty sure they could hit people in warp, at least so i have heard.i did a lot of testing on the test realm a bit ago, to test the viability of bombs, and it doesn't look like they have fixed it from the patch notes since then.during the test i asked them if they were out of warp when the bomb exploded and they would say yes, and during numerous tries i came to the conclusion that i could only hit them if i launched it right as they were loading on the grid.i will try to setup tests on tranquility and report back with a more detailed results."
"if there's to be any ship buff's... minmatar goes first!: o p"
"<stupid internet connect caused double post>"
"just lol at listed fittings.. a mwd nighthawk? no.. shield tankers are not supposed to tackle, and if you're using heavy missiles you dont even need to be that close to hit your target tbh, hams would be a different matter, but in that case you'd be looking more towards a gank nh anyways and would have to sacrifice tank for it.. not supported at all, and i fly one of these things."
"currently, the nighthawk's bonuses are this:highlighted what appears to be wrong with the description. as far as i can tell, the nighthawk only gets its second bonus to heavies as per the description (rather than it being an error in the description), meaning that fitting assault missiles or heavy assault missiles means you lose out on your damage bonus, and only use up the rate of fire one.i think the simplest proposal would be to give this command ship a niche role; anti-support. change that second bonus to include assault missiles. currently a heavy missile nighthawk can do around 500 dps with a realistic fit using heavy missiles at up to 85km. this change would allow it to deal 400 dps against smaller targets at up to 45km and have more than enough grid left over to tank it up to the eyeballs."
"the salvaging exploit is getting out of hand. players have found a way to steal the salvage from someone elses wrecks without being flagged aggresive. this is obviously an oversite on the part of the developers as people get flagged for stealing in eve, ie can flipping to pop agressino timers and the like. people actually abuse the theft = flagging mechanic to try and pick fights in empire space.please make fixing this oversite a top priority as it kills what i believe most people are drawn to eve for, the dog eat dog kill or be killed world and it enables griefing which i think another thing people like about eve is if someone is griefing you you can actually shoot them.please look into this, i'm not sure if you've been made aware of this oversite but it would be nice to see it corrected"
"sorta makes me wanna ask if that means stealing from cargo containers flagging people is unintendedbut at least i know that it's supposed to be brokenthanks for the info"
"lets see i think your thread #250 on this subject. its aloud by ccp and they have stated this. how can u claim something that was nvr really yours."
"obvious troll is obvious."
"you whine enough times for ccp to change it son."
"indeed. the op has been determined a troll, and this case will now be handed off to the troll post rating commission. from this point on, any poster who falls for this troll will be issued a forum dunce hat."
"2/10unimaginative and annoying troll"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"the troll post rating commission has rendered its ruling. this matter is considered closed. from this point forward, anyone posting in this thread will be issued a forum dunce hat."
"i would like the csm to raise this issue with ccp - why is it that if you remote repair someone with a low security status you get a global criminal flag? please change this mechanic so that you only get flagged for repairing someone who has a global criminal flag themselves."
"supporting my own topic."
"this has been brought up before and unless ccp changes their thoughts on jump clones, no support.--isaac"
"considering ccp already has a problem with jump clones having made eve quite a bit \"smaller\" i think this would only make it worse.. not supported."
"linkage please for ccp views - google has failed me.i confess i see neither the technical nor the philosophical reasons for denying this - that jc's make the universe too small is an argument against jc's in general, rather than the details of their operation - and that is not on the cards. having a (small) proportion of clones with a 12 hour cooldown instead of a 24 hour cooldown does not, it seems to me, materially affect the dynamic of this facility, but rather gives a measure of increased flexibility to the community.i declare my interest here as one who fights in fw and would rather not take a break for 24 whole hours (in practice more) when i jump to my mission running system"
"i would like to see jump clones elminated or severely nerfed. no support."
"dosen't take a math genius to figure out why your idea is ridiculous.think about it...every time you push the time limit down... people can move around the game much faster.soon you'll be throwing a #### fit over 12 hours being too much.. and want the bloody thing shrinked even more.not supported..ever."
"the combination of jump drives, and jump clones, has pretty much negated the need for actual trade lanes, or the need to actually risk your implants travelling places.i know they will never change those things back to the way it was, but the last thing we need to do is make this bull**** easier.not supported."
"all these comments are from a position of not liking the mechanism of jump clones at all, and with respect that is entirely besides the point of this discussion. if you wish to campaign against jump clones can i suggest you make a csm petition specifically suggesting that.in the meantime, i'm looking for ideas and discussion on how the system that does exist could be made more flexible for those of us who do use it without it being used in lieu of regular travel. at 24 hours there is an unavoidable phase shift in the timing of your jump clone, eventually causing a bulk movement in this timing that serves as an unecessary inconvenience. to solve this i have proposed as above. 12 hours cooldown seems to me to be a good minimum, as it remains long enough to prevent it from being a means of more regular travel whilst ensuring that, with a finer degree of control there is less inconvenience for the user. to pre-empt the inevitable comment, of course there would be a phase shift at 12 hours, but it is unarguable that inconvenience is a monotonically decreasing function of jump frequency. it's just a question of balance.if there are real or practical reasons why this would not work (or you feel that 50% is too lenient and another value might serve better) then i certainly want to see your ideas. if you just don't like jump clones then this is not the thread for you, i'm sorry."
"i'm sorry too.\"considering ccp already has a problem with jump clones having made eve quite a bit \"smaller\"\"since ccp doesn't care about your jump clone improvements either.i'd be suprised if they didn't make them harder to use honestly."
"i raised this but i believe it was voted down. i'd have to double-check however."
"indeed, but i asked for a source on this and none has been forthcoming, so that's really just hearsay at the moment.csm voting is a level zero veto though so if this has been raised and rejected before then i'll have to let it die, so confirmation would be appreciated, thanks."
"how about you try reading the frakking post you idiot.seriously.... are you trying to live up to your name?i just told you why... and you are obviously blind as a bat.the point is not that we \"hate jump clones\"we didn't say that...if we hated jump clones we would say it...i said it would make it a little too easy for everyone to move about the game without restraint.that and i also said that you would encourage people to remove the time limit all together.spend more time reading and less time putting words into our mouths.you'll get farther... not to mention live longer.i beleive a 24 hour penalty albeit cumbersome... is a fair compromise.otherwise it would be abused something fierce.don't like it? then i suggest you figure out a way around that problem other than making the system worse as you obviously implied."
"where is it cant find it"
"try using the archive loser.can a dev lock this please? no reason for this to keep getting bumped to the front page when the issue has been dealt with."
"while i dont need such a feature, it surprises me to no end that ccp does not have some sort of notification feature.i would think that they would actually increase their revenue stream a bit more if they did. since people would be less prone to have an unpaid account for a day or two while they arent paying attention.there was an excellent idea presented by csm, calling for a countdown clock to be on the character selection screen."
"sounds like a good idea, and i'm paying by credit card so i wouldn't make any use of it."
"this is such a good idea that the csm has developed time travel just so that they can discuss the matter with ccp a month before you even posted about it."
"and this is why we need a better search engine."
"uhm, just make a spreadsheet with a field \"days left\".also, the expiry date is available on the webserver - so if anyone at ccp says sending out an email when an account is about to expire is \"difficult\" they are wrong.they sure know how to send automated emails when your account is expired to trick you into signing up again. :d"
"there's a current issue where someone can engage in combat in high sec while being repaired by unflagged players. i like being able to repair flagged players, as a mechanic.however, i would like to see the following changes:-warning message \"are you sure you want to repair xxx? he's flagged y0.\"and if you repair him, you get aggression against all players who the current player has aggression against.in other words, if you repair someone who has done something naughty, people can take revenge against the repairer.this is extremely fair and would prevent can tippers from becoming invulnerable in combat."
"you might want to check your mechanics there...last i checked... anyone who rep's a aggor'ing target is subject to being shot at without penalty.warning or no warning... this is already in place.feel free to correct me <looks at everyone else>."
"this post is based on what i've heard others say... if you're correct, that's great!could anyone confirm?"
"i would refer you to this kb artical, but concidering that the gang aggression paragraph has been out of date since june , about all that i can suggest is that you test it to confirm for yourself."
"with my current situation and the economy. was wondering if the issue could be raised of a main client that can scale down to what classic has atm. i know many of people that play while on the road and don't have super gaming rigs. was wondering what the csm could do to raise this issue and see what can be done or is being done to make eve like it is now really accessible instead. most people play it for the gameplay the pretty graphics are just topping. any feedback would be much appreciative."
"i have an issue, it is people who hear about an issue from a guy who knows a guy and makes a terrible thread on ah when they have absolutely zero clue to what is going on.if you haven't figured it out, it is you, you are the issue."
"if your current situation concerns you economy wise.. then you shouldn't be playing this game."
"here's an example:i have 5 people in corp, we all have +8.0 standings with caldari so we can anchor a pos in caldari high sec space. we are able to do this because the corps standing to caldari is the average of our corp members standings, which is 8.0my new friend bob joins and he has 0.0 standings with caldari. he doesn't count for the standings calculation since he has no standings. now bob runs caldari missions, now he has 1.0 standings with caldari. now the corps average standings is below 8.0 and we cannot setup high sec pos anymore.i do not support this proposal as i do not like high sec pos period. i'm well aware of the + and - effects in high sec, but mainly high sec pos are used for me research slots, bypassing the station slot mechanic and the mechanics resulting are just terrible. i'd rather have me slots in empire looked at and a new mechanic put in, so that if you want an me slot, you can compete for it or something.pos are and high sec pos are"
"at least your example makes more sense than the op... no offense to the op.as for the mechanics.... i think the better solution is to have the ceo weigh in...not the membership."
"for the love of god, no moar lol, quantity over quality, or invention can produce moar than a t2bpo per week.bigbadbob has a t2bpo and can make 200 bobits a week, demand for bobits sits at 1400 a week, invention sets the price because invention is stocking the market not the t2bpo.yet an other troll thread or a new member who has just heard the shocking tale of t2 and had to run to the forums..."
"jesus, what's the point with saving the current t2 bpo owners and keep the value up on them?everyone's complaining about how cool it is that the game is not based on fairness and that it is good the way it is now but then the same ppl start whining when the \"unfair-balance-train\" hits them. i don't see a reason why t2 bpos should be limited to a small blessed group of ppl."
"hooboy! i'm feeling another 'whew' comin' on.\"i don't even know who own's the mcskanky character.\" uhm... hello? brand-new guy? how did you miss this part?when did i say anything about the reason being \"good enough\"? i am just amazed you would cling to all that bitterness for three years without finding this out. this was the big enchilada of your \"embarrassment\" \"beefs\", remember?\"i've explained the situation sufficiently...\" uhm... i think you need to go back and read your own quote here, you're talking about something completely different now. and you wonder why i say 'whew'!\"...blah... blah... blah... those images would need to be loaded into memory by every person...\" then it's simply astounding that other mmo's are able to pull this off (and have for over 10 years). how do they do it?!\"we had nothing going on that weekend...\" uhm... haven't we already established that a lot more than a weekend was put into \"exact[ing] revenge\" for some 3-year-old \"beefs\" about a few \"embarrassments\"?\"...has not alleviated my concerns about what she is capable of doing...\" wow! if you're going to sit around worrying about what everyone might be \"capable of doing\"... well, it's no wonder you don't have any hair.\"go read caod for 5 minutes...\" yes, yes, there's always someone doing something worse than you are. kids discover this excuse at 4 and some never stop using it. oh yeah! a \"neener! neener!\" should have gone after that too."
"and niskin is clearly one of the people that has no clue about the modern graphics rendering pipeline. while something as radical as a \"hello kitty\" kestrel would require unique textures major changes in apperance could be affected almost for free in terms of performance using the gpu shaders. there are also textures already available local to the client that can be included in the final rendering that currently aren't used, the alliance logo and corporate logos for example. simple initial performance profiling could be used to determine if this addtional final rendering is performed and could even be made option via the graphics options ui.so my advice niskin, is don't talk about technologies areas where you have no understanding because you'll say stupid things, like you just did.issler"
"no. this way you could simply change your mains name. and walk away free from both your reputation and deeds by changing name and portrait.it should not be possible.no, no. no."
"i'm reading through the mountains of trolling, and i'm constantly referencing the forum rules to keep a tally of how many rules are broken. the number's gone higher and higher, and in most threads there are no mods to be seen. the rules of the forums are pretty clear, but i'll highlight the ones that are being consistently broken: etc etc etc. why is the moderation staff just giving up on moderating some of the larger threads? it took a wave of spam topics before fallout stepped in, and that was just to lock them, not even to glance over the last few threadnoughts."
"rather than counting, hit that report button and copy+paste the rules in. mods will then step in asap."
"i support this and will bring it for the next csm meeting, just need to double check why this was not implemented ages ago"
"this is so vastly superior to the crap we have now."
"bump because this is still a major issue! i'm sick of seeing falcon threads when the arazu is so underpowered."
"not supported. dampening still works and we saw a lot of it in the tournament. gimp? i think not. especially when most of them dampening weren't the ships in this thread. --isaac"
"+1 for the 'inspiring wonder in newer players and keeping them in the game with the desire to attain' band"
"who cares? if new players want to see a highsec titan there is one in luminaire. this isn't about 'player content' or anything else. it's about you being a forum celebrity and wanting special treatment for it. i'm sorry, but building your image about a type of mineral in game does not suddenly give you the right to get special treatment. i know there is an in-game love affair with you among new players because they see you as some kind of mining hero, but tbh a lot of the major alliances have done a lot more noteworthy things and they aren't demanding they get their titans moved to highsec.*puts on his flame-retardant suit*"
"i don't see why not"
"chribba love ftw"
"^thisi'm sure most of us have given up by now and started training for the rev. with dreads being such a prominent force on the for front of large scale 0.0 combat you think they would take a serious look at this issue. maybe they are just waiting for every nag pilot to give up and cross train to another race like most of us seem to have.don't forget that going nuts with the nurf bat can be very tiring. i'm sure they are just relaxing off the taxing act of not doing any thing productive."
"perhaps most upsetting, a naglfar fix would be incredibly simple to implement. they can spare enough man-power to implement walking in stations, but can't have one guy go adjust the attributes of a ship???"
"i had the idea of adding the possibility of having a que for deploying posses making it possible to stack onlining jobs in the control tower so you don't have to wait for every structure to go online and manually online the next one after 10 minutes. could also be used for anchoring of course.a photoshop example:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.show your support at this thread and or leave constructive critism and i will get back to answer you question as soon as possible.anyone who has ever deployed a few posses will support this i bet op update:i agree that some boundaries should be put into place.i think there should be a time limit on the starbase itself and next to that an alliance/corp restriction in a fashion where you can only anchor/online 1 pos at a time in the fashion of:\"you can not start a secondary queue or anchor/online another module on a starbase structure in this system as your alliance is too busy doing the essential paperwork for another starbase structure.\"if this was to replace the current game mechanics it would limit an alliance of setting up more than one pos in a system at a time also bringing down pos spam, while keeping the sovereignity system in place.ofcourse there should also be boundaries in place of how many posses you can deploy per constelation and per region at one time."
"supported"
"talking to a suicide ganker today. he uses trial accounts about 1-day old to suicide gank, and discards them when they hit -5 standings.this is really unbalanced, as it allows people to just continuously suicide gank without the requirement of grinding their standings up, or losing them, effectively.so... basically i guess the solution is to disallow trial accounts from attacking people in high sec unless they're aggro'd.kinda lame, but... i think it's the only solution.i mean, trial accounts are restricted from a number of activities that unbalance the game (like flying indy's), so, this seems like a natural exclusion also.edit: he said that he would bring bigger ships if he wasn't able to do this... i feel that would be totally fine and totally balanced (bringing the bigger ships)."
"it is already an exploit. petition if you see it."
"it is an exploit and with the changes to the rookie (low sp) he will no longer be able to jump into a suicide cruiser instantaneously anyway."
"when are those changes coming? mar 10th? should i basically make all my alts now? :)"
"fwiw i think it was suicide destroyer: 500k ship, 4.5m fittings.just for popping shuttles and newb ships.edit: as long as i'm here, the guy said 1/7 time nothing drops, 4/7 everything drops, 2/7 50-80% drops.(75.71% ev for cargo)does this sound about right, based on your experience... i could go through a lot of killmails or something to verify this, but if this works out with what you guys have experienced in looking at your own killmails then that'd be good to know."
"trial accounts should not be allowed such things... if ccp hasdn't already nerfed it... they should!supported<arg... ninja edit.... posting on an iphone is not easy>"
"trial accounts should not be an option to get around standing mechanics. at least, not in high sec.with skill queues coming, it may become viable to cycle trial accounts even if the ganking only becomes possible on day 20 of the 21 day trial.blocking trial accounts from doing anything that would trigger concord is one option."
"i had this idea a little ways back. goto mission hubs. buy all implants. then get a number of suicide ganking chars that will allow you to suicide gank, get to -5, then biomass the char.i made a petition asking if it was allowed.gm said it is not an exploit or anything.the obvious fix is... dont fly around in ur pod.ps. you dont have to be a trial account to do this. paid account can have main + 2 other chars that could do it."
"where did the op say anything about pods being ganked ?his talk about drop rates tells me he is talking about ships being ganked.a paid account has to deal with the character deletion timer. but someone cycling trial accounts doesn't have the timer to worry as they can throw away the account once it's full (or switch to another while waiting for the deletion queue to end).if the ganking characters require skills beyond what they get at character creation then the person using a paid account needs to halt training his main to train the gank characters, and can only train one ganking character per account. but that also does not apply if he uses trial accounts because he can have as many accounts as he needs.so using trial accounts allows him to cycle the gank characters faster, while still training his main, for free."
"please create a petition under rules & policies, exploits if you see such behaviour in game."
"gtfo and go back to wow.welcome to a world where you have to fight to defend what you hold precious."
"working as intended."
"or they like pvping in empires space, want small gang or 1v1 fights and don't want to get invoved in 0.0 politics and pos sieges."
"meh, stay in an npc corp if you don't like wars.though i wish you could war dec those too :)"
"right now my alliance is involved in a war with another who ****ed us off claimed space where we lived was theres and were a general annoyance we have killed one barge in high sec the rest have been pvp ships and the occasional hauler on top of that we have killed 2 of their empire poss something which we could not have done if you got your change. im sure there are some people there that are out to grief noobs but at the same time you want to be in a corp and have the advantages that come from that you have to take the good and the bad like war decs and corp theives and spys its all part of the game."
"i work for a ltl (less than truckload)freight carrier in real life. with a few extra tools added to the current contracts systems, player corps could solve the delivery problems in eve and profit from it, generating new careers.you do not need much.1. add a contract that can be used to combine many small courier contracts into 1 large courier contract, to transport the small packages intact inside one other large one. this combined ltl courier contract should have it's own, separate collateral & destination.2. add a contract that can be used to combine many small courier contracts into 1 large item exchange contract, in which a percentage of the profit could be transferred from corp to corp as with the responsibility of the collateral being transferred as well.please please please, let players have these career options, and let corps run this instead of npcs.ris dnalor"
"i agree with op"
"or turning corpses into soylent green :pbut seriously, yes it's a rp tool. it couldn't hurt anyone, and it would help the rpers enjoy the game."
"homophobia, or irrational prejudice against any group is bad.however, this is not a case of it.get off your high horse, stop being so oversensitive and be grateful that you live in a liberal society where homosexuality is not persecuted."
"if this is happening it needs to be fixed."
"hi,i'm sure many of you know about the ways local and buddy list allows you free intel in the game, particularly when traveling through certain systems or for finding out who is online during a war.are there any firm plans to change this mechanic?"
"lets see how it affects wormhole space (confirmed delayed local).buddy list will never change, you still need some way to determine if a player can be convo'd."
"when i phone someone, i have no idea if they are home or not. i wait 20-30 seconds, and if they don't pick up, i know i won't be talking to them at the moment. then i can email them, in that case. but what i don't have is an indication of who is home or can be called.personally, i could live with that uncertainty, if in turn there was some \"fog of war\" in conflicts and sector transits.recently i had a mission in a sector of space that the bushwhackers control pretty tightly. (low sec.) i buddy listed the members of the corporation, particularly the ones i most often saw hanging out in that system. as soon as there weren't many of them online, i jumped in and did my mission. fair? not really."
"yet if you were to talk online on msn or skype you could see their status while they could block you thats not really the point"
"if you haven't seen the new warp effects then i urge you to check them out, they can be viewed here but i'd urge you to also get on sisi and check it out yourself.basically, if you're like me, you'll agree that the new warp is made of incredibly epic fail. so epic in fact, that i feel it should not be included in the expansion, and that the current effect should be retained. players, csm members, i urge you to take action on this now, before its too late."
"yes.. lets all panic and riot in the streets over a product that hasn't been released yet.you need to get a life and take a break from this game kid."
"its not that bad, maybe you should go drink a can of stfu?"
"that silly arguement keeps popping up but it doesn't make any sense. if something is on the test server and people don't comment on it that it's broken or causing issues then it won't be changed or taken out, now would it."
"i assume the same applies to bug reporting? we shouldn't report bugs because it is only a beta version and clearly those bugs will be fixed by the final release. fail.i too dislike the new warp effect, and unless people state they dislike it it is unlikely that ccp will change it significantly."
"/signed"
"i like it personally."
"i think it looks okay really, it just needs something to give a sense of forward movement.also, don't forget a lot is broken on the test server, and (at least for me) there's no sound when warping. it's probably better with sound."
"did i say anything about bug reporting? no.making assumptions - epic failjust because its on the test server dosen't mean it will be implimented.try using your head before speaking.as for the other comments...look... i get that you need to complain to ccp.... so complain to ccp in the test (singularity) forum board and or ideas and features.don't waste the csm's time.they have influence over tranquility... not singularity. duh!?"
"technically he has a point...i like the new effect as well, just some minor tweaks would make it good.the old warp effect looks like a cheap windows xp screensaver."
"i'm not going to freak out, the devs know our opinion."
"geez, you guys need to calm the crap down. ccp hasn't released this on tranquility and you've got it in your head that csm is going to fix it before it comes out? csm is not going to bug ccp over an issue that hasn't even been released. its ridiculous and a waste of time. take this thread somewhere else. --isaac"
"why would it be too late after implementation? why would they be unable to change it back?in anycase, they have been tweaking it for a few days. i like the direction the new jump and warp effects are taking, they link with the cynosure effects, and create an actual theme.pretty badass really, if they get the sounds right, and add a bit of blur or something, it will be perfect."
"defnitely prefer teh old one right now things might change but its unlikely to change enough for me"
"after checking it out myself i must admit i don't like the new warp graphics, there's more new graphics that seem just to be made for the sake of being sparkly and new rather than being focussed on what it's meant to be for."
"i happen to agree with efrim here... i like the direction... nice change form the status quo graphically speaking."
"there is no problem. you are simply fitting it wrong.lots of ships cant properly fit big guns + tank.you still can use the bonuses of the ship to the best of ur ability.ishtar on the otherhand...no matter what you're doing with the ishtar... you basically never use medium hybrids. you have to go nos/neut or small guns basically. or medium projectiles on some setups."
"i'll keep this simple - docking mechanics have not really been changed in the years i've played this game, and need to be updated.sub-proposal 1: make dock timers a function of ship mass.case study: guy undocks a carrier, starts remote repping his friends while remaining within dock radius and parking the ship the moment he is put into a dangerous situation. the argument i've heard from ccp regarding a lot of things is that people are not \"committing to fights\" - that's why they nerfed warp core stabs, that's why they nerfed nanos, and should be why station-humping gets a bat to the face. it allows capital ships to hump the safety of neutral or friendly stations, assign fighters or control that power directly, while repping friendlies without serious fear of being killed, due to the large dock radius of most modern stations.while i do believe the repping someone should set an aggro flag, just as running a ganglink apparently does these days, that's not the point here. the point is that in the past, ships could be killed in the 30 sec undock time if the forces attacking had reasonable dps - since then? t2 has become more prevalent, rigs have been introduced, overheating, damage controls, etc - hp has gone up, directly up with ccp's intent to lengthen combat. and as a result, 30 seconds is no longer a sufficient time to kill someone if they knowingly undock into a hostile force.so, the proposal is to make larger ships wait longer before they are able to dock/re-dock, as they are harder to kill, and will make station games more risky.sub-proposal 2: knowledge of space surrounding the station, while in dock.now, i'm not a heartless bastard. some people honestly have no clue they're undocking into a waiting station camp - help these people out by giving the station a feature to show what ships are on grid outside of its dock port. this will allow them to know what awaits, and if they knowingly undock into it and die, no sympathy.this is quick, and dirty, so enhancements and refinements of these ideas are welcome. and if this isn't the only thread on this (as i'm sure its not), feel free to support both rather than getting uppity, more threads like this the better tbh."
"this would be a good option also. to fix the station games."
"proposal 1: good... fair enough.proposal 2: nowrong way to go about it... and would not make it any better.the only way you will have a favorable outcome is to have random multiple undock exit points.period... end of discussion... case closed. (feel free to suggest the \"kick im out\" at some km's idea s well)"
"i like the idea of the larger the ship the longer it takes to re-dock. that then can lead to the issue of the person just undocking his pod for a quick look then docking back up and changing ships. it's not soo much the pilots that undock and realize its a trap and dock back up that seem to be the issue its the ones that aggress/assist in your cease and as soon as they see the yellow reticule they cease all actions scoop drones and mop up the damage until they can dock that are the issue. it's getting really lame. we have encountered a few fights on a few stations. fights that had the potential to be good but as soon as two hostiles ships are popped they other 10 stop doing everything and dock resulting in only an extra 1-2 losses. if you choose to fight you should be forced to accept defeat and stand and fight not count to 30 and dock. again the random/multiple undock thing is a cool idea as long as there is kickout. whats really the point if the mechanic is still in play that you can just ctrl space and cut your engines count to 30 and dockup. give a 2km or so kickout at a random ejection spot. this also eliminates those pesky insta undock bookmarks. as it stands the majority of the empire fights are on stations. no one wants to fight on gates any more as it does not afford the same luxury of the 100% security after you have waited out your timer."
"if stations had opposite-sided entrances and exits there would be no problem. unfortunately that would require new station models, but would solve the problem quickly as you would have to circle the station completely or warp-off then warp-in to re-dock."
"not really.they don't use the exits realistically at all anyway."
"i have an alternate sub-proposal 2. wait till ambulation.in order to see outside, you have to leave your ship, and go to a viewing area/window/computer terminal to look outside.make it a pain in the ass, and i'll support it. if you can just constantly scan from in ship to see whos outside, it's nonsense. people would just stay docked forever.at least with characters needing to get out of ship, you can have some on foot espionage, with members of the camping corp loitering watching for the target to look outside. they can then relay when the target gets back in their ship etc."
"1/10 for calling it an exploit."
"you're terrible, get out."
"considering that over the last week caod posting has gone from being basically amusing to: now, let's establish something - we could let this go on for days and days and days. the common responce to caod critisism is \"don't read it then\". the sad fact is that caod is the only place on the eve forums where you can reliably find out what's going on in nullsec, and where the interesting people post. worse, this caod junk leaks out into the forums at large, with the people inside believing that posting similar tripe on other forums is also acceptable. (evidence: page 1 of eve general discussion) will the csm be talking over changes to caod with ccp? tl;dr version: [proposal] csm get their heads together with ccp to thrash out a better forum for alliance discussion. in the mean time, ccp lay the smacketh on caod and make it clear that the forum rules cannot be broken, even \"ic\"."
"very simply, a proper banstick for trolling and if it happens repeatedly give a permanent ban. also, have bans work for all accounts for that player. if you use an alt char on your alt account and do dumb stuff with it your main account also gets banned."
"theres been many discussions re this topici may as well support this one as well :)"
"the problem is not caod... the problem is every frakking idiot and there goon friends are so damn egotistical and prideful that they will post in any board and any other forum board without restraint or complaint.and until they stop playing games and get back to shooting each other in the wondeful world of eve.... it will never stop... moderation or not.i at one time respected goons for there tactical prowess and ability to get things going.... and then they started posting en-masse with there ego swelling to the size of a damn planet.at least darius is respectable... his alliance members however need a swift kick to the head.it is one thing to play the game to its fullest.... its another to be a bunch of egotistical asswipes with pride swelling to record heights.course the same could be said for alot of other teams.... the goons just happen to be the most popular one.no offense goons... you where better off scamming and grinning without posting 1000 times a day. : o )"
"i, too, think that ccp should read every single post and sit there contemplating if it's a troll or not."
"wait... do you mean \"why do you get a flag when you're helping an outlaw?\" because thats pretty self explanatory... and you dont get a flag when repping someone of \"low security\" unless they're an outlaw."
"even if the outlaw isn't currently flagged? even if you yourself are an outlaw? even if you warp to the middle of nowhere, out of range of any stellar object? the mechanic is broken."
"outlaws are flagged 24/7, thats why anyone can shoot them without consequene, just because the gates guns dont shoot at them doesnt mean they arent flagged."
"there's a difference between a global criminal flag and being -5 or lower. both allow you to be shot at anywhere at any time and currently both will flag anyone who tries to assist them. however it makes no sense that someone should receive a global criminal flag for assisting someone -5 or lower; assisting someone with a gcf yes, but not just because they are an outlaw.example: two pirates warp to a safespot, neither have sentry aggro. they both use local armor repairers and nothing happens. they both use remote armor repairers and voila, both have sentry aggro.dumb."
"so you dont think assisting a wanted outlaw warrants punishment? talk about the ultimate bait, outlaw sits on gate, waits for someone to fire, and his rr buddies show up to help him out."
"there's a difference between helping a relatively good pilot (positive sec status) and a criminal (negative status).your making this too hard.... take a step back and think about it."
"no, not really. given the amount of damage spread caused when you tank sentries with an rr gang, the sentries are merely an inconvenience and you can happily use a flasher as bait in this fashion without worrying about it, and this works perfectly because the person being attacked does not have sentry aggro themselves, reducing the amount of damage the original target takes.in short, as far as combat mechanics go this wouldn't be a game breaker to change."
"for anyone that does not think the current mechanic is dumb bear in mind right now if your an outlaw in a droneboat or carrier and you remote rep your own drones you take a sec hit and get a global crim resulting in sentry guns firing on you, now you cannot say that is not a screwed mechanic.fair enough if you rep an outlaw that is attacking someone getting global makes sense but one that is not doing anything wrong is silly unless you make outlaws constantly under sentry gun fire themselves."
"that should be reported as a bug.... not a messed up mechanic. : o )"
"i believe it has been and that the standard it is working as intended not a bug reply has been returned however i cannot confirm 100% as i have not filed bug rep myself"
"no, you really didn't - what you said was:one of the few ways that this statement makes logical sense is if you take the position that jump clones are an inherently bad feature of the game. there is some small scope for debate in that position however, so we look to what you said just nowhere you are saying that any reduction in the amount of time between jump clones is per force a bad thing, accepting as a statement of fact precisely that which we are trying to determine. there is little reason to form such an opinion straight away unless you didn't like jump clones in the first place.finally - you referred to the 24 hour cooldown as a penalty. an interesting choice of words as it implies rather succinctly that you consider the act of jump cloning something to be punished.all in all, it is clear from this evidence that you do not like the jump cloning mechanism at all - that you think that all travel should be done in a ship through space and thus subject to the dangers therein, and it is completely reasonable to take that view, as i said before, however, this is not the thread to air these views. i had rather thought that the framework of the proposal was clear enough, but evidently not - it is as follows:\"accepting that most travel in eve should be done in space, and acknowledging and accepting the existance of jump clones, is there a way of shortening the cooldown between jumps without jepardising the principle above\"with this as the point of discussion (as it always has been) you have touched on one thingit behooves you here to explain exactly how this change would be abused. what is it that people could do with a 12 hour cooldown that they could not do with a 24 hour one that would be considered an exploitthat is how you move the discussion forward, not with clumsy half sentences, a preponderance of ellipses and cheap abuse. if you have something constuctive to add here then feel free. otherwise you may as well not post for you'll get no further response from me."
"stop jumping every day or take one off. there this perceived problem of your is now fixed."
"your car works fine, except that if you travel more than 10 miles the wheel falls off and you need to put it back on. by your argument, your mechanic says\"stop driving more than 10 miles. there, this perceived problem of yours is now fixed\"as i've already said, it is the fact that i have to do that that is the problem. ignoring it doesn't make it go away."
"if you can't figure out out how lessening the cool down would be considered a risky and obviously abusive feature in game... you should change your name to stupid bob.i'm not going to take time to teach a child the art of game mechanics.like i said... you ask for an inch... you'll want a foot... then there will be no cool down period.. and everyone will be jumping all over hell without restraint.thereby removing the need to fly the old fashioned way.it's way to easy to get around as it is... stop being lazy and get off your ass and go play the game."
"anyone else agree with my quote?"
"locked.please do not cross-post.original thread is here."
"you don't think that more people might mine if the rewards were higher? also, once the price of trit rises a little above current levels, to 5+ isk, it starts to become much more profitable to import in bulk from 0.0 space, especially for people with access to jfs, mineral compression or jump bridge networks. i suspect that the global mineral supply is much more elastic than you might think."
"you facepalm why? there are trillions of people in the eve universe, many pirates, they make stuff, mission runners blow it up and take what little remains.outside of gameplay, it is good that the actions contribute to the economy instead of just getting bounties. i'd be all for > loot drops, less isk."
"hey guys,i'm gonna raise this very issue (an issue which played an important role in my csm platform) in the next csm meeting in about 8 hours. with the info from chronotis, i'm hoping to have enough csm support to raise this issue to the developers. i would like your help, though, in pushing this through by talking with your csm representatives in support of this issue.on the mining is boring note, we've been talking a lot about mining and how to make it more interesting with ccp in reykjavik, so hopefully we'll see it soon, though probably not during this csm session. they want mining to become more interesting too."
"try to get clear data from ccp on how much of that \"loot\" is made by:- ships sold under mineral prices and reprocessed;- compression items (i.e. items build in one location and reprocessed in another for ease of transportation);- npc sold items;- the same percentages show on the table from a) before the removal of npc sold shuttles and b) before the change of the pos modules that were the prymary source of tritanium before the shuttles. without the historic data that table has little meaning."
"t2 bpo owners have spend fair amount of time (i think it required some kind of grind to improve your chances) or resources (billions of isk) to gain those bpos. the lottery mechanics were stupid, but valid at those time.i have proposal for all the t2 bpo whiners:earn enough money, buy those bpos (they surely have a price-tag based on possible profit), and trash them. yaay! everyone is happy!and don't expect ccp to fix every \"problem\" for you, especially if it isn't a problem.edit: fixed english"
"edit:we need someone who understand the needs of the c&p posters in as csmit is my belief that captain pompous (you know you'll get in anyway tchell) is the right man for the job.he even encourged me to go on a diet.i post in c&p not because this just happend to be here and i edited it to look good, but because this is our home and from here we shall fight!!(originalbefore this gets locked.i've been busy but i really miss posting here and miss all the regualr guys. you know who you are.special shout out to captain pompus (a name made for deliberate effect...well done you))"
"ahoy pouponwhere have you been? it is like the night sky is missing the north star or mcdonalds fat people e: forgot to add \"thank you\" for my shout out, i've never had one before so you made my day"
"first in a le poupon threadalso to add so don't get wrong for only posting \"first\", i feel that the c&p community also missed you or some **** like that. captain pompus for next csm elections \o/edit: crap, the git beat me t first so... second in a le poupon thread"
"hyperaltfest itthow have you been poupon?"
"\o/thanks kirra! i will base my campaign on forum warriorage and mild ridicule of every type of eve player, i think. does that sound about right and how do i go about it (not wishing to hijack poupon's thread) :)"
"its all good to hijack.not long before the lock i doubt.i've been busy in oopei've acctualy been making serious posts.but then as long as i don;t say eve its a serious post down there.its not as fun there though. just thought. this thread is missing a nexus touch.i'd vote the captain to csm no doubt.edit: the fat people in mik ds. thats me."
"we'll try and work quickly thenserious business? i'll have to check it out after this stint in c&p =s rl rarely isan acerbic zing would not go amissty sir o7i meant it in a nice way :))"
"to become one of those csm thingeys you just need a passport and some people to vote you in i think. peoples votes can generally be bought with exotic dancers, must work cos jade constantine got voted in lol, and as for the passport, if you don't have one i am sure someone can get you a decent one for reasonable price on oope forums."
"then its settled. this thread is now a captain for csm thread.! brb editing op :ddammit its almost going to be a serious post."
"lol, sounds quite straightforward, thanks kirra :)to whit the passport situation, i have several but i will just keep trying them all on the icelandic authorities until i get one that fits and is to their liking (like those toys babies have with cut out holes that they have to push blocks through ^^)...and if jade constantine can be elected to the csm, let along become chairthing...well, there's hope for everybody i guess"
"poupon my friend lol, you are on a roll tonight :dc&p is not the same when one of the regulars goes awol :("
"ta muchly.seriously though. you'd probably get in csm quite easily."
"i think there's only one way to confirm this :))"
"ahem."
"mr. pompous is very mean, i don't think he deserves it"
"zing!you like it like that though don't you?you naughty naughty !"
"well you're here now ^^ bit late but we do what we can"
"i think i'd say i was quite mean, not very mean e: vote for me and i will make sure your tears are heard!"
"it's called pvp, maybe you've heard of it?"
"fixed my post."
"i trusted you and look what you did to me.now i can't trust anyone again. i will be voting someone else. at random cause they're all liars like you prolly"
"a vote for the captain is a vote against words like \"prolly\" i hope."
"much as i would love to vote for the captain, i honestly believe that tchell dahhn is the right person for the job.this is a completely unbiased opinion based solely on my own observations.however if the boss tchell steps down for any reason then the captain has my vote."
"i should totally run"
"ya as a matter of fact i have ;)) even more than that, i've actually participated in it!one time, i was battling this corp called angel. they had a load of ships that they just kept throwing at me - angel frigates, angel thrashers, angel seraphims ( i think these were the corp directors!) - but i blasted them to smithereens and salvaged up their corpses. it was awesome!"
"rest assured on that :)"
"a floating vote is still a vote, look for me come election time! :d"
"you should, but then i fear you'd be jumping on the c&p-lurker troll regular-as-csm-candidate bandwagon"
"shut up you worthless alt ***got"
"i will fight you"
"e: inadvertant sniper!"
"having read this....i'm sure that myself, or one of my colleagues will be looking for you sooner than that."
"very droll i need to activate my irony beacons, i think :d"
"ugh, i read the other post where i said you'd get my vote, before i read this.now i've read this one too, and you still get my vote.if there'll be exotic dancers, maybe i can vote for you with my multitude of alt accounts as well. we'll have to discuss that matter tho, i tend to vote for people with boobs."
"lolboobs can be arranged, \"votes for boobies shocker\""
"i'm certainly hopeful, given the stiff (heh) competition being proposed in this thread.you should. you'll lose, but hey. you should.yes, however, the 'floating vote' is for me.../me scratches his head, and considers what would happen if he filled his 'cabinet' with the likes of pompous, nexus and le poupon."
"what a crazy-but-it-might-just-work kind of idea!"
"i'm hurting."
"agree with the op. smack talk is great and they haven't yet invented curses that offend me, however, the eve forums have hit a tipping point and it's high time for the mods to step in and lay down the law. it's gotten so bad that virtually every thread on the forums gets hijacked and turned into a contest to see who can post the most snarky comments in the shortest period of time.there are some bright spots, of course. but there needs to be an increased official presence on the forums and ccp needs to make it known that this isn't the place to come for endless flame wars and rants filled with racial and sexual epitaphs. perhaps ccp needs to create one sub-forum for smack talk and silliness and let everyone know the rest of the forum is for serious eve discussions.people here love to heap scorn on the immaturity and stupidity of the communities of other mmos... well, it's time for ccp to take a more active role and help shape this community into something just a tad less juvenile.i've brought at least 4 new people to eve in the last month or so. i've taken the time to explain to them how deep and rewarding this game is, all the possibilities it has to offer, and how it is really unrivaled for serious multiplayer gaming. then they decide what i've told them sounds interesting enough to come to the official site and check it out, only to be instantly turned off by the ceaseless spectacle of stupidity on display here.if this keeps up, people on the wow forums are going to start saying \"go back to eve you whiny *****!\""
"ok first off covert cyno's in cynojammed sistems is a good ideea, but only black ops should be allowed to jump/bridge to it there.no point in having a cynojammed if it can be bypassed just by using a dedicated recon ship, that would make it useless.dedicated fuel bays is an epic ideea, its also necessary.now...about making other ships be able to be bridged, not only covops and recons...they could add a rig that would allow that.it wont be a major setup wrecker,it should cost relatively much, so it balances out.also, if im not mistaken, u can bridge blockade runners..if u want to run a succesful black ops mission, at least with the current mechanics, fill some br's with fuel, and take them with uz.secondly, the cov ops cloak is too much, recons and cov op frigates are very specialized, they give up dps and utility in order to fit the covops cloak, u simply can't have it all.lastly, in regards to dps and survivability..black ops aren't designed for all out pvp..they give away dps/locking time/bit of hit points in order to fill their specific role.is that role to niche?it sure is.should it be expanded?definately.but in regards of firepower, they should be less equipped than their t1 counterparts.to summarize: big bad fuel bay , ability to jjump and bridge to covert cynos in cynojammed sistems, and a expensive rig that would allow all non capital ships to be bridged.it would be rather cost prohibitive,due to fuel costs, but it would be possible,and it would a rather interesting mechanic.love stealth."
"increased fuel bay no longer necessary once t2 transports were allowed to use the covert jump portal."
"no. your reputation is the most valuable asset you can have in eve."
"it's not like it can use the dd without the most incredible concordokken ever.i don't like the precedent, but it's a seductive idea."
"i have to say yes to this. for me, it's things like this that raise eve way above any other game i've yet come across.oh and although i would never bother travelling to see the npc titan i would certainly pay amar a visit for this.favouritism? noreward for services above and beyond those expected of a player? why the hell not."
"supporting this thread. i love my drones and hate feeling like a second class eve player where my skills are sometimes seen as a liability in fleet engagements. for the cost of drones and how easily they are destroyed or lost through connection problems they should have more options.edit: also i can't stress enough how annoying it is to have 75mb bandwidth on ships like the myrm. flying the 2x heavy, 2x medium, and a light drone combo is inefficient compared to just flying 5 medium drones in almost every circumstance."
"all testing for the expansion seems to indicate that drones are very ineffective against sleepers. i know there is still testing and balancing going on - just wanted to say i'd really like it if drones would remain useful in sleeper space. i love that the sleepers will be smarter against drones. i just don't want the drones to so weak against them that drone boats are not viable in wormhole space."
"nag has the highest dps of all caps if set for gank. i think it's a good tradeoff for what the ship does. you don't want gank, train for another ship, it's the beauty of the game.*for pos shooting, it's totally ****, but for hot drops, it can be nice as hell depending on how you use it. ultimately, it's not the nag that needs changing, it's dreads, capitals, and all of their ****tyness that need changing in addition to pos warfare as a whole. if you want go by the logic in this thread though, everyone and their brother should be in a revelation and lets call it a day.moros drones are clumsy and removable, and blasters are just a joke the devs made up one day, phoenix missles are lol, there is no cruise version and it's cap is worse than watching paint dry, and nag cant do tank and gank well even with lots of skills to train. but the rev, best dps consistently, gank setup is near that of nag. cap recharge is just sexy, and it's tank makes pos cry. not to mention it rox with pulse or beam setups. so really, lets just all fly revs and quit the emo sessions please."
"oh thank god, for a second there i thought yaay supported my thread and i was going to try and get it deleted before anyone saw."
"this game has turned cookie cutter enough, it doesn't need to be more. the phoenix is **** yet half of goons fly those right? pl at least got that one right when they banned them."
"good enough. :)"
"you lost me"
"if we give up then nothing will happen. i for one will keep posting till they change the damn thing or delete the post. then i will start another. i cant let getting ignored make me give up. or at the very least grow some balls and say screw you guys its not changing."
"somewhere in the lostness, i pointed out the obsurdity of the whines. the ship does what it does, like it or hate it. if it does get a boost, i think the only viable one is to tweak capital missle damage. short of hitting a slow flying yet oddly stationary brick wall, capital missiles are fubar."
"so we can go from macro mining to macro pos deployment? whats next?"
"i take it you have you have never deployed an entire pos?the waiting to manually have to give all the commands to the pos is a very dull process. queuing would help greatly as you can at least go and do something else in eve in the mean time while not having to take your pos by the hand to tell it explicitly what to do like it has some kind of short attention span.allow me to give you a small example of it currently is:you: yes hello i have plans to anchor and online a corporate hangar.pos: well i think i could anchor it for you but onlining it right after that? well i don't know, ask me after i anchored it.12 minutes later (you didn't want to stare at the screen all the time so you went to make a cup of coffee etc.).you: have you started onlining my corporate hangar array yet?pos: well no you didn't ask me to do it so i have been staring at that piece of space which seems just a little more black than the other pieces of space.you: well ok online the corporate hangar array for me then and make it snappy.pos: sure wait another 10 minutes and then give me a new order for a new structure.you: can't i just tell you where to anchor and online stuff and be done with it?pos: no your going to have to do this a million times more because i just cant remember more than one thing.and how i feel it should be.you: i have plans to setup 4 silos and a reactor could you anchor and online them for me if you show me where i want to put them?pos: sure!"
"regardless of the supports.. it will never fly.there are too many holes in your idea that could be abused.i suggest scrapping the idea and starting over.right idea... wrong implementation.some of the holes: stacking jobs would make dropping pos's very easy to do in 0.0 which cause pos seige warfare a total hell.thats just the tip of the iceberg."
"i feel this would change almost nothing other than make it more practical for people operating/deploying posses. if i really want to spam posses i just fly around a system and anchor 4 posses at the same time now. its no like i got not time for that but i also think that there should of course be a maximum time limit on the que or a maximum amount of jobs you can stack to not make it completely automatic.and who says you cant kill these unmanned posses last time i heard they only had 50% shield when they were deployed"
"i recently put up a pos for the first time.i swear the process was designed by jack thompson. as a gaming experience it was like buying what you think is system shock ii, only to find there's a copy of daikatana in the box.anything that would allow you to configure the pos, then set it to online, would be welcome. i appreciate the need to make the process lengthy, to allow a period of vulnerability. i don't appreciate having to sit and watch a clock for several hours, not to mention wait several minutes if i make a mistake."
"if we put aside that sov claiming needs to be detached from poses and moons, this is the thing i would like to see implemented asap. anyone who was puting up cynojammer or jump bridge tower, or even plain deathstar knows how painfull pos anchor/online mechanics is. it is one of the biggest timesinks in eve.anyway i will raise this issue for the next csm meeting."
"pos onlining is maddeningly boring. the only reason that this mechanic has any place in the game is to add some time for countermeasures in the pos for sov role. as such, if sov is changed away from moons then we should just remove pos timers or at least do this."
"what does responsible pvp mean? cold harsh universe, if you undock you could die, you get griefed, move somewhere else, pay the ransom do whatever, or get tough and join a real corp..."
"op needs to gb2wow"
"nothing wrong with the mechanic, just the reasons for the wars. i doubt that ccp had \"opportunity to get easy kills\" in mind when they came up with the system, more likely corps warring over access to resources. that said, ccp only have them selves to blame for the present situation since the make hisec resources so ridiculously plentiful that industrial corps have no need to fight each other, leaving the mechanic in the hands of those looking for some pew pew in hisec. if resources were harder to come by, maybe some of those looking to pew pew would find a home in a pvp wing of an indy corp as it fought over a good system. a load of corps competing with each other by any means (trade/industry/war) would be far more realistic that the absurd fragmentaion into pure griefing and pure carebear corps we have in hisec now..."
"surely all you would need is the ability to put courier bundles into a (different) courier bundle, with all the payment/collateral being manually tracked?ie.1. customer contracts to ltl corp2. corp recontracts to pickup driver to bring to hub (driver pays collateral to corp -> corp has same amount of money as before, driver gets paid for the journey he makes)3. corp makes daily (or w/e) hub -> hub contract containing lots of little contracts (other driver pays total collateral, gets paid total rate4. corp recontracts to delivery driver (same deal as above)5. corp completes original contract, obtains moniesmight be worth checking if this can already be done, and if it cant, it should! supported"
"finally... an intelligent idea.collateral makes me cringe... as always <thumbs freighter>but this might make life a little more bearable."
"in real life, shipping prices are based primarily on distance and volume, and for the most part have absolutely nothing to do with the value of the goods being shipped. this is because carriers in real life have insurance of course, so that they don't have to have the cash money on hand to cover potential losses. even then though, the insurance company doesn't pay some sort of collateral for the shipment. they only pay out in the event of a loss.i support this idea. i don't think it is the answer to all our shipping problems in eve, but i support it all the same. there's so much more that needs to be done to improve shipping though. primarily, i think we need to move as far away from the current collateral system as is possible. here's some further reading.courier system and transporting your goods (interbus) (shameless plug)decentralize trade (post by marcus gideon)hiring npc haulers (you escort them)consolidation toolinterbus solution[proposal] ccp finish interbus transport systemyou need to try to get the courier system workablecsm - ccp meeting 001 - 0019 contract improvements"
"courier packages can already be stacked one layer deep as long as none of them contain unpackaged ships or other containers; it would be neat to have a better interface for it, though."
"er...wtf good would that do if you are almost dying anyway ?? i suppose you could enjoy the flashy red disco in yer ov as you slowly died./me looks for sister sledge record"
"bump."
"in theory, i agree with everything you say. but with dictors being dictors, i don't know how you make the trade off better unless that ship get's changed too. over night, bs speeds dropped by 2-400m/s, so it's only fair they got a boost to agility along with every other ship out there. agility is fubar right now, but then again, so are interdictors 1 stop wonders and bountifulness. i still long for the days before dictor spheres when support actually tackled stuff n stuff."
"nothing wrong with dictors, they work great within eve - even without the messed up agility of all ships. and we absolutely cannot afford to mess with dictors while the locking/agility issue remains. and it will remain for years, as ccp would not go back to fix something they broke on purpose. not until people forget itto help deal with ccp ego, we could attack this problem in a different way:lets focus on optimizing eve client to reduce the lag in this areas:1) overview lag: when ship decloaks and starts to warp off, there's a small delay to the time it appears in your overview2) module activation lag: once a successful lock on target is achieved, there's still a small delay in time your modules take effect on target, even if they are \"primed\" - blinking.with successful optimization of those areas, we can possibly improve lock speeds by 1 second - which would have significant positive impact on tacking of smaller ships - frigs and cruisers."
"as per the discovery detailed here, and the quotes therein including:please vote here with your support to permanently remove this from the ideas board of eve. may it never be implemented."
"i support this never being implimented. there should be no combat without risk."
"no fake pvp allowed, imo"
"supported. the eve server was right to reject this horrible idea."
"nevah!"
"there are definitely more important (to us, players) things ccp could do with that time.first nerf local and redesign pos sov. and tweak certain modules and ships to make the game seem less bland and more edgy."
"i'm sure you, op, have read on the forums how the orca is being used my neg. sec. status pirates. they pod into high sec fly to an orca in a ss board their ships that are inside and away from sentry guns and gank high sec miners haven't you? and i bet it brought a smile to your face. yes? one could argue that the intended use of the orca was not for this but it can be used in this way. so what miners can mine straight into it. now you have to work a little at finding miners w/o an orca or find a new way of earning isk. sorry but you're pain i do not have pitty for. i love tears..."
"a) post with your mainb) you assume things as (just as most people) you polarize issues based on how your percieve a certain person, instead of keeping to facts and logic. in fact i do not think (and have posted on that as such) that outlaws should somehow be able to negate the downside of being an outlaw, the \"normal use of high sec\". if people decide that going outlaw is cool or they accept the downside of doing low sec pewpew (or suiciding) then they should not be able to circumvent the results of that.as i see it concord should simply follow you around if you're flying a ship, following you till you come out of warp and attack as only concord can do it. no silly faction police crap."
"the bottom line is your complaint is irrelevant tzar'rim. the point of a corporate hangar array on a ship is so people can directly access corp assets in space. the fact that people use it to directly dump ore while mining is 'smart', just liike can-flipping is 'smart'.the problem you see is that when people work intelligently, they are '100% safe' because you don't have an overly easy method (can flipping) of getting them prepped to kill easily.in your op you say putting effort in should make people safe but not 100% safe, yet you refuse to acknowledge the fact that using secure containers already provided this. orcas (and all other ships with a corp hangar array), simply assist in a more convenient fashion.in the case of the orca, it is doing exactly what it was created to do, be a mining assistance platform. do you thing that corp hangar array wouldn't be there if ccp didn't intend for it to be used?"
"your boo-hoo-hoo tears fuel both my hulk and my orca.thank you."
"finally a normal arguement, written in a normal way.secure containers are 100% safe, that is why ccp refused to increase them in size compared to normal cans. they are safe at the cost of size restrictions, having to be anchored and having anchoring restrictions (5km range). so ccp gave someone the option of being safe at the cost of it taking more effort. which is exactly as it should be, i have no problems with that at all. if someone puts in the effort to secure his assets at the cost of efficiency then he gets to reap the rewards.now we go to the orca. it has a mining bonus which helps tremendously, that's good. it gets the tractor bonuses which just makes sense, that's also good. it gets a huge cargo hold and the hangar allows for storage of a bunch ships in case the miners need to defend their assets. the ship fills it's intended role to optimise and increase efficiency for miners, and (normally) due to the tractor beam stuff it increases the security of their assets. but, adding to all the bonuses of efficiency, size etc it also provides a 100% secure system? that's too much.that would be the same as saying that someone who doesn't put in the effort to make sure his t2 hauler/freighter gets ganked by using scouts or effort and some thinking should somehow get a free 'get out of jail' card by adding immunity to being locked, or scrammed or whatever. or someone who bought himself a marauder instead of a normal bs can't be locked, killed or jammed, just because on top of the other bonuses the extra cost should make him fully immune. it just doesn't make sense in this eve world.stating that \"people just make smart use of the options they have\" is true but that didn't stop ccp from saying that carriers shouldn't be used as haulers, and thus added restrictions to them. or them finally realising that nanoing needed to be contained. if something is too good it needs to be changed, and providing on top of a whole bunch of other bonuses a 100% safe option is overpowered."
"what about mining and flying back to station to drop it off?"
"it increases security at the cost of effiency and effort, thus there's no problem with it."
"not suported...as the old saying for salge thingits a feature..war dec the orca pilot and stop wining"
"an orca is not 100% safe in high sec. it can be suicide attacked.in response to the desire for larger containers ccp decided to give the community the orca. you forget the original containers were released when there were no barges just laser equipped cruisers/battleships as the top mining ships.rather than release larger sc's they released the orca which is a fleet ship increasing the multi-player aspect of mining (even if many do it with alts). it's not a ship most can get into real quick unless they were already trained up for fleet boosting with mining foreman while piloting a hulk. you have at least 120-180 days for most starting characters (current not expansion) to even be functional in the orca.it's expensive, balanced out now to about half a billion isk or so for the hull. close enough to a freighter in cost when outfitted. most small operations will not be able to afford one, and will just cargo rig hulks... or anchor a gsc for transfer into a hauler on station (resulting in the same security as the orca...)you just have to hunt more and farther, or resort to options you choose not to use.look on the bright side, your style of play was one of the reasons ccp released the orca. you changed eve online, just not in the way you wanted it to evolve."
"a bit like being a \"pirate\" in an npc corp you mean?if people are using a 500m isk ship as a giant secure container, that's their right. 500m isk is a an expensive cargo can."
"would make a nice roleplay added feature..personally i would like this added to an overhaul of the station functions.not the features but the underlying mechanics.. so npc goods offered and demanded was linked together. so players could basically provide different types of goods to make the station create other types of goods..high sec concord station demanding militants to increase/maintain security status.demands of tourists to raise prices on luxury goods etc..there are so many items that could be linked in ways to promote more content..if linked with an import export order function it could also make it easy for ccp to spawn these demands by some simple scripting from a type of rules tables.."
"anything that makes the world richer and increases the amount of professions, i'm all for.i'm hoping for a method to turn militants into ferrogel."
"yes, yes, yes, for the love of gods, yes."
"why are you bringing the klan into this ??"
"whilst i'm sympathetic to your point, the eve populace is dominated by white heterosexual males, aged 18-40.i'm afraid that they fear that they'll be even further marginalised by being asked to treat people of a different sexual/racial/religious orientation with a modicum of tolerance.it's already so hard to be a white male in the western world already, you see. they need to fight oppression and express themselves by making childish jokes about men having sex. it's an important part of the latent self-expression."
"tolerance isn't acceptance dipstick. it is just the act of allowing something to take place.i can think that guys shoving their genitalia up each others digestive tracts is funny whether you like it or not.all i have to do to be tolerant is not try to stop it, and i don't. so by all means continue. whining here won't get you any high fives or status. just stop bumping this nonsense."
"i can bump whatever or whoever i like. but i thought your focus on the mechanics of anal sex was quite enlightening as to your personal feelings on the matter."
"i don't appreciate your racist joke... i demand to have you banned."
"op, i'd flame you for being thin skinned, but i'm sure you'd find a way to spin it as a hate crime.suffice to say, not everyone who disagrees with you is discriminating against you. you do not have the right to never be offended."
"^^ this. in flaming letters 10 feet high.what really amuses me about the whole discussion is it's all freedom of expression this and freedom to choose that. unless of course \"they\" don't agree with your choices or your expression, in which case it's \"bad\".and that goes for both sides. frankly, best thing that could happen to this thread is for it to be locked."
"bloody top idea..../signed"
"t1 mini-freighter?"
"bcs are my favorite ship class, unfortunately they don't have anything near the variety of say cruisers or battleships. +1 for more bcs.also: faction bcs."
"the upcoming apocrypha expansion pack & its new ai will lead to massive changes : as drones will be more often targeted, gallentaeans players will have to rely on blasters & railguns . . .which are just . . . messed ? ? ?so it seems pve will have sense only for caldari/amarr, even maybe minnmatarr.ccp do hate us."
"ok, i posted on this subject before but i want to make a new point:i have lots of pvp experience fighting in close range battleships and my weapons of choice are blasters, acs, mega pulsegiven that, i can fight effectively using all of those weapons. i would not go as far as to say that \"blasters are ineffective\". however, it is clear to me that blasters do not offer any significant advantages over mega pulse. autocannons are also rather so-so but at least they are easy to fit. blasters have fitting problems especially with cpu - which would be ok if they really had some major advantages.right now, properly fit close range bs of different factions perform about same - with mega pulse having slight advantage with the superior optimal and easier fitting to support armor tank. autocannons seem rather bland. i guess ccp would call it balance - all ships performing about same way. but what i want is greater variety. blasters are supposed to be the most damaging weapons that are optimized for close range combat. that is simply not so when compared to performance of other weapons. blasters have no clear advantages, they are just like other guns.yes, i see how this is balanced, but it is a boring form of balance. and frankly, mega pulse is still better - for pure tank and gank.why can't we have more clear cut differences between different fighting styles?"
"we really need ccp to rethink corp access and affiliation.there really isnt any reason why we should not be able to work for more than one corp.remove the 24 hours limit thing, and let it only apply for actual un-affiliations.especially in these days where administering and leading corps is needed, it could really be usefull..make it possible to shift corps instantly, if you are already affiliated.. the max number of corps joined could be skillbased, or totally open would be preferred though.."
"you must be on drugs or something."
"^^^sadly 99.99% of the ideas that the op post here and in other parts of the eve-o forums make be believe that drugs are involved."
"someone wants to instantly corp hop to avoid war decs.no and gtfo."
"well sort of self evident to the idea that you couldnt shift corp and avoid a wardec..your wardec would follow you like your involvement in the corp.."
"hello all, this might already have been suggested, but im gonna post it anyways.why not make a ship that can create a cloak bubble around it. it would have to be able to cloak for a limited amount of time. this would definately result in some interesting warfare tactics."
"very astute.the point is that we can and do survive without such omniscience, that the game suffers for it, while in it's absence elsewhere nothing does.not that it hurts me. i'll go on checking to see if my enemies are around and plan my battles around the online or offline status of \"buddies\", be they at war with me or pirates."
"i would prefer, if these intel tools, especially concerning the buddy list, would be removed on an optional basis. yes, it is nice for my buddies and useful for my enemies to know exactly when i am online and when i am not. i should still have the option to have some privacy and i do have that in every kind of social application i have ever used.i would highly appreciate if i had the option to set myself to:\"only show online status to people on my buddy list\"\"only show online status to people in my alliance\"\"only show online status to people in my corp\"\"only show online status to people in same channel as me\"\"don't show my online status to anyone\""
"this."
"although i wasn't origninally in favor of changing anything about it, after all, it is the future and we have ships 11 miles long but we can't know who's in the same system as us? but this is a good idea, allowing for a little bit of privacy."
"the new effect doesn't give the feeling of traveling fast like the current one does so i do prefer the current.i was delighted to find the screen judder removed though."
"i do like the current one more, but i mean, it's an effect. no mechanics have changed because of this, its just how something looks."
"the only thing i miss is the sonic-boom noise that used to be there. but then, there was no sound at all a few days ago, so it's hard to say what the final product will look like."
"i like the looks of all the other effects i saw in that video very much except the new warp.the new warp effect without that \"halo\" of visibility in the direction you're going surrounded by blurred sides really made you feel you were travelling. if possible i would love ccp to keep that."
"if it needs some additional effects ...i wouldn't mind what you see in this intro of freelancer"
"/signedthe new effect in its current form is hideous. if you think that looks good then i really think there is something wrong with you. that screenshot is merely the offshoot of other people warping, its impossible to see whats going on with just a couple of warps on grid as in the picture, let alone the amount warp ins you would see at a busy trade hub. i am less than 5km from the station and yet i can barely see it.i really suggest that anyone who hasn't seen the effect for themselves do so before commenting.the old one is a classic effect that looks great, its is not over the top and all pseudo sci-fi. the old effect gives a great sense of speed and that you are actually warping, its fits what is expected to happened when you go into warp, to my mind at least. its something that when i first played eve made me go, \"damn thats cool\". i really just cant see that with the new effect"
"i think it is very relevant to consider this one in ref to later ambulation.why not make a special character transport contract where you basically gets dropped at a location of the transporting ship?so you could pay for safe passage, or hitch rides free.. a small thing would be balancing that you arent actually on the ship, and you might do stuff while someone is transporting you.. an easy solution would be that you would enter a ship that could not fly (transport cubicle) and a twin was carried by the contract holder. so in effect while in the cubicle you might have to hang outside the station waiting till completion.. of the trip..naturally the better way would be to actually be able to be transported on any ship while in your pod. (best solution)add tractors ability to target and pull pods and you have the ransom game increased to..scoop to cargo.. (for this removing yourself from cargo should not be possible)it would be rather exciting to get tourism in the game this way.."
"the details need work. support for the general hitchhiking idea."
"most of what you said didn't quite make sense, tbh....but i like the idea. maybe paying someone to transport a jump clone? after they moved it you can jump."
"not anymore, looks like it won't be making into march expansion."
"op's points 1 and 4 supported, 2 would be a bit too much and 3 is a bit meh one way or the other."
"i like the first proposal, not s fan of the second one especially with ambulation around the corner. besides, if people can't be bothered to check local and/or can't be bothered to put in teamwork effort to provide intel then that's their problem."
"well i have to give this rather nice idea a little addition..i am all for more game around space and a really neat way is to do something like op mentioned..i think dock and undock should be added to the autopilot.. wait hear me out.. but when you undock you cannot warp close to station you have to wait till you clear a bubble sized by some factor like station security etc..the campers then needs to wait till the ship clears the vicinity of the station. thus you can undock to see if someone is out there, unless they are cloaked, and if they are you have to redock and with the timelimit.. with this stations could be camped a bit more like gates..well something along those lines atleast.."
"oh that'll be why they have specifically stated over and over again that it is a. working as intended and was b. not meant to be yet more income for mrs.....because they hadn't actually noticed it..."
"emphatically agreeing with the op. salvage theft is a horrible exploit and should be stamped out as soon as possible."
"sure why not, make the game easier, no problem, makes it easier for killing you if you can get into bigger more expensive ships faster and you think you know what you are doing...people think that if they have alot of isk or sp earlier on that the game will be easier for them... that if they had 20mil moar sp they wouldn't have gotten pwn'd, or probed out or lost their ratting raven to a quick gank squad.... anything to overtly make this game easier for the masses is really not in their best interest... the game is complicated, and you are going to spend alot of time failing in the first couple months before you get ur feet underneath you. but if this combat simulator buisness is true, i feel like it will turn into wow so why not use isk, people just don't get it"
"i feel like voting yes just to show my approval of this wonderful idea and the forum which which it was made possible. 3 chears for the epicness of this mans mind. and we are all smarter for having read this post."
"no"
"no....just in case you missed it"
"as other people have already stated, you can buy skillpoints with isk/real cash already.it's called the character bazaar. stop by there sometime."
"no.never."
"this bad idea has been hashed and rehashed. and again its a resounding \"no, are you f**king stupid?\"plus in a way we do pay for sp by purchasing implants. the more sp per hour the more you have to pay for the better implant."
"not supported, and you should be podded back to a pre-alpha clone for suggesting it. one you can't buy your way out of."
"post here your screenies so ccp can ban them or at least do something painfull.macro miners"
"good god, don't start disuading egotistical tools from posting in caod.that's an idea up there with sealing your drains because of the smell. i'd rather everywhere else didn't stink of **** as well."
"indeed, the situation where a pirate repairs their own drones/fighters and gets a gcf isn't considered a bug.this is a dumb mechanic with no real justification for it's function and an ideal topic for the csm to raise."
"well, i brought up the topic, and my fellow csm members shot it down immediately. they voted 8 against before i could even finish my proposal, so i followed suit. i do like the idea, but apparently the major alliances do not."
"as things are we have a non working bounty system and a rather hyper aggressive killrights system..a whole new gameplay and fixed issues would be the result if the following was added.killrights was based on witnessed aggression only. so targeting/shooting/destroying and killing was 4 different actions. if you got targeted you got a right to target back, if killed to kill in return. the rights would go on the character sheet and be removable like bookmarks and possible to give and trade with other players. the time a right like this was active would be based on type and security of the system observed in. so in 1.0 a whole month, in yellow a week, in red 24 hours and in 0,0 not relevant, because not witnessed.the idea is that the victim gains an advantage to use against the aggressor in the future. maybe someone would like to be able to later attack or target etc this offender without concord interference. this only goes in non patroled space like the belts, concord should never accept any aggression near gates, unless its wars. near stations there isnt any concord unless its a concord stations naturally, so this is unpatroled spaces like the asteroid fields.the reason for such a system is to make players govern more justice. i such a system you could basically remove security rates and let all pilots roam in high sec. those with low security rating should only have the disadvantage of not being able to dock on stations. naturally if they aggress without killrights they are attacked by concord.bounty system needs to simply be based on standing. so the person claiming a bounty would only get percentage based on standing from the issuer. so if a bounty is composed by say 10 people or corps the individual standings would decide the resulting payout. standing 10 is all and standing 0 would be skillbased and be taken equally from each bounty provider percentage based. so if you destroy a ship your skill and the ship types value would decide the payout. thus the result would be that you could still clear your bounty theoretically but only by sacrificing an extremely valued ship, and only if the ship exceeded the value of the bounty.such a system would improve player to player standing usage and social interaction. the profession bounty hunter would mean something, and the bounty hunters would need to get killrights to be able to aggress in secure space. thus becoming a sort of player police.."
"an anti-cheat team of employees that can be petitioned by in-game players to see if a particular player is using a macro or not. macro-mining is becoming extremely common, especially in high-sec, and it wouldn't be hard for ccp to determine who is a macro and who isn't if they looked at the accused players' habits with their own eyes."
"is macromining really on the rise again? last time i checked the minerals price index, it didn't look much like it. unless the macrominers stopped mining veldspar."
"there was a timing strength on targetting suggested somewhere that would solve a lot of macroing..target risk being lost (coherency loss) this based on target size, target speed and number of active players targeting..the effect would be that macroing would be a bit difficult..also if the coherence reduction was really tough on multiple targeters it would also change things a bit on some situations in combat..in mechanics it would be simple to add this to roids.. simply have them invisibly use target scrambling, might work?"
"sorry been looking for it, i'd swear i've seen it said by someone at ccp, but i cant find the post, so i guess what i said has to be disregarded. hate it when that happens."
"i have seen the post at least once... but i don't recall where.all i know is that ccp didn't intend jump clones to do what they are doing due to the nature of jump bridges... the titans jump drive...and a few other nuances."
"aww, poo!-i- wanted to bring up the \"hello kitty\" kestral of doom!*pouts*"
"if it was up to me scomi i would absolutely add the \"hello kitty kestrel of doom\" to eve and i would only allow you to have one! any additional lag would be more than compensated by the additional ice cream sundaes i know you would be sharing with our alliance! :-)issler"
"i have very little that i think needs to change, i like the game pretty much the way it is. because i'm part of a corp that sets goals and then tries to achieve them i don't need eve to put additional things in to entertain me. however since i wouldn't want you to think i was avoiding your question...pos's shouldn't shoot alliance mates if their sec status is lower than what the pos is set to shoot. you can check the box to allow alliance mates in but if they fly outside the shields they can be shot.facwar should be sustainable for small ship pilots (frigate and destroyers). putting bounties on rats in complexes could help with this if they have bounties inline with low sec rats.those are the only things that come to mind right now that need addressing."
"i've read through your comments and once again it's like a bunch of words that don't add up to anything. so if you'd like to make a point or ask me a question go ahead... otherwise i don't see anything to respond to here."
"you can go for days critiquing others ideas, and this is all that comes to mind when you're asked to be constructive? i am disappointed in you niskin.being an avid reader of csm dealings, i thought you could at least attempt to give some credit to other professions in eve.for example, drone ai and disconnect issues with recalling drones would be a large boon to many players. the problem with probes and docking/disconnects (which is now going to be fixed in the next expansion with a whole new system). what about being able to import premade fits onto ships using the fitting screen? is that also an unneccessary addition to eve? would you prefer that ccp just retire now, maintain the game only and never improve?you are more than willing to offer excessive criticism of others, but very much lacking in your own content. give constructive criticism or stop trolling here.i'll help you out. this is what a discussion looks like, try to emulate it in future responses and you'll be much better received."
"what i said is still true. sure maybe there are some new shader options that allow for minor variations in what is rendered but that's a far cry from custom ship paint jobs. it's unlikely that alliance and corp logos are preloaded on the client which means they would have to do so for any pilots in system before you hit a point where they could render any ships.in case you didn't notice ccp is already behind the gun on performance. they did this whole \"need for speed\" initiative to reduce lag which was badly needed. now that they've made some good progress on it the last thing they need is something that takes them in the other direction.what eve needs is more pilots taking risks and more corps setting goals and trying to achieve them. if you need custom paint on your ship to motivate you to achieve something then there is a problem. if there are unused portions of space and you see that as a problem then move there and occupy them. solve the problem yourself, the game allows for it, it's how the game works."
"drone ai has been improved since i started playing and i don't have a problem with how it works now. i've never had or heard of a disconnect problems with recalling drones.i've never had a problem with the probe system, nor have i had or heard of disconnect problems from probing. in fact last i heard the system on test is worse than the current system. i'll wait for final release to judge it though.yes it's unnecessary, although it wouldn't hurt anything either. i don't care if they put it in or not, as long as it doesn't break or slow down anything else.just because i have criticisms doesn't mean i should have counter suggestions. i think ccp has done just fine with this game prior to the csm and while some useful changes could come from the csm it's more likely that a bunch of whiners will just toss pointless requests at them and some will get through. so maybe my suggestion would be this, just because somebody thought of it doesn't mean it should be implemented. to your final comment about facwar, if ccp wants people to keep doing it then they should do things to keep people from needing to stop doing it. lag and cost are both issues there but not always issues for the same fw pilots. i think both are important and since they are already looking at the lag i'd say there's no reason to switch priorities."
"i am going to tl;dr this for you niskin.you are a hypocrite. your \"statements\" change from one post to the next. this is the point some of us are trying to make here.somewhere a bridge misses it's troll dearly."
"players who are disconnected are unable to regain control of drones without approaching each drone individually, which can be difficult to manage and very time consuming (quite needlessly) for say a mining barge, amid asteroids (or so i've heard). the same follows for losing control of scanning probes which can be quite time consuming to place (and expensive) which were needlessly lost before the new system on sisi was introduced (provided it works as intended when it hits tranq.). i've heard many positive reviews of the system, and most complaints are from bugs which are being resolved, although we both know there will always be those people who resist change.so anything that can save you time and optimize the game is superfluous? would you prefer if eve were a text based game? no lag! seriously though, arguing that we should only change what is \"necessary\" is arguing that eve is by design perfect and all that's left is a few bugs. judging by the fact that there are still expansions being released, i think ccp would disagree with you. ccp created this game, and i'm sure they're perfectly capable of judging their players desires and ... catering to those desires. if this were not the case we would not be receiving expansions, your alliance pos mechanic would never be changed (come on ccp!) and eve would not be in its current state of growth and prosperity.i believe you just supported the idea of catering to the players needs and desires. you don't need an incentive to keep fighting in a pointless war if that is your goal, right? also, you do need counter criticisms and ideas, otherwise you're just another one of the mindless sheep of eve."
"wow anyone who disagrees with this is completely wrong wrong wrong! learning skills are completly pointless, everyone is saying training learning skills is a \"choice\"... thats like saying you could run out of the way of a bus about to run you over but you also have a \"choice\" to crawl out of the way of the bus thats about to run you over.yah i guess it is still a \"choice\" but its obvious to most people which one you would \"choose\".i don't know about you but i play mmo's over the long term... i mean thats the whole appeal about mmo's is their replay value. so when i made my first character and found out about learning skills i thought \"oh.... well i guess i will train all my learning skills up so that i can train everything else twice as fast\" but in the back of my head i was saying.... \"well this is really stupid why do these skills even exist in the first place if they are basically required by anyone that plans to play for more than a month\". hey ccp? you would like players to play for more than a month right?and as far as re-imbursing players who already trained learning skills. just calculate how much sp they have trained in learning skills and give them a 2x sp rate until they have earned that back. easy and clean. any intelligent person can plainly see learning skills are pointless. i mean i had to literally think about it for 2 seconds to know this... there is no valid argument against removing learning skills."
"i think i should run. the great and legendary karbacca shall correct these evil doing \"devs\" as they are so-called. justice will be swift and carebear tears will flow fast. rejoice. for very bad things are about to happen.the great and legendary karbacca has spoken./thread."
"the bandwagon is just pulling out of town... :d"
"you knew it was true but you just didnt want to admit it....i told you it would end in tears"
"the great and legendary karbacca's wrath shall smite mightily down upon those whom do not join the bandwagon. he is just, and he is merciless. watch your tounge wisely, the great and legendary karbacca spares no one.the great and legendary karbacca has spoken./thread"
"hey lol, poupon started this doggy rollin', rollin' rollin' rolin'"
"my bad.tchells advisory during csmstill going to vote for pompous."
"gotta love c&p posters"
"not really going to run, seriously how would i explain to people irl\"hey guys im going to iceland to talk about internet spaceships in a very serious business manner.\"i would just get some funny looks imho"
"lol, good find :) i love yes, minister but had never thought it applicable to eve politicking :d"
"do they pay your airfare out to icyland?"
"they used to, but with recession looming they just send mitnal to pod you. a few minutes later you wake up in a maintenance closet in rekyavik.incidentally this explains a lot about the current csm, plainly not everyone has updated clones."
"that makes a lot of sense lol...in both ways :)"
"just tell them you saw a really hot avatar and you think she might be there.they'll understand."
"i might even consider to candidate myself for csm after this one"
"is this a play on how csms are little more than the cleaning staff?"
"i think the csm are unequivocally ccp's cleaning staff, these days"
"funnily enough, ccp should be licking the csms boots and kiss their asses while they dig through logs to see wtf gm's do ingame really. or, at least, that's what ccp promised us when they got this crazy csm-idea.ironic, it's now rather a show for the galleries. mmo \"democracy\" is more like a demo-crazy, and csm have to eat the sc****s off the ccp table while ccp chestbeats about this system in international media. it reminds me of something....the united nations!"
"don't knock the un, nobody does pointless existance like the un does pointless existance.not being bound to any laws under the geneva conventions is a plus though.want to **** and murder? join the un and go to war!!....better yet vote pompous in the next csm electionseven if you don't want to **** and murdervote pompous in the next csm elections"
"it's true, no one does useless existence except...the league of nationswtg on manchuria, btw guys if i get in i will guarantee to uphold the values we hold so dear in c&p and i will not rest until they have been spread across the whole eve-o forumsty for your encouragement - without your initial suggestion none of this funtime would have been possible!"
"i will run too. c&p seems to have changed a little. you need people to see this change and move with the flow. to go over the apex and try to see beyond it.and yes, i am talking utter trash. it is what i am good at.a vote for me is a vote for liberalism and freedom. my version, anyway."
"the bandwagon has started, just remember team poupous got there first anyway, more candidates can only be good, and whilst we might disagree on matters of ideology i hope and pray we are all united in bring the spirit of c&p to the rest of the forums :)"
"page 3 ftw"
"miss.a-3?"
"i hate it when things go wrongthings will go right under me"
"hit my destroyer"
"you still got my vote, dontcha worry baeb."
"\o/i was thinking of having as a campaign banner a montage of the avatars of \"famous\" c and p peeps. any thoughts ? :)"
"how about a hangman-wordgame?"
"would be good.your sig works as a good slogangreen and blue for colours?"
"that sounds like a good c-c-c-combo!slogan is set, then.now i just need to train artistry to i and get creative"
"i would but i don't know how to make an ascii hangman without it collapsing after i press post reply and looking crap :(if you do tho, sir, please go ahead :d"
"posting in a thread that pre-dates the days of pomposity"
"saved for pompous posterity!:d"
"this thread is now being re-appropriated for use as an ancillary outlet for srius mercs.srius bisnis - helping you help ourselves take your isk under the guise of being otherwise helpful in helping expedite our helpless members from this world (in-game).tag line needs work, imo, but consider it a work in progress.edit: adding italics to make it look sriuser."
"also you should add something about how \"this will be dealt with\" idk viral marketing or something"
"i'm sure there's a position in the campaign hq for an eager young go-getter like you sir :d"
"that's actually an awesome idea nexus. well played"
"what?!?! are you attempting to subvert me into your campaign?!? ok.edit: i brokeded the quote chain."
"i like how you resisted :))"
"quotin dis.. maed uf awwsum"
"your campaing slogan should be..yes we ca... wtf!?!? why you violence my boat having no reason?!?!"
"i like the urgency of the tone lol"
"also... you need stickers!i recommend a simple design. a p. the empty area inside the p should be drawn to resemble a sun rising, bringing forth a hopeful new day. *gets to work on a vector drawing of pompous looking confidently into the distance*"
"council of stellar managementmeeting minutesdownload: pdf | raw log: pdfsunday 22nd february 2009present: ankhesentepemkah, bunyip, darius johnson, issler dainze, lavista vista, omber zombie, vuk lauapologies: tusko hopkinsabsent: pattern clarci. announcements / electionsnoneii. popular issuenoneiii. discussioni. new format for dev/player communicationin raw text from [ 2009.02.22 16:57:16 ]ankhe introduced the idea.lavista noted that the vague idea of just asking questions of ccp is not what the csm is supposed to do. he went on to say that zulupark has already promised to do a regular ask the devs q&a, and questioned how relevant it was that csm ask the devs questions except around expansions. he noted that ccp are very quick at resolving any issues/questions that bothers the players, and this idea seems to be more of a hey, we would like to just ask ccp random stuff. lavista reminded everyone that everything csm requests of ccp takes time from them, it should be limited to important issues.ankhe agreed that this is a type of ask the devs system, but with csm acting as a filter. this would then mean it takes less time for ccp to answer.lavista responded that it would take more time, and zulupark answered all the questions without the need of a filter.ankhe asked how it would take more time.lavista pointed out that ccp requires 2 weeks in advance before answering csm issues, they need to get to the people in charge of csm, who then farm them out to the appropriate devs, who then come up with answers which then needs to be cleared by ia and marketing. then they send it back to the community.ankhe asked how come other mmos can do it weekly, and gave an example of ultima online.lavista responded that that is because uo is an old game and that their developer pool is probably very small compared to eves.ankhe disagreed.bunyip thinks that even though it would require a reworking of the current forums, he thinks its a great idea to give more significance to the role csm plays.issler pointed out that ccp agreed to put out more blogs and other dev communications while we were in iceland.ankhe responded that the questions this would answer are too small to warrent their own blogs or csm issue, dev blogs are for discussing new content or things being reviewed, not small old issues.issler pointed out that we dont need the devs worried about answering small old issues as it takes time away from what they are supposed to be doing.vuk stated that this will create additional workload for both the csm and ccp, and as manpower is what is currently limiting them and csm (low activity levels), hes not sure either could handle it. however, it may help to increase the time of response from ccp on critical issues.ankhe raised the point that part of the csms goal was to get more validity and public exposure, and this would be a nice way of doing that.vote: 6-1 pass (lavista said no)"
"ii.transfer sovereignty to corporationsin raw text from [ 2009.02.22 16:39:32 ]bunyip introduced the topic. darius immediately said no and that there were reasons it was done via alliances.vuk stated he was totally against this as it goes against the fundamentals of alliance purposes.bunyip responded that alliances would still receive teh benefits of the corps in its alliance pooling their sov.vuk wondered if bunyip knew how sovereignty worked.bunyip said this change would work the same way, but with added benefits.both then went back and forth over a few minor points regarding fuel saving and space naming.oz pointed out that the benefits of having sov are for all members of the alliance, why would people join an alliance if they got the same benefits by staying in a lone corp and setting standings to those they liked. oz also pointed out that in the event of an alliance disbanding, the corps do claim sov for any alliance they create immediately after.bunyip said that the sov levels would have to be redefined to benefit both single corps and alliances.issler said she was against the idea and was willing to wait to see what ccp have up their sleeves with the pendulum.vote: 0-7 failiii. removing t1 meta-0 loot drops from npcs markin raw text from [ 2009.02.22 16:50:05 ]bunyip introduced the topic, then after some brief discussion, it was decided to withdraw the topic until more concrete data can be analyzed should ccp provide it.vote: postponed due to lack of dataiv. hilarious quote taken out of context for the meeting: darius johnson > it's only like 3 of my aussies that i'm particularly close tolavista vista > \"close\".lavista vista > how close is that?lavista vista > when you say close in veto. corp it usually involves... you know ;/lavista vista > stuff.darius johnson > i have sex with them in the buttlavista vista > there we go.internet spaceships, serious business.meeting end.minutes compiled by omber zombie. any errors or omissions please contact him."
"the best thing about caod is that the crap and poor quality posting there normally stays there and do not flood to other parts of the forum.as such, i think keeping caod in the way it is, is pretty fine. let those who need to spam their pointless crap there so i can ignore it."
"it's not like caod was ever a high quality forum. it's always been bad, we as goons have simply removed the middleman of faux-honor which went out the door anyway as soon as someone didn't cowtow to the status quo of fellating bob's supremacy.good riddance."
"this sticky will be returned new and improved.if a member of the csm could get in contact with me at the email in my signature, that'd be fantastic."
"i have to say first, thanks a bunch for your support vuk.now that that's out of the way i wanted to comment on something.i've been on singularity recently and there has been a change to the assets window made. i actually spoke to lavista vista about this in-game about two days before it hit. he didn't give me any details, but i was talking to him about the whole item tabbing idea and he told me there would be a change in store for the assets window that related to it.now, i am pleased as punch by this, and i certainly don't want to look a gift horse in the mouth (or **** ccp off, by flaming their hard work), but i still want more.the interactivity of the new assets window really is a great step in the right direction, but it still feels clunky and foreign. the sorting mechanism of the assets window (in station tabs) is very much like what i envision for the item tabbing functionality except that the player would have control over where items go, how to sort them and more importantly, how to manage them.lavista mentioned that actually this had been discussed with ccp before but at the time of the talk there was a technical issue involved with implementing it. again, there were no details, but it seems crazy to me that this could be so hard to do when we have the mechanism in-game already. in two places no less!sadly, i know next to nothing about computers and i really and truly could not begin to speculate what the issue would be or how to get around it but the item tabs feel so close! so vuk, if you're reading this, it would be awesome if you could bring this up to ccp again and see if they have come up with anything. if they haven't maybe you could ask them just exactly what the obstacle is and if they have plans at all for overcoming it in the near future.i'm pretty sure this would benefit just about everybody in eve in a very basic way, so i say keep the thumbs up coming!"
"i say no name change.but think something along with titles or nicknames could be good. i do not know much about fw so forgive me if i seem like a noob. this could well have been suggested already and the example below does seem alot like other mmo's like lotro , wow etc so maybe we shouldnt ask for it?we could have something like the \"hero of <battle name>\" when you have achived a certain number of fw victories or \"slayer of <ship type or role>\" when you kill x number of ships in fw."
"uhh, hell no.some of the largest institutions on built on a single intangible asset called trust. part of this trust goes with the name of your toon.this trust factor extends to every facet of the game, and permeates everything we do. from contract sales, to market orders, want to sell forums, secondary markets, ebank, alliances, research services, corp creation services, etc...you allow changing of names, and you've pretty much instantly torn down everything that makes eve, eve."
"incorrect.let me tell you a story which just recently happend within the secondary market of eve.we had a person using a toon called xabier create an investment opportunity involving capital ships. the plan was vetted, it seemed sound and the amount initially asked for was well within reason for a capital startup program. the investment went through as planned.fast forward two months later. dividends have been paid out on a regular basis and the person wants to expand. the expansion is met with limited resistance and goes through without much hassles.fast forward another month. another dividend has been issued. this time however another person evn who has a small relation to xabier wishes to launch a seperate investment opportunity. long story short, the evn rode on the coat tail success of xabier to a multi billion scam, which in turn xabier ended up walking away with close to 70b because of the trust he had built up.now, fast foward 2 weeks after the **** hits the fan. those of us who care about the secondary market notice that evn is attempting to offload alts on the character bazar. we also notice that fake transactions of toons have been made to obfuscate toons between accounts. all this is made public, and any reasonable person can likely just search for \"xabier\" on eve search and pretty much bring up the entire history.now and forever, the names involved in the scams above will forever be tainted. character sales involving them won't fetch as much, they'll always be a black marked.leave the option to changes names, even with a history about them, and you take that away and open the door for more situations of above.trust is the biggest and priciest commodity in the game. let's not devalue it anymore than we have to."
"this is a good idea. i think some of of the comments against this are stupid. you take this game too serious. saying you wont make as much to sell a toon or even that more people are going to get ripped off is stupid. i think that if you can get an aka when you search a name, then this should just be added. heck its another thing ccp can charge us for. win win"
"case in pointwe now know you're associated with the alliance efferus vehemens inasnum latrociniumthe names of those in that alliance are on the linetheir reputation is tied to your reputationnow imagine if this toon had been used to scam someone (not saying you have)trust and reputations here are a pillar of gameplay within eve. names are a big part of that since character sales can be tracked via the game forums, we can trace when and where names have gone pretty easily now and any other transfers outside of the game forums are a violation of the tos which can be reported since it often leads to rmt, scammers, etc..even if there is a history of names, it just adds one more layer of obfuscation which dilutes the trust, respect, reputation we have currently.forgive me if i tore into you, but obvious alt is obvious with the scant posting history."
"afaic, all of the people whining about \"zomg favoritism\" are just jealous. chribba has done a lot for the eve community. push the veldatar up into amarr."
"chribba definately deserves a little 'favoritism' not only is he the go to guy for trades involving complete trust in the other party. he is also been a big part of the eve community. most 0.0 alliances have done less then chribba for eve. =p an before you say thats bs go look how many alliances are in 0.0 [counting those without sov]"
"hmmm this is either1/ chribba wanting to show off the giant vedatar or2/ chribba wanting a way to sneak in a titan to the amarrian homesystem so he can ddd the amarrian royal family and then put himself on the throne.either way i am all for it!! love live emperor chribba the 1st... i mean, chribba the king of mining."
"boost them"
"i'm amazed by how stupid you are every time you post, and i've seen you fc!hmm, yes ccp please boost missile damage so the phoenix i'm training for is even stronger tia."
"if you havn't figured this out yet yaay:1. you're a complete idiot2. the nag does not have the highest dps of a gank dread (both blaster moros's (7k), and revs do more (5.7k)) edit: even without drones both do more3. you're a complete idiot4. get out of my thread.edit: totally meant drones not clones."
"5. your intel sucks. (pl hasn't banned phoenixes.)edit: no wonder you guys are losing so bad right now."
"the only difference between a \"macro\" and how it is now is that some poor, unlucky sap has to sit at the pos for hours and anchor/online each module. have you ever setup a deathstar by yourself let alone 5 in one sitting? i doubt it. you should go do it before you comment on things you know nothing about.if you think mm would have any more pos than they do now with this mechanic in, you are mistaken. fuel is what keeps pos spam in check, the anchoring mechanic is a useless/mindless time sink.this is a major reason why pos is . full support."
"i suggest two things to balance out your idea.first limit the ammount of pos modules to be qued to the levels of anchoring your have. so if you have anchoring 4 you can have 1 module onlining and 3 qued up, etc etc. secondly, i really think that there should be a modifier to the time that pos modules take to anchor/online/unanchor. either tied in to the anchoring skill itself (maybe 5% reduction per level), or a brand new skill altogether.with your current proposal i do not support it, too many advangates as many above me have posted. i do however agree with where you are coming from. balance it a bit, and you will get a thumbs up from me.tl:drno for now, balance it better"
"this+1 for treelox"
"i support this fully. especially now that you can only anchor 5 towers per alliance, to prevent towah spam"
"what he said ^^add in those changes and i'm happy to say yes to this."
"the point of pos anchoring is to be a heavy demand. full setup, a tower takes 4-6 hours of time. but, you can currently manage 5 at a time in 1 system, meaning 1 person can do the work of 5 if he rotates onlining at towers. that alone is enough. i refuse to support anything that encourages more tower spamming.while the balance is better in that version, it's still not great. lets see what changes this patch brings to pos (apparently there are some things in store), then worry about it more. if queing ever were added, the person needs to be limited to modules onlining in system, not per tower, i mean ffs, that'd just be easy street."
"the current system seems to be attempting to create game balance through player pain. it's like saying \"i don't want you spamming towers, so if you really want to, you have to treat it as a full-time job\". i'm fairly sure it wasn't intended that way, but it seems to be how it's worked out, and it's unspeakably horrible game design. if tower spamming is too easy, make it harder to support - more expense being the most likely option, but i'm sure there are others - but don't make a player click one button every ten minutes for a day and call it a game. nobody wants to pay $15/month for a boring, unrewarding, dead-end job, and yet that's what some players are saddled with now because of this system. the details may need some work, but the meat of the proposal is entirely necessary."
"supporting teh cause!1!"
"hell yeah. supported.p.s. also some \"collateral\" changes to the market/contracts would be nice, see this post."
"these aren't the only needed changes to the courier system(for the love of god, take off the 120k cap already), but they do sound quite interesting. anything that makes this aspect of the game work better - and this would - i'm all for."
"this is a issue i believe is very wrong for a mmo to make possible.if you look at 0.0 today you will see a few alliance names but if you get down to the politics more there is really only about 3-4 alliances that control 95% (made up number but my feeling) of 0.0 space.to me this is not only game breaking in what i believe a mmo should be but could be game killing. (no eve is not dieing yet)i want to bring this to the csm to bring to ccp to push for changes to 0.0 so that a small handful of alliance cant control all of null sec.i realize ccp want it to theoretically be possible for 1 alliance to control all of 0.0 but that should only be possible if the alliance meets no resistance even the smallest amount of resistance should be able to stop such domination from happening.my view is that a alliance that numbers in the thousands should only truly be able to control 1 region or so of space but as things are with planning a cap fleet can make it from the far south to the far north in just a short time frame.i believe this should not be possible to move your cap fleet from far south to far north and then if you get attacked in south while in the north just turn around and come home with relative ease.i am not sure how this could be changed but i do believe it should be risen to ccp's attention. perhaps a way of changing this would to make it so a cap ship could only make 2-4 jumps and then need a cool down period of 24 hours. doing something like this would make people thing more about moving there cap fleet to far way from home as doing so would open your home space up for attack as well as possible stranding your cap fleet in hostile space.now i know there is nothing ccp can do about the political ties alliances have and there is no need in my opinion if it was very difficult for the large alliances to move there cap fleets around a small alliance in the north would not need to be allies or live in fear of a large alliance that was in the south at least not as much from a cap fleet stand point.so to summaries the issue as i see it is that there is only really 2-4 entities in most all of 0.0 that control it and if you are not part of them you can not be in 0.0 this to me is a very bad thing for a mmo. this is a mmo after all not a three entity game."
"even with terrible mechanics like you describe i do not see how you can stop people from forming power blocks via nap/blue arrangements. it is only natural that a group of small corporations/alliances will band together and wipe out the competition and that repeats until you have large power blocks.you could set lame restrictions like, oh you cannot have more than 5 other alliances blue or whatever, but restricting the sandbox somehow takes away from the completely free nature of 0.0, which is really what 0.0 is supposed to be: anything can happen at any time.if you really want to destroy the 0.0 powerblocks, instead of whining you should get your ship and start fighting."
"maybe ccp should add 2500 new systems that can't be claimed with sov.oh, wait."
"there are already multiple tweaks to 0.0 \"on the drawing board\" based on various threads on this forum. over-expansion has been followed by a fall for every emipire in human history. the mega alliances of eve have not shown a change in that pattern. i do agree that it has become too easy to move too much too fast. jump bridges, jump freighters, huge cyno-capable fleets, and even jump clones were detrimental to the \"bigness\" of the galaxy and have contributed to the ability of an alliance to control more space than could be controled before these tools existed. i would like to see some nerfing of the ability to move massive fleets so far so fast."
"at least you admit you have no idea what you're talking about."
"tell you what... when you reach the end of your lsd trip... you can come back.until then... gtfo.last i checked.. there where more than 2 to 4 alliances who had sov....you have no bloody idea what your talking about.... leave please... don't let the door hit you."
"the problem here isn't the bumping, it's that he died in a mission. if you die routinely, you're flying missions bigger than you can handle, and should downgrade. if you die one in a thousand or so like you should, and that one time happens to have both people scanning you out and them deciding to bump you to avoid fleeing, then you are the most fantastically unlucky man to ever live. it doesn't require a mechanic change, though, just a proper mission tank and/or an aversion to lottery tickets."
"no change necessary."
"valid use of game mechanics."
"the ninja inside me is crying, but i actually agree to some extent with the op. it's not really counterable. still, harassment petition would be better.trust me, you really, really don't want what you're asking in the op. what happens if i take my gank tempest and fly in front of your missionship, causing you to bump me?"
"as the title says so. i am sick of the basic flaws of the non-official alternatives.most of these flaws are based around the fact that people actually have to do something.current problems.-people do not post their loss mails.-people do not post there kills (jawdropping isn't it)-if i am involved in any sizeable fight. it becomes necessary to scour scores of friendly boards to discover more of my kills where i did not get the final blow.atm i have found that in order to get a true reflection of my contribution on just the corp killboards i have to look through endless alliances like razor,pl,ohgod, tfc,kia ...... so many friends dam it.then i have to do the same again to update the alliance and coalition boards- some people do invent these mails and non-official boards cannot tell a good piece of writing from the rael mccoy.-whenever new content appears. there is a delay between the killboards index of what exists in game being updated and the new content being introduced.i'm sure most of us have had kills after an expansion that can not be uploaded.the solution.official boards through the eve websiteif you contribute to a kill or get to the final blow or die. it is under your profile.if at the time you're in a corporation. it is on the corporation boards and the same is true for an alliance. you do not have to do anything.so if i'm in a large fleet battle and i want to know exactly how many people help kill and all the glorious details behind it.i do not end up spending a good part of my life searching the internet to find them.potential unintended consequences.-killboards are a great source of intelligence. they can tell your enemies exactly what you're doing and how you do it and who you collaborate with.the solution is simple. have some settings so you can set a long delay on when kills appear or even that they never appear.thats all i appreciate suggested improvements to the above. happy supporting"
"no to official killboards.also, you realize most private killboards now run off director api keys so they automatically parse kills/losses? those boards then share that kill/loss data across a central database that all those killboards grab data from."
"i would support this if participation is 100% optional, and those who opt out are never listed - whether they are the killer or the killee."
"dictors are crap by game mechanics. bubbles linger after a ship dies, so it essentially becomes a 20 mil suicide ship. most alliances offer them free, or they should if they don't. pilots get back onto the field in the blink of an eye with bridging. and it's one ship that benefits from lag/lock times especially with the poor client response to guns as of late. the last issue really isn't with the ship.none the less, the ship needs changing. i'm all for more speed on this particular ship or a huge bonus to sig reduction built in for some sort of defense. but the trade off needs to be more pilot skill to stay alive rather than suicidal.you are right about client performance, it alone would do more for the lock time issue than anything mentioned thus far. dictors are my own personal battle to see the game restored to tacking support rather than dictor spams."
"supported.please dont turn eve into wow.stop helping the carebears"
"this should never make it into eve."
"i hope it forever stays dead and out of this game.this would be the final straw in a subscription im still borderline on keeping."
"no pvp without risking your pod!by all means implement single player simulators, but don't destroy world pvp. look at every game that introduced \"instanced\" pvp and see what happened to world pvp when they did!"
"given how well implemented this idea already is on singularity, i see no imaginable reason to port it to tq. i have no objection to better tools for consensual highsec pvp than mutual can theft, but anything even approaching combat without risk on the real server should be avoided like the plague. also, given the thousand other things that could be done with that dev time, even if i liked the idea, i'd still tell them not to do it. if you really have to rewrite some major chunk of the game to implement a feature, overhaul how the database deals with blueprints, so we can get differential blueprints for the same item as well as different-coloured bpcs. similar task(i'd imagine, judging by what little evidence i have), much more useful outcome. even if that one would be much harder, there are others that wouldn't be. surely something has to take priority over introducing pvp into eve."
"this is exactly the same as what you can do now, by logging onto sisi. i don't see the real problem.and what would it change? do you think suddenly pirates would use this? no they wont. 0.0 alliances won't use it, since you cant take space with a simulator. suicide gankers won't use it. so who exactly will use this simulator instead of starting the pvp? the random carebear still gets dragged into normal pvp by pirates."
"i'm all for giving people to ability to duel for practice, but the ranked bit is what did it for me."
"i say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit. it's the only way to be sure."
"this"
"horrible idea."
"i agree. no ccp-enforced battleground. the risk when undocking from a station should always remain throughout the eve universe.however, i would always support a corporation or an alliance arranging a fighting arena for betting or entertainment purposes in the game, but it should still involve risking your assets."
"say no to consequence-free pvp!"
"guys, this is a non-issue. this situation has already been handled long ago.so take it easy. let this thread die. trust me, i'm completely against anything like this."
"the csm was informed of this feature while in iceland, and have already expressed their opinions on this feature. let's just say we weren't that positive about it either, and it wasn't just lavista that was against it."
"the mods allowing this thread to exist means that ccp devs aren't reading these forums at all."
"good to know you're paying attention to whatever gets your feathers ruffled instead of my point.keep trying chimp."
"i'm tired of having to walk on politically correct eggshells.sticks and stones. we're all adults get over it.who cares what other people think about you as long as your happy with yourself?"
"i support this more tech 1 & 2 ships for the followingdestroyers 1-2 more tech 1 and tech 2 variantsbattlecrusiers 1-2 more tech 1 and tech 2 variants"
"what about an exhumer for v which is larger than a hulk in size but a little weaker with same fittings and a a slightly larger cargo capacity but with a jump drive or a different type of jump driving using another fuel source since you wouldnt really want it to jump and mine and then jump again ?"
"i ask, what is the point? the rorqual already does that, we don't need another industry-based jump drive ship."
"i'd rather see a logistical change in how the exhumers are handled now. making v required for the hulk and orca and buffing the yield amounts while changing the volume requirements on the low end minerals."
"i am a miner, and i can emphatically say this would be a horrible idea. hulks are overpowered as it isfrankly, the mining, mining barge, and spaceship command requirements should all be raised to level 5, the way the ship is set up now, it was obviously intended to maximize mining potential in low or null sec, not high sec. so let's limit it to low sec or trim its shield resistance boosts to no more that 2.5% per level (or cut them altogether). it won't stop the macro miners, but it will sure slow them down some if they have to use smaller less efficient ships.--vel"
"it is not overpowered...just needs to be nudged to exhumers iv or v.... that or the covetor should be moved to iii or iv.what makes a hulk overpowered are the bonuses you can stack on it."
"we already have three ships that you get exhumers v for, i don't see why we'd need a fourth. the hulk is fine(as are the mackinaw and skiff), and we don't need or want better. i could see some space for another exhumer, with less capability and more security, but really that's what an apoc(or hype, or aba, or rokh, or mael) is for."
"i most certainly do want better. the exhumers are souped up barges. that's what they are: a barge is one of the component parts of an exhumer. apparently you want to mine in combat ships, because that makes the most sense. if so, why go for a preposterous puny munchkin like a rokh? i want [i -will- at some point] to mine in a titan. no, don't say it, obviously that's ridiculous too. give the combat types frigatesdestroyerscruisersbattlecruisersbattleshipscovert opscommand shipscarriersmothershipstitans[-somebody- is going to point out the ones i missed for sure]why do they get all these behemoths? why isn't a cruiser enough bang for your buck? do you -have- to have titans? is it really necessary? wouldn't pvp be a lot more fun if it was just frigates, destroyers, cruisers and battlecruisers? you know, stuff you could actually afford to lose?in the mean time i get to dance around in a skiff [which they had to give the mercoxit bonus if they ever wanted -anybody- to get one], a mackinaw if i'm after ice [two beams at a time] and the hulk, the only boat that kinda maybe does a halfway decent job of mining a fair amount of ore.especially don't give me a better mining boat, that would be nothing short of sacrilege. i mean, a ship that can actually withstand the onslaught of three bored gankers without folding like a cardboard box and maintain its core functionality as an ore extractor. what am i thinking!some miners here think the hulk is too good and too easy to get. i commented on that elsewhere.bigger and better combat vessels: yes please. bring it on. moar firepower! more types of guns, a bewildering array of ammunition and thousands of ways to pimp out the slots when there's room left after the essentials are taken care of.a better exhumer?! there must be something wrong with me.what i really should be going for is a combat ship with mining lasers. that's what i always wanted: mining a commodity into a purse! yay me. why not equip the velator with spoons? would that be fair enough? let's just scoop the ore out of the rocks and carry it to the station one spitball at a time. that would be a challenge truly worthy of new eden.this actually ticks me off no end. to wit: exhumers v, totally in line with the 5-based scheme of eve allows for an exhumer with five! laser mounts. it serves as a deep core mining unit strictly for nulsec operation. it's slower because it has to put more energy in the beams, but it mines and refines its own ore in a hold the size of an orca. and it has a freighter-sized tank.there you go. that's the one i wanted to mention in the first place.i will call mine: olof palme.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"the exhumers are mining ships, yes. the hulk is a covetor with extra cargo hold, a bit more tank, and +9-15% yield, and the other two are basically hulks that get a fourth high for mining one specific type. why is that such a bad thing? it's exactly what the exhumer family ought to look like. and i don't suggest mining in combat ships per se. what i'm saying is that there is no reasonable place for a higher-yield mining ship to be added to the game, so the direction it could go in is for greater security with reduced yield. however, we already have that, which is why i mentioned the rokh - a hulk set up for max yield mines 1326 m3/minute, whereas a rokh gets 1059, or 80% as much. however, it gets about 4x the effective hp base, and can get up to 9x if you want it. of course, you can also go far higher if you start stripping mining upgrades to get your cpu back and fit up a proper battleship-sized shield tank, instead of the cruiser-sized buffer tank that i have on that fit. given that the niche for a ship that mines almost as much as a hulk with far better protection is filled by the five eight-turret battleships as-is, i see no need for adding a new one of the same design intent to the exhumers list. since i've already dismissed the four-strip exhumer as a bad idea, and i can't think of any other natural niches for a new exhumer to fill, i'm not going to support the idea of adding a new exhumer to the game. there's no need for a new one, because the hulk is fine, and adding anything better would just lead to silly results, especially if you follow though on your idea of giving it refining ability as well. hope that's clear. also, why would you want to mine in a titan? it's been done."
"hey, just out of wonder,instead of just podding it back to base in a pod, could there be a way of hijacking/stealing ships in combat?it would add a whole new level of action to the game if there was.."
"if a ship is ejected from, anyone in a pod with the ability to fly that ship can jump in. what you're basically proposing is giving people a reason to eject more often - since i don't think anyone would like a game where their ship can be entirely stolen from them by pirates. they're actually sort of doing this with tech 3, as it happens - given the skill loss from losing a ship, and the 2-minute wait for self-destruction, there may actually be combat ejections happening a lot more often. so yeah, interesting, but i don't see anything the csm could reasonably propose here. see how t3 works out."
"the problem with your statement: \"especially in these days where administering and leading corps is needed...\"yeah...we don't need more corps. we need less of them imo. if a corporation was started and needs leadership, then what the hell was it started for? so no, no support at all.--isaac"
"how about we change absolutely nothing about them, except to call them guilds. that would nullify this...uh... \"idea\""
"^"
"bombs have so many stupid interactions at present. if this is one of them, it ought to be fixed."
"aye."
"i'm in favour of removing these hacked-together intel tools in favour of real intel tools. don't know what the details ought to be, although i've seen many interesting proposals, but long-term, local and buddy should be tools for conversing with randoms and friends, not for spying on enemies."
"judging by the effects video, i rather like the new one. i'm all for its bugs getting fixed though, of course. that said, even if it was the worst idea since \"nobody will ever uncouple their reactor arrays\", the csm couldn't do anything until months after it was released anyways. this isn't, realistically speaking, the right forum for this complaint."
"^ this"
"the new effect is ugly and disruptive."
"some one need to stop it! this is madness!"
"because it is linked to several other graphic effects and so it is not possible \"change it back\" without touching other part of the graphics?i think that a option to tone down or remove some graphics effects, included the warp effect currently on sisi would be a good idea."
"yet the sleip: with xlarge booster, more guns, bonus to all medium projectile weapons, more dps, better speed, is working as intended .i dont want a huge dps boost, being able to hit at 70k is more than enough, but having the option to fit close range weapons, hams, like every other races commandships can do, is only fair. everywhere in 0.0 (ccp's endgame) needs a mwd, or you can easily get stuck in a bubble, so trying to debate that seems kinda moot (especially when the sleip can fit the mwd with its xlarge booster, cap booster, full rack of guns... its imbalancedmaybe i should change it to nerf the sleip ;-p (which i dont want since commandships should be amazing like the sleip/abso)"
"active tank(with large sb) or buffer tank nighthawk can fit hams just fine."
"no, they can't. show us your failfits. also, an t2 active tank on a nh is pathetically weak.to clarify - the whole point of field cs is to fit a gang mod - otherwise, they offer nothing over their t1 counterparts. so any proposed nh fit must include a gang mod. for example, an active hamhawk requires three rcu iis:[nighthawk, active ham gm]damage control iireactor control unit iireactor control unit iireactor control unit iiballistic control system iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivelarge shield booster iimedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 800photon scattering field iiinvulnerability field iiheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missilesiege warfare link - shield harmonizingcore defence operational solidifier icore defence operational solidifier ieven a bog-standard buffer hm-hawk requires two fitting mods:[nighthawk, buffer-hm]damage control iireactor control unit iipower diagnostic system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivelarge shield extender iiphoton scattering field iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iiheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missilesiege warfare link - shield harmonizingcore defence field extender icore defence field extender iyou do not see nighthawks in pvp because they cannot fulfil their intended role. a ship that requires two fitting mods for a basic fit is broken."
"heh how does the ishtar come here?? nighthawk lacks pg compared to other command ships it is a fact."
"yeah and minmatar capitals lag behind all the other races.the races differ in ship classes, and i'm sorry but the caldari have it good in plenty of other areas.if we're going to be doing some buffing, mini's need some love first."
"lol , matars need a nerf not a buff, everybody knows this ."
"probably too much work to implement realistically, but i'll give it a thumb for being sufficiently amusing anyways."
"only if you can kill the hitchhiker... when you get blown up.and the idea is full of holes... but it is amusing."
"no one would use it for fear of being podded. open to far too many explotations and grief tactics."
"frankly, it's normally just as easy to hop into a shuttle and fly myself there. the trip time isn't going to be any shorter.what would be cool would be some kind of npc transport service. like the interbus, only with real \"buses\" (i.e. passenger spaceships). you pay a fee to ride from one station to another, and you can even watch the trip through your client.meh, i'd still fly myself probably."
"no.ccp has aimed to push the fact that the players are demi-gods. if you don't know what i'm talking about, do a youtube search for the new player intro movie being introduced in apocrypha.demi-gods can fly themselves.however, in the interest of interbus, i'd love to see npc convoys transporting people, or slaves, or tourists around in space. even better would be the ability to attack them and make some sort of profit. the way you always hear about npc pirates doing.but thats roleplaying fantasy, it will never be done. not supported."
"allow bounty hunters to access warp gates and check who has passed through. of course concord wouldn't allow such action so you will have to bribe them. that way bounty hunters have a way to \"track\" their targets. they should also be allowed to purchase a license from concord allowing them to kill a certain player in high sec that has a bounty. players with a bounty can retaliate against their attacker - but they can never make the first move.what do you guys think?"
"accessing logs of people jumping seems crazy tbh. imagine checking jita-perimeter gate. it'd take 12 years to load.as for buying kill rights. the idea has been posed tons of times. problem being...lets say they go on market... when you open say market-trade goods-criminal evidence-killrightshow many different people are going to be listed there? tons!contracts would work... but honestly... that'd just be hard to track down killrights. also person could be somewhere... you could be sitting right there. they target you. you figure... they cant do anything. they search killrights. they buy it. they start shooting?it just isnt very good of an option.i say people with bounties may be hunted in high sec. kill their pod and you get the bounty; but you get to shoot their ship.currently the bounty system is a farce basically. you cant put a bounty on anyone that the value is > their clone upgrade cost. or they just have their friend pod them.but even that idea doesnt work because what's killrights cost then? 5000isk?i think in order to put a bounty on someone's head you must have killrights on him. you give up killrights in order to put that bounty. also there's a minimum of like 1mil isk to do it."
"a new system was proposed and discussed with ccp in the 1st csm, the outcome of that meeting can be found here. unfortunately i can't find the actual proposal anywhere - if someone from the 1st csm could link it it would be handy."
"checking jump/stargate traffic.... no....buying kill rights make more sense."
"the original proposal is here. i put together archives of csm submissions and ccp responses here and here(this is the one i found the link in) a while back, although it seems the master thread got 90locked while i wasn't looking. if you can get it stickied, i'll remake the master and add csm #2 submission 1 to the list of threads, since it does seem like a good resource to have sitting at the top of jpsc where everyone can see it."
"herschel, thanks for the links - ccp is actually working on getting all that info into the evelopedia atm, do your work (while greatly appreciated) may not be needed."
"i suppose the follow-up question here is whether the csm wiki is supposed to be public or not. i know it's actually got a pretty good set of issue lists and the like, and a link to it is probably sufficient for things of that nature in place of doing it again on the forums or the wiki, but if you're trying to keep it mostly-private then a workaround would be desirable."
"/signed"
"no covert ops cloak for killer battleshipseverything else is ok"
"sub-proposal 1 has my full support.sub-proposal 2 sounds nice but should work like the directional scanner. so no seeing cloaked ships, and no pilot names, just shipnames and types. while integration with ambulation would be nice it would force it on players and i believe ccp already stated they don't want to do so."
"looking over the proposal i see several flaws. first off just because people 'abuse' station games doesn't mean they aren't valid. when your camped into a station you have a few options. assuming your not going to use a jumpclone.1) stay docked and online2) logout3) undock and attempt to run4) undock and fightnow if you implement a longer docking time for larger ships your basically removing the benefit of having a larger ship when dealing with being camped. in fact by increasing dock time you basically ensure people will not undock to engage at all. station games are more of an issue caused by there being realistically only 2 points to catch people consistently. the station or gate, since these are the easiest and normally only places to catch people unless they're stupid, you'll get games. like undock engage then redock hoping that your friendly station camper has to leave due to sentry fire or you can entertain him long enough for support to arrive. the issue needs to be addressed indirectly to be effective."
"sorry but i could not support thisi view salvaging the same way it works in real life in international waters. anyone can salvage any wreck and if you neglect or unable to salvage a wreck on the spot when you destroy a ship or you try to return to it later and its gone because someone else does the salvage then tough.being frank if in low-sec or 0.0 space someone else is salvaging a wreck before you are able to then what is stopping you from greifing the salvager and then salvaging his wreck unless hes in a larger ship?"
"never should a ninja salvager be aggro'd. the wreck belongs to the npc corp. i think that the loot should also belong to the npc corp and not cause aggro if taken by someone other than the mission runner. where is the line drawn? if ninja salvaging caused an aggro flag to the mission runner on the ninja, do you have abandoned drones flag aggro if they are scooped by someone other than the owner of the drones? if a player ejects from a ship and leaves it sitting in space, as long as you're trained to fly it, you can board it and take it. obviously ownership of that ship is the pilots only as long as they are aboard it. mission runners are never aboard npc target obviously. so why should they claim soul ownership over the entire wreck? they get the loot or an aggro flag if the loot is stolen. that's good enough in my opinion."
"john,thank you for you input in this thread, i haven't been by here much lately and was worried this wouldn't get bumped. you didn't let me down and i appreciate that."
"once you leave the grid your drones are on they are no longer yours to control. disconnecting is an unfortunate way to have that happen, but then the mechanics of dc'ing and reconnecting are hairy in any game. designing them to be convenient while preventing abuse of the mechanic is difficult. the problem is that you can't tell if somebody dc'ed on purpose or by accident, and because of that any improvement in the system for people who dc is a possible option for abuse by intentional logoffski's.i'd prefer ccp err on the side of caution in this area, and the current mechanic doesn't bother me.expansions = new content, although sometimes we get bug fixes or enhancements with them too. generally those enhancements needed to be made to allow the new content to work properly. i supported the idea that if ccp wants people to use facwar then they should eliminate some of the reasons why people might leave. people will still use it even if they don't change anything, just less of them and for different reasons than ccp originally intended imo.again, i'm trying to make the point that just because somebody had an idea doesn't mean it's a good one or that it needs to be implemented. so if my position is that an idea is dumb, it doesn't require a counter idea to be valid."
"err on the side of caution? logoffski's are \"allowed\" in all number of situations as a valid tactic by ccp (as they will not start trying to make the disctinction between those and a real dc). in that situation it saves a pilots entire ship. as probes expire on their own, i fail to see how abuse of log offs in this situation can compare to avoiding gatecamps which is already allowed.how did you address what i said? i didn't ask you to define expansion. catering. that was my point. csm = opportunity to provide ccp with feedback. also can be read as, a way to allow ccp to better cater to their audience. entirely correct. no idea requires your approval to be implemented either. eve will expand and grow. it's up to you to decide if you just want to shoot down ideas as you see them (and only from issler while ignoring the rest of the csm board), or take a more active stance in guiding eve where you would like to see it."
"niskin,try quoting the whole post and addressing those points. your lack of input is nonetheless still appreciated. we were worried you might not come back, and we appreciate that you have."
"first it will be eliminate all learning skills next it will be give us free skills you lamers, you are whats wrong with gaming nowdays."
"if you can help in any way i'd really appreciate it as i'm **** with creative stuff :d"
"that would be beyond awesome! offering voters a load of exotic dancers and a big pile of crash ultra should pretty much guarantee it as done."
"voters?! ppffft.. cabinet! they need them to.. umm.. relax.."
"i wanna vote for you capt pomp, but what is your platform for running?what is your favorite color and your stance on brightly colored christmas socks?how many licks does it take for you to get to the center of the lollipop?it is the prime 3 question everyone asks themselves and we want to know your answer!"
"as the captain's press represtitive for the next 2 minutes i'd like to say we withhold this information at this time as other candidates may use it to infliltrate our campagin."
"well played poupon! however amy i will be releasing a provisional press statement very shortly addressing these and all other burning questions**burning questions not currently including determining whether or not i have vd when i pee"
"count me in on the bandwagon."
"i think there's always a place for sexy pirates :d...it may or may not be in my pants"
"if lyris is the same sexy pirate that did some advertising for that corp in domain locals.. then i suggest you make use of him/her/it for the campaign, captain obv.. pompous. had a way with the words that most jita scammers would only dream of."
"lol, always with the obvious :)e: some \"viral spam\" (not infected meat) might go down quite well too, and those people who get scammed come here anyway and they are my natural constituents! fake e: sniper hits your head, wrecking for messy damage"
"i think this joke has gone on long enough"
"what jokeif your ex-master can run for csm, so can i :).e: laying claim to dodixie was a pretty long-running joke...don't be a hater, jump on the bandwagon!"
"word, poupon...getting there bit by bit :)"
"csm (in it's current shape) is a joke anyway.either keep the original intent, or we might as well disrupt it as much as possible. srsly, yes. why not vote someone in that has only one agenda - to close it down? i'd vote for that.think about it, we (the players) pay for people to get transported to iceland and steal valuable development time from ccp. the original intent was alot better - to check so ccp isn't being involved in fishy stuff a'la t20. now, they use the \"internal affairs\" for that, which for all we know, can be just as corrupted.not that i personally care tbh, i came back to eve thanks to t20, had forgot about this game. and since that day i am still here. but anyway, before i am way off track again.. csm as it is right now just cost money to the players, and they don't do **** worth anyway. they're mocked and ridiculed by players. they don't do what they're designed to do. and ccp hasn't earned trust in players as they wanted. in light of that, the most reasonable thing is to close it down.so, it makes perfect sense to just lolvote for csm, or at least vote for someone that wants to close it down. my vote is for pompous, for lolz, until someone will be running to seriously close it down. then they get my vote.*shrugs*"
"a bird in the hand is worth two in pompous!"
"i totally agree misanth. whilst i do profess a degree of self-interest here (i would love to have the csm delegate badge underneath my name to pick up the hot chicks), i do sincerely believe in raising the profile and defending the interests of see and pee (\"the lolz\") and at the same time affecting change from within.really, looking at the csm now - whilst it's not quite as ludicrously comical as the first one, it just seems to be rather...well, rather ineffectual and lacklustre. i mean, with one candidate who shall remain nameless, hanging around the npc corp chat for years on end is frankly a little disturbing, and is almost like another frowned-upon activity that i shall not discuss here ^^i do really wonder what they do with their time in iceland. a lot of pencils must be sticking in the polystyrene ceiling tiles, i wageranyway...don't be a hater, jump on the bandwagon! :d"
"slogan #2 found!"
"/me stops hatin'"
"...and just who said \"ex\"? just because some of our corpmates leave, doesn't mean i'm not still somewhat responsible for them in some, strange way.i've enjoyed the privilege of having even ex-corpmates and ex-alliancemates pop up in local or our public channel and say, \"hey boss\", and i'm proud to have flown with all of them. short of a few 'bad apples', i have nothing bad to say about 99.99% of our past members.my sig hasn't changed, and neither has my resolve. any reference to our occupation and/or ownership being a 'joke' is simply misguided propaganda."
"i forgot to ask, by the way - you are aware that csm candidates must disclose their rl identities, correct? seeing as most of our forum ho'oers are shameless self-promoters and still keep our anonymity, are you prepared to present your 'true' selves to the world?just a q, to see if you knew, and if you're ready."
"i am happy to disclose my identity (a l batman to vicki vale ^^) when the time comes along e: i hope i'm ready hehe"
"\"ex\" is still technically correct though, with regards to corporate membership :)e: anyway, let us not squabble in this thread"
"no, let us rabble rabble rabble [kenny] instead!*shameless advert*"
"dude...kenny's dead..."
"if elected i will endeavour to resurrect him, for the good of see and pee!"
"back to bisnis more srius!you need a defined platform. you also need exposure. is it too late for a full page spread in eon? maybe cough up the dough to get one of those in-game login adverts. you need a website done in web2.0 with flashy transitions. you need snazzy automated forum signatures that supporters can brandish in their posts. maybe a certain insult-o-matic could be adapted into a vote-o-matic... hmmm? hmmmmmmm?"
"tell that to goons. they still try to kill him. beating on the dead horse, huh?you bastards!"
"yes i agree entirely. i will look into eon - maybe something can be arranged, but are the elections on the near-horizon? an advert there in any event would be ideal, great idea. i fully accept the need for a snazzy web 2.0 site but i can't code for **** lol...but i'll just see what bills i can pay with the skills that i have.btw, i was meaning to ask you about your sig. i heartily agree that could be a great tool for \"getting the word out\", and i think it'll only need a few modifications to change it from insulting the previous poster (as it does now) to insulting the previous poster for not voting for the right candidate)...or something hehe...any thoughts?"
"...and just who said \"ex\"? just because some of our corpmates leave, doesn't mean i'm not still somewhat responsible for them in some, strange way.i've enjoyed the privilege of having even ex-corpmates and ex-alliancemates pop up in local or our public channel and say, \"hey boss\", and i'm proud to have flown with all of them. short of a few 'bad apples', i have nothing bad to say about 99.99% of our past members. true that.tl;dr sn has a decent community that has sprung up around it and that's what bumps it up from a good corp with snappy ideas, to a place people like to call home.i'm not saying i wouldn't vigorously pod and ransom someone from sn that wanders into lowsec, but it certainly wouldn't be my instinctive reaction. ...and i would vote for tchell over any of our 'pretend' pirates gracing the current csm. provided a better candidate doesn't turn up."
"sup"
"i think he was referring to that empty packet of crisps floating in the street outside ^^"
"10 minutes devoted to pompous that i'll never get back.shall i continue or no?"
"vote pompous: tastes like chicken'"
"omgwill your character be receiving the isks?? :d thank you sol, that looks sweet!e: just in case my ebullient tone isn't clear, please do continue"
"a plea to mitnal: please don't move this to oope or ah or gd - the crime described in this thread is the perceived failure of the csm, and the punishment is my candidacy pwetty please"
"so are you going to leave eve, dole out your billions?where is my 2x!!!"
"you really shouldnt worry, it has c&p in the title, makes it mintal proof imo"
"loli like you, amy mouse :)"
"quotin in case mitnal goes mental i can just show him this :)e: sni...oh, what's the point, it's overdone now"
"lol, mind control"
"i really do <3 that page sol lol"
"ok, final revision for today. added mesmerising heads of c&p justice. linking to this is sure to make a hoard of pompous zombies. i'll fiddle with a sig later.link for the lazy."
"roflawesome sol, ty :)"
"ok, i'm work averse this afternoon. reworked a sig for your campaign. to inlude the signature image use the following url:"
"nice:d"
"seconded!!!i will have to find a way to reconcile this with the advisory message about my name (ie how to fit it all in hehe) :)how about \"<char name> wants to see and pee the whole game up, will vote pompous\" or something?"
"why do i get the feeling this is all one unemployed person making use of his time"
"it's actually a bunch of unemployed people, we all congregate at the labour exchange and use the computers earmarked for job-searching ^^"
"i am gainfully employed! i just kind of had a lapse in work ethic today.edit: added the see and pee quote."
"but the world is such a better place for it!"
"mother of god"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"it's sweet, if you scroll down a thread really quickly where a lot of sig-users (aka supporters) have posted, you get this awesome strobing effecti hope you've checked the website out too"
"where is this written? does anyone know?"
"i have read the blog and i am completely satisfied with ccp's response. in fact it is more that i expected thank you to the csm members who commented here. i would have liked the blog sooner but seeing the quantity of info they provided i can understand.susungps o.z. you got my vote if you run again no attitude at all a perfect public servant"
"i think with the expansion \"walking in stations\" comes alot of things like u want it. you can drink a beer with a corpmember or you play eve-poker with a completly unknown stranger in a beautiful bar while exotic dancers try to make some extra money.its not all you want but its the right way ...greets"
"i support this idea, as long as a search on the old character name always brings up the new character. i'd also suggest that the character's corp ceo (if any) and anyone who might have the character in a buddy list get an eve-mail informing him of the change."
"nice post."
"supported.the tempest needs a role. i don't know what the fix is, but the mael outshines it in every aspect."
"supported.edit: except for the part where the maelstrom loses its active shield tanking buff. i prefer it over anything else for that ship."
"we need a clip of the veldtar in a belt with mining lasers on in the apocrypha trailer. just because."
"i support this. seeing a player controlled titan for the first time was one of my high points in eve, and was pretty jawdropping as it was a couple days after i registered. everyone should be able to see a player controlled titan at some point."
"ambulation, when it comes down to the wire, is a side effect of the world of darkness mmorpg. not interested in it, never have been and never will be.a revamp of the way poses work is far more of interest to my corporation.the csm is there to raise issues with ccp. not just once, but until those issues have been resolved. so keep flogging the dead horse, and bring the stinking carcass to every csm meeting and throw the maggot ridden mess on the table until ccp does something about it."
"there are a few things that bother me about this:1: they didn't even bother to use the proposal name in the minutes shows they didn't give it much thought.2: they claim it is too hard and requires a lot of artwork. how much artwork went into these t3 ships and is going into wis? imho they could have easily created a programing group assigned to this issue and if they had started when the issue first came up they could have had it ready by next years spring expansion. i don't think anyone expected this to be accepted, coded, and implemented over night.csm your job is not to bee ccp's play toy. your job is to represent the player base and the player base wants this. ccp i understand that we cant always have what we want however a company that cannot listen to its customers will eventually find itself without any."
"are you suggesting that eve is dying, again?"
"just please make them hit for full damage agaisnt the proper ship size.cruises and torps should hit battleships for full damage. heavy missiles should hit cruisers for full.i don't care about shooting smaller ships. it's only fair that missiles do no damage against smaller ships. so they are equal in turrets. but please. give us our full damage against the right ships."
"signed. :) boost missiles."
"signedccp should know my caracal with 1invul and 1lse can tank a gank (read 1000torp dps) raven for a looooooooong time. i thought you paid more for battleships because they were \"better\" not just bigger."
"just change your mwd to an ab and youll tank missiles even better now."
"yes"
"signed"
"hurry the hell up and do something about this"
"this"
"original poster is too stupid to correctly spell queue so therefore should no be allowed an opinion."
"anchoring / onlining time reduced by 10% per level of anchoring skill (minimum need) and 1 additional module to the queue (would be nice)level 5 anchoring means 5 minutes to anchor or online a module.this or something similar would get my thumbs up."
"oh please yes"
"only pos crews know the pain.i support this, so they can have more time to enjoy the game."
"i agree that some boundaries should be put into place.i think a limit of the queue up to a maximum amount of time should be in place and instead of making it skill wise have it so that this counts alliance wide something in the way of:\"you can not start a secondary queue on a starbase structure in this system as your alliance is too busy doing the essential paperwork for another starbase structure.\"if this was to replace the current game mechanics it would limit an alliance of setting up more than one pos in a system at a time also bringing down pos spam.i believe that could keep it in balance with my current idea and still keep sovereignty applied to pos/moonsyes because maybe the op's first language ain't english... noooo that can't be can it?"
"1.0"
"hey there, i appreciate the support. in the us, we still use an antiquated system. i've no idea how common this is elsewhere, but i have heard that much of the rest of the world uses volume based pricing.however, many ltl freight carriers in the us use the national motor freight traffic association ("
"while i don't work for a ltl carrier in the us, i have dealt with numerous different carriers around texas in regards to shipping furniture. container loads, blanket-wrap services, and ltl volume loads in pup trucks.i can call up and ask overnite (now ups), abf, trail lines, or really any ltl carrier and give them two pieces of information. estimated volume and class. of course in all cases i have to include a manifest, the exact opposite of what eve accomplishes with it's 'mystery package' system.for sealed loads i can call, ask for a pup truck to be dropped off at the bay door. fill it that night, and have it picked up the next day. they only charge me for the amount of space i take up in the trailer, based on the class (100 in this case). hell i can get a full 28 foot pup truck from austin to dallas (200 miles) for ~$350.for palletised items this is even easier. once again it's class (100) and a mixture of volume and weight. at no point in my dealings with carriers in the us have i ever had to declare a shipments value. the one time i lost a shipment, one of old dominion's trucks literally burnt to the ground (brakes slowly lost pressure, overheating). i simply faxed them the invoice of what the items they were carrying were worth, and they reimbursed us for the loss.the point is, the guy driving the truck doesn't pay for the load when he picks it up. in fact, if everything goes smoothly, the shipping company itself should never have any significant portions of its money tied up in some rudimentary collateral system. even if you hire some guy that owns his own truck and trailer, he's not paying a collateral.the problem eve has is that there can be no class system. everything is equally likely to get damaged. there are no forklift holes in your shuttles when they offload them. the only risk to a freight load is from scamming, and pirates. there's also no such thing as an insurance system, or even courts. there's also no reliable way to price an item. i can claim that my 1 tritanium is worth 1 billion isk all i want, but no freight company in their right mind would agree. right now we have 'mystery boxes' that really could be anything. who knows what they're really worth?we need some sort of tool to help us start managing the logistical part of eve. of course, the first step in any major logistical endeavor is to set up shipping hubs! ccp... give us the tools!"
"the hatred for collateral is really kind of silly. we don't have collateral irl because we have an insurance structure to compensate for (very rare) losses, and we have a legal system to protect against theft and fraud. eve has neither of those things. collateral is the best fix for those gaps that we're going to get - handwaving, and saying that a ship carrying stuff getting destroyed just teleports the stuff back to the origin, is a terrible solution."
"aye, the class you speak of is sometimes based on the value of freight, among many other things like density, fragility, etc. this is really not the point, and doesn't apply to eve. in the end we both agree we need logistical management tools. i understand that the current collateral system would be a barrier of entry for many corps to go into the shipping business, but for me that would only mean less competition. i can easily include my risks in pricing while still making an appealing rate that customer would find useful. if however, there were a different method availble, then i'd use that also.tralala"
"i like this idea"
"as i stated if you just look at sov there is a few alliances that hold it, somewhere around 55 but if you get down to the politics you can link most of them 55 or so alliances all to 3-4 large groups. (the power blocks) i guess maybe i should state what i think should be more of the norm is that instead of a couple wars ie war of the south vs. north or gbc vs. goon's or any of the other large wars there should be several small wars throughout all of null sec. for example it would be nice if you looked at the north and seen 20-30 different wars going on all of which involved no one from the south and vise versa."
"try reading the op before passing judgement.eliza hacklehaber i know my corps kbs are api assisted. however this does not work for kills on friendly boards. and as for a central point of date sharing i think you're overestimating the level of corporation people provide in game."
"no. you'd need to have total control over whether your kills/losses get posted, and even then, it would remove misleading/faked killmails.also, encouraging peoples' epeens any further is a bad idea."
"while i don't pvp (as a rule) this wouldn't be any different than what a lot of other games do (though those tend to be rts games, as opposed to mmos).i'd support proposing it, with the caveat that i can opt of it in game. and with the understanding that there are other parts of the game that need fixing a lot worse."
"if you have the option to opt out, how does this help the situation you are trying to remedy. you're citing the issue of other people getting killmails where you aren't the final blow and not posting them, yet if they opt out of the reporting then that kill won't show up on the 'official' killboard either...the only thing an 'official' killboard would help with is the current private kb lag after patches...unless i'm really missing the point, imho this would make it a waste of developer time. unless of course they wanted to introduce it as part of the cosmos social networking thing... maybe throw that up as a suggestion?"
"not supported.kill mails are a total waste of time and nothing but ego stroking e-peen bull****.i'm sorry... but all i see these days is kill mail this kill mail that.. its enough to make me sick.who gives a flying rip... you never kill the guy completely anyway.alright fine... you want kill confirmations... then pull the damn thing out of the game and post it on your own damn board. as ceo of sc i can see every kill to date... its not that hard to figure out.you people are so bloody lazy its ridiculous.an official kb would increase the latency traffic as it is.... there's too much crap to parse out...if ccp gives this with there blessing then fine... but i'm not going to push it on the csm."
"i'm more open to an outlandish idea of doing away with killmails altogether."
"then how will we have any understanding of what's going on in the game?omber zombie if somebody doesn't want any of the kill/loss history posted this would now give them the ability to do that. if they choose this the issue of finding mails it's still resolved as there is nowhere else to look.in sort what is public is easy to navigate and what is private is totally secure."
"yes, that increase in \"latency traffic\" would be terrible. i think some kind of common kill register is a grand idea. of course it would need to be delayed. i think better (simpler for ccp to implement) than that would be the ability to drag kills from your kill-log into fleet/local/corp or whatever so other people can either verify the kill or copy+paste the killmail to their own killboard."
"try reading my post again jackass.and think before you speak.the kills are not posted or published anywhere in ccp's network of databases.. they are stored.its 3rd party people who parse them out... if you had bothered to pay attention you would know that.for this to be implemented means adding to the load of whats already present.i don't expect people to understand database mechanics... but i do expect people like you to read and think before you speak.top that off with the fact that i can see all kill mails in the corporation manager just as easily as the next director.... there is no need for verification... if it happened...its beacuse the server said so... end of discussion.got a problem with fraudulent killmails? that's your problem.. not mine."
"the only thing i can think that would satisfy all parties and keep it simple... is just mark who got the kill and stop right there.maybe log the rest as assists.much like freespace 2 or descent 3.no more..no less.... done and done."
"fake pvp... dont you guys get that its all fake... there is no new level of fakeness. there is already the test server.. .this would be an awesome oportunity to merge them and make it fun and cool at the same time. i play supreme commander and its ranked ladder is really competative and fun to use. i really like the idea of players competing for fame in the virtual reality of eves virtual reality.the stupidity behind the mentality of the political animal never ceases to amaze me. this is why i ignore politics and politicians because they are just the zoobs that step forward because they are too stupid to know that the real power is in someone elses hands.*wanders off grumbling about zoobs and imagining the total coolness of eve players being able to enter into a virtual universe of space combat.. and adventure and excitement... *... so much like .... yet they cant see it... grumble... mumble.. *"
"really? there's no implementation of arenas that will work for anyone?might i remind everyone that we don't mind when they do the alliance tournament. done right, how is this any different?eve online fanfest 2008 - ccp panel - arena discussion starting at 24:30 minutes."
"ships die in the alliance tournament."
"pod killing is also possible, though it does have penalties.if a real distinction could be made between the dueler and the soldier, this is an idea i could accept. the reality is that the only distinction would be that the dueler doesn't fit a warp scrambler..."
"arena pvp sucks"
"bam! so agree and very happy to see the irrational crap from the op's ridiculous complaint getting shot to pieces."
"as another member of the glbt community i must say i do not feel discriminated against while playing eve, i feel embarrassed by you making us out to be soft skinned victims though. some ppl don't like us, get over it. you wanna help gays that are victims? bring attention to the ones that still get killed in backward nations, just don't do it here cause your sexual preference in a game is irrelevant."
"100% supported, i could never take part in either an in game corporation or out of game forum that used anti-gay slogans or made anti-gay jokes. it's distasteful, and shouldn't be tolerated."
"i notice rascism is in the eula as well, damn i've been really mean to somegallante and amarians in the past!"
"good job reading the other 60 posts before bumping this crap back to the front page."
"while we are at it, please also ram down the banhammer (gee, now that sounds phallic) on all these hateful people who verbally abuse fluffy, cute, cuddly and friendly ursidae.using the term \"carebear\" as an insult is clearly a discrimination against:my child at heart.my love of nature.my caring and friendly attitude.an endangered and misunderstood species that likes to eat salmon."
"yay, csm support! :d"
"how about t1 ships that belong to minor factions?"
"personally, id rather see ccp spend time on improving the role balance of current ships. by that i mean improving the usefulness of ships that are rarely flown because they are simply outclassed by a t1 counterpart. id like to see the tier system be supplanted by a role oriented system. once ccp balances what already exists, they can spend time on making more stuff to balance."
"the more the better. i always wondered why there are only 3 bs's per race"
"this."
"we already have all the tech1 ships we need. however we dont have upgraded versions of it like all the tech1 modules have aka named modules (besides faction and tech2 ofc)more version of each shiptype would be good! sorta a step up towards tech2."
"i think this is not a bad idea, if it is done with subtlety.only very small boni would fit without disturbing game balance and without making unnamed ships obsolete. unnamed modules are already obsolete, because they tend to be drastically inferior to named modules. hardly anyone uses unnamed stuff anymore for anything but refining.a named amarr frigate from carthum conglomerate could have a few points more armor and a little bonus to capacitor, or a creodron gallente ship could have 5-10 points more drone hangar space.nothing too drastic and the trade off should balance the gain in power with a slight tendency to being an inefficient trade.i don't think it is needed, but it would probably be nice to have more variety among tech 1 ships."
"well i disagree, we do not have all the t1 ships that we need. i'd point to destroyers.yet, this would be a great idea, as long as the changes are subtle. but i'd like to add that there should be some slight visual tweaks to other variants, like with faction, and t2 ships."
"this sounds like the role that faction ships are intended to fill. \"it's like a mega, but 50% more hp and with an extra low slot\" is exactly the sort of bonus i'd expect from \"named\" ships."
"interesting idea, but i can see one major flaw: how would you get these ships? you get named t1 modules from looting npc wrecks, so would you get a whole ship in one of those wrecks?they could drop a blueprint, but that already exists (commander spawns drop blueprints for ships like the daredevil, nightmare, etc). while those are faction ships, i believe they fit the role pretty well.honestly, i don't see this fitting into the current game mechanics. sorry, but not supported."
"named t1 ships would be interesting; not different slot layouts, but differing meta levels of ship that change some aspects (say a 5% bonus per level became a 6% bonus, or if that's deemed overpowered simply giving it more hitpoints) of the ship. simplest implementation would be to add another form of research to existing blueprints to allow the manufacture of higher meta level ships that could then be sold normally on the market."
"you just prove my point there. you're saying that a battleship, if you beef it up a bit, will keep pace with a hulk, the best miner in the business. so, the ship that's supposed to be the best miner is marginally better than a well-equipped battleship. that means that the miner gets a ship that's better at mining only in token. a ship that's specifically designed to mine should not just be able to outdo a differently fitted battleship, it should be -vastly- better.i'm told i should just shut up and be happy with what i have when what i have is nothing more than a flying pacifier. the miner isn't the best equipped capsuleer in new eden, it turns out his flagship miner mines only a little bit faster than a battleship, but hey, it's got a bigger hold. does the term 'cold comfort' mean anything to you? and on top of that: a lot of people are even convinced that the hulk is too easy to get. what we should be getting is a ship that doesn't perform as well so that everybody in a battleship does a better job of mining than the miner does. and you're ok with that? why have miners in the first place?when everybody and their grandmother gets to fit an epeen to fit their egos, the miner doesn't even get one decent mining vessel. that's the reality of it. it's even worse: expressing the desire for one is akin to a social faux pas. what? you want a better miner? how dare you?5 strip minersorca-sized cargofreighter-sized tankore refining facilityfighter-class dronesevery time you want me to do with less, i'm adding to the wish list.i'm not going for originality. i want to mine in a really big ship. what anybody else does makes no difference to me. i have wanted to mine in a titan since the first time someone mentioned the avatar [about three days into the loony bin]. i -will- have a titan one day [not soon, but one day], i -will- mine with it.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"+1 to a new exhumer ship that vastly out performs a mining battleship."
"we -will- be the first ones there to blow it up."
"so you want a ship that can do what a rorqual, carrier, and freighter can all in one along with mining capability and allowed into empire space.while we're at it, can it have fairies, pixies, leprachauns... oooo and truck nuts. cause everything that big needs truck nuts."
"i fully expect you to be there. you are what makes new eden such a great and fun place to be in.it's a mystery to me why mining in a titan would be such a big leap of the imagination. ok, it's big, it's expensive, it's as elegant as flying in a concrete bathtub, so what? i'm not bothering anyone. i just want to mine. why is that a problem?abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"-you- said it would be allowed in empire space. not i.i have a hard time grasping why my request for a real mining vessel would be so offensive. miners apparently aren't supposed to make a decent living. many people [not all] commenting are not/don't want"
"i assume you are referring to the apoc and the insanely crazy need to both staggers the cycles and empty your cargo at a rate which makes playing diablo on nightmare look easy. you also lose much of the tanking ability that the bs has as well compared to a like fitted hulk (ie fitted for maximum mining efficiency)even with mlus in the lows a hulk can tank effectively against rats and some pvp encounters. you'll never get the same in a bs (at least pre quantum, haven't checked recently)and apparently you've never seen how fun it is to gank using a hulkwe already have capital class mining ships as well. the rorqual and orca."
"you mine 25% more, and are actually capable of doing it solo. the difference between a mining battleship and a hulk is like the difference between a stabber and a vagabond. when it comes to mining ice or mercoxit, that difference increases dramatically - a battleship is incapable of mining ice, and a skiff gets something like twice as much as a rokh. but even for ore, you have a sizeable advantage from using mining ships, and you save a lot of money too. you can whine about epeen for other players, but this side of red moon rising, missioners got one class of ships(marauders), haulers got one class of ships(jump freighters), pirates got one class of ship(heavy interdictors), and miners got two specialized support ships(rorqual and orca), and there were eight ships for basically everybody added(tier-2 bcs and tier-3 bbs - yes, i include miners in \"everybody\", since a rokh is a far better battleship miner than an apoc was). a dedicated miner has three new ships he can realistically use - rokh(or other bb), rorq, orca - which is the same as a pvper(bc, bb, hic), and more than a missioner(bb, ma). you're hardly being neglected. and you can add as much as you want to your wishlist - you can ask for the ship to order you pizza for all i care. you're not getting it. the game can't just keep adding bigger and bigger stuff forever and expect anything to make sense - remember, there hasn't been a new class of t1 ship added in the last three years that wasn't designed as mining support. given that we can't just keep going bigger, accept that you've gotten a lot better in recent years, and live with it."
"wtb mining missiles"
"incapacitated state of ship...linkage"
"well basically pointing to the same claim about it being a wardec safety.. is a bit lame..i specifically said it would not be a way to avoid wardecs..this is only a way to make it easier to be affiliated more then one place..the alt skin jumping is not something everyone prefer..changing suit/uniform and access to other corps facilities etc is rather usefull and fitting.. say you want to work in a corp with friends and family, but you would also like to do metagame stuff like djing for edenunderground, or eve-radio.. you have to use alts and corp them.. honestly this is a rp flaw, and i think it would be nice to get rid of the whole skin jumping and ad hoc alt usage..also i would like to have the option of joining say a pew pew school, yet still being able to maintain my ceo position in my own corp, without using an unskilled alt..training times are already become rather riddiculous.. something like 6+ months to fly something top line.."
"there's this thing called alliances... allows you to build affiliations of corporations with other corps..."
"forgetnow drake, though caleb has had a few good ideas in the past. let us not forget that he sometimes has some strange ones."
"*twitch**runs to his padded room**screams*there was no idea in that thread....he was just totally....vague. it's like he want's us to do the thinking for him."
"shhhhhhhhhhhhhhh"
"ok so basically you are saying that you dont use alts to work around the need to be in more corps than one?i am rather sure that a way to move between corps would actually mean less skinswapping and less micro corps..i just know that there are many services and play to get in other corps, but they all demand you use alts or leave current corp.as a manager or ceo that is really a problem however you turn and look at it.. if you give the consequences of such a feature some thought you might see what i am asking for.. and why.."
"alright... ill bite.i've been leading clans/gamingteams/organizations for 20 years plus... no joke.while i may not have been playing eve for long... i'm no idiot when it comes to organizational structure... eve is no different than most... even for an mmo.one of the underlying principles that people refuse to acknowledge... the idiots and young pups who blindly go forth spitting there ideas.... is loyalty.prue... unadulterated loyalty.we do not need the ability to join other corporations to do what we need to do....if we had too.. the best way to do it is to make an alt to get the job done.the only time i would condone such an action for a main is for the quick deployment of a jump clone via the jump clone corp that was established for that very reason.people who do not have a defined set of loyalties and go prancing around in there little pink tutu's are termed as corp jumping scumbags.would you allow someone to lead a corporation if they have an employment history of a few days with 20 corps long list?loyalty is a big deal...in shadow cadre you have to be in the team for over a year before you obtain such a position of high power like a director.... let alone more than that... provided the job was open and the need was valid.even then you'd have a large number of examinations and grueling tests to push your mentality to the limits.... where you'd either go mad... or end up reprogrammed with old skool methods of clanning.loyalty is quickly becoming a scarce thing in gaming today.... what you suggest... all in the name of convenience.... is nothing short of an insult.i can easily get around most blockades presented by any number of problems by simply being in a npc alt.if i cant.... where there's a will.. there's a way.even now i'm facing the problem of low standings... i have the highest... so whoever gets there first.... the corp or myself... i'll have to kick everyone out for a week then let them back in after i drop a pos.so i will not deny the problems of being a ceo.what you propose however is a can of worms.... and while people already do this.. it presnets a major issue of how easy it would be to exponentially make it worse.the only time i would condone such actions would be within one's alliance... after all if you can't trust them... who else?even then i keep restraint... my alliance is my alliance... but not my team.. my team comes first.loyalty to the team..... not to myself.my standards may be higher than most... but i wouldn't be one bit surprised if some of the more respectable corps would be quick to acknowledge that loyalty is a very valuable commodity in eve.a game where its easy to stab one in the back.if your brains haven't exploded yet... your doing fine.if your a tldr personality.... here's the short of itthe deepest pit of hell is reserved for corp jumpers and traitors. and may you stay down there forever.the consequences are lack of trust and respect.... and even if its a quiet one... its a fatal one."
"alright... ill bite.i've been leading clans/gamingteams/organizations for 20 years plus... no joke.while i may not have been playing eve for long... i'm no idiot when it comes to organizational structure... eve is no different than most... even for an mmo.one of the underlying principles that people refuse to acknowledge... the idiots and young pups who blindly go forth spitting there ideas.... is loyalty.prue... unadulterated loyalty.we do not need the ability to join other corporations to do what we need to do....if we had too.. the best way to do it is to make an alt to get the job done.the only time i would condone such an action for a main is for the quick deployment of a jump clone via the jump clone corp that was established for that very reason.people who do not have a defined set of loyalties and go prancing around in there little pink tutu's are termed as corp jumping scumbags.would you allow someone to lead a corporation if they have an employment history of a few days with 20 corps long list?loyalty is a big deal...in shadow cadre you have to be in the team for over a year before you obtain such a position of high power like a director.... let alone more than that... provided the job was open and the need was valid.even then you'd have a large number of examinations and grueling tests to push your mentality to the limits.... where you'd either go mad... or end up reprogrammed with old skool methods of clanning.loyalty is quickly becoming a scarce thing in gaming today.... what you suggest... all in the name of convenience.... is nothing short of an insult.i can easily get around most blockades presented by any number of problems by simply being in a npc alt.if i cant.... where there's a will.. there's a way.even now i'm facing the problem of low standings... i have the highest... so whoever gets there first.... the corp or myself... i'll have to kick everyone out for a week then let them back in after i drop a pos.so i will not deny the problems of being a ceo.what you propose however is a can of worms.... and while people already do this.. it presnets a major issue of how easy it would be to exponentially make it worse.the only time i would condone such actions would be within one's alliance... after all if you can't trust them... who else?even then i keep restraint... my alliance is my alliance... but not my team.. my team comes first.loyalty to the team..... not to myself.my standards may be higher than most... but i wouldn't be one bit surprised if some of the more respectable corps would be quick to acknowledge that loyalty is a very valuable commodity in eve.a game where its easy to stab one in the back.if your brains haven't exploded yet... your doing fine.if your a tldr personality.... here's the short of itthe deepest pit of hell is reserved for corp jumpers and traitors. and may you stay down there forever.the consequences are lack of trust and respect.... and even if its a quiet one... its a fatal one."
"nice long post drake..i think i would tend to agree on every single point.. what you fail to see is that corp jumping and alts is a problem when it comes to trust and loyalty..and even though you might not want to have multi affiliated members in your group i for one know that the cross corp activities are really frequent.especially in regards to having different professions and roles in different corps, but with the same main..i personally hate the fact that i have to play more characters than one to be able to do things.. this suggestion has nothing to do with corp jumping, its multi corp affiliation, and not in alliances but goerning different roles in different corps, and even alliances.."
"and what you fail to see is that it will never be used the way you think it will be used.people are greedy... eve encourages entropy and chaos.i will not stand by and allow the mechanics of this game be abused in favor of laziness."
"totally agree. the fact that you cant tell how many war targets are sitting on the station is what is really broken here."
"yeah, prety much like the science vessel in starcraft, maybe instead of a ship, a module."
"put it on black ops"
"only if it's exclusive to black ops."
"supported if:a) the bubble can only handle so much mass (any more and it is overloaded)b) their is some kind of on-grid burst you can use to de-cloak anything in-rangec) you need a specialist ship to launch the bubble (like black ops)"
"what an awful idea."
"what an awesome idea.only supported if the cloak works both ways: they can't see in, but you can't see out either. you still appear in local but can't be scanned whilst the cloak is active so the opposition knows something is up and you'd need scouts outside the bubble to report when to drop the cloak."
"interesting - dont see it going anywhere though"
"i really really like the old warp effect and don't see any reason why it needs changing at all."
"i agree. the new effect is bad and i feel like im drowning. damn!!"
"--i hope a ccp representative sees this and realizes how absolutely a failure fw is to bring entertainment to the game... the current mechanics are absolutely ridiculously weak in entertainment. this is the biggest part of the game that has absolutely no"
"i vote yes for ****o-billboards in plexes!"
"1 more support for prono boards."
"lol. no. not everyone knows that."
"other ships being broken is not an argument to not fix this broken ship."
"hey !good bye."
"i must admit i almost liked the idea of moving other peoples clones even more than the initial proposal..but se hitching and being on someone elses ship in flight really still appeals to me..tourist like and maybe as a reporter to a great fleet battle or other operations..would make war and combat reporting easier.."
"the csm wiki (hosted by ankhe) was a stop-gap measure till the evelopedia was launched. basically whatever is on the current csm-wiki should be ported over to the evelopedia - ankhe has more details on that tho."
"^^ that's me, stupid forums"
"makes perfect sense to trade aggression rights.. they should be level based so there is attack, destruction and kill. each type of aggression grants the victim a similar right 1 to 1. type 1 scanning, targeting, and can looting grants the same option back towards the offender.type 2 destruction of ship or other pos property. 1 to 1 \"item\"type 3 homicide. all the type 1 and 2 are limitless with this right towards the offender and any gang, corp and alliance, but not kill rights on these..these rights are generated and placed in the character sheet and can be taken out and traded w other players.these rights are active in highsec space, but not at gates. (roaming concord) belts, moons or at stations they are active.adding a standing based bounty payout system to the above and the whole pew pew has gotten a huge upgrade.. and the best part is you can stay out by never aggressing, and earn isk on trading the rights to those that want the pewpew game..this is not only fair, its going to be damn fun.. nb: standing based bounty payout is 0-100% based on 0-10 standing. and with a bounty hunter skill you can alway minimum get the ships base value payed out from current bounty pool."
"i repeat, i don't know who mcskanky is or who owns him. if you've tied him to somebody in my corp that's fine, i still don't know who he/she is.i'm sorry you're amazed? not really sure what you want from me here.i went back and reread this and i'm sticking with the original response:i've explained the situation sufficiently enough that anybody who understands the situation properly would know why it was embarrassing. anybody who doesn't would most likely need to experience it themselves to understand. in that respect i would highly encourage you to motivate your corp/alliance to move to 0.0 and try to survive there. it's a great learning experience in many ways.i can't think of a single mmo that lets you put in custom images for everyone to see. even wow's guild tabards are based on pre-existing images that they can account for.i don't know, have we? i wasn't involved in the infiltration but considering how easily the spy got in it doesn't look like it took much. as for the war dec it was roughly one weekend that we spent up there, due to stront timers. i'd say we've established that it was slightly more than a weekend but certainly not \"a lot more\".thanks for the info?neener neener apparently, sorry i forgot to include it the first time."
"im quite scared at how fast this has grown and to think, it all started with fat people in mcdonalds."
"just think of a mighty oak tree in sherwood forest growing from the smallest of acorns. well, that, and as you say, fat people in maccy d'si think you are a pretty good facilitator poupon, for bringing this all together"
"i have a brief moment every decade or so."
"may there be many more, poupon :)also want to get this thread to page 6 to offset the damage done by nexus a few posts up :("
"should just need a little nudge.its like playing those games in casinos with the pennies and the sliding levels."
"i love those games :)a great waste of money really, but a fixture in seaside towns like brighton and hastings and thus indispensible"
"we just have to shake it when the devs arn't looking."
"damn that sounded wrong."
"need moar taglines for siggy. chop chop."
"<name> knows why see and pee matters and so will vote pompous."
"<name> doesn't like nexus and will vote pompous to spite him"
"<name> thinks defending see and pee from emm dee and gee dee is cool, will vote pompous"
"<name> is a massive ***got so will vote pompous"
"considering that encapsulates the very crux of the see and pee clientele, i think that's an excellent suggestion. thank you sir!"
"quotes added, moar plz."
"<name>, unlike the md crowd, can spot a scam at a hundred paces. that's why he's voting for pompous!"
"<name> always takes a sniping opportunity. he's gonna snipe the pompous ballot paper"
"need this;misanth says; this will be dealt with. rabble rabble rabble for captain pompous."
"you're right, the campaign needs moar rabble"
"actually, it doesn't sound too bad if you just remove misanth with <name> as well. just go with ze flow and add plix.fake edit; i love my new sig. it's sexy."
"yes! it has been added. i wub."
"for greater effect, you can wrap the signature image with a hyperlink pointing to"
"things are moving forward, sweetthe sigs are the sexxeh"
"fixed.for forum nubs that wub pompous and/or want this sexy sig, here's a little how-to:1) click \"settings\" at the left sidebar (eve insider -> forums subsection).2) use the dropdown menu to chose your character.3) type in"
"this thread"
"just.... this thread"
"dont be a hater nexus, jump on the bandwagon!follow misanth's easy-to-use guide to get yourself your very own pompous for csm sig!:d"
"end yourself"
"fixed for you, in the name of election goodwill :)"
"this anger, from where does it come? might i offer my personal services? a full body massage, perhaps?"
"wat please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"you are quite obviously conflicted. allow me to get my massage oils and aroma therapy candles."
"dang you beat me to it!"
"end the orange doom! my eyes are burning! edit: i could just turn of sigs but i like lookin at mine its sexah"
"but...but...but...vote pompous"
"it's orange because pompous is like a new day dawning. he's your fresh squeezed oj in the morning. also, i upped the quantity of heads to raise the absurdity quotient. wasting your cpu cycles creatively is a worthy cause, no?whaddya think?"
"what"
"that will really mess with heads.its awesome."
"i do really like the orange motif, as it is like a beautiful sunrise. i think we can all relate to that :)however the millions of extra heads bouncing around caused me to have a grand mal seizure, have only just recovered now! *wipes foam from mouth*good job tho :d"
"hey sol, did you add a yellowish aura around the captain on the website? it's awesome, i look like a futuristic jebus"
"couriers could use an overhaul though..increase the number of possible couriers outstanding.. so you wouldnt mind placing more of them..also remove npc pricetag or make it inverse function of time.. so short and fast was expensive and long was cheap to create..this would beef up courier business a hell of a lot..players would have a lot more courier offers and you would easier fill your cargo space with interesting work.."
"honestly training times are really becoming way to long..you could practically plan a training that would most likely not be completed before the eve game became obsolete, or totally changed..things should be rebalanced a bit..a suggestion that might help ..unplugging implants when docked at med facilities.. this way going on operation and sacrificing training time for potetial value loss. if caught of guard and unprepared the loss would still be relevant..increase all traing times to two maybe three times current, but have podkills and shipdestructions cost skillpoints lost.. (along the lines of t3 just more)this way the seriousness of dying is retained, both from a skill and economic perspective.. but more might be willing to shift things around a bit to take chances and partake in more pvp.the intention is to have more pvp all over, but make it possible to risk manage and chose your battles."
"there's no need for any of that. training times are just getting long because your character is getting old and has already trained all the short ones. diminishing returns at work, and that is definitely a necessary mechanic."
"this really have little to do with my own character...i am quite comfy with my skills..i am refering to the fact that the current skill demands basically mean in practical terms that you wont see much of the game unless you sign up for 1 year or more from day one..this commitment is keeping more casual gamers out.. from a biz pov ccp would potentially get more players if they changed this a bit.."
"quoted to prove that damp-specific ships are worse than their non-damp-specific counterparts."
"don't approve. lachesis/arazu are fine, it's damps that need a boost."
"i do agree that the tempest needs a change, and i would certainly love it to have some sort of unique bonus (like the tracking) that allows it to fufill some sort of niche. do i think your ideas are spot on? no, but they are better than anything i've seen so far. the tempest seriously needs some changes made in order to compete in with the other battleships. though i'm not sure how much i agree with your proposed maelstrom shield changes, and ideas about torpedos (after the speed/web nerf patch). minmatar always used to be very difficult to train for, as many of their ships required both missiles, projectiles and a large drone bay. it's the only races that has both shield and armor tanking ships, with many that can do either. this wasn't bad though, because when someone took the time to train to fly a minmatar ship, they were something to be feared. now, many of their ships are a joke, and only the newly released minmatar ships compete with the other races. it's sad."
"ooooh...pretty titan...wait...why's it glowing? oshi-yeah... :)/signed"
"sure why not :-)"
"the first time i saw i titan i was in a recon ship cloaked 80km off a hostile \"death star\" pos in deep in 0.0 space. dozens of battlships and smaller ships surrounded it - a massive and impressive display of fleet strength. there should be things in this galaxy that remain rare and maintain thier awesomeness through rarity. seeing a titan should be earned; either by joining a fleet that has the power to wield one or by having the gall to get within visual range of such a fleet without invitation. i do not support this idea. before this thread i didn't know who chribba was; and after it i'm sure i still don't care. entertaining this idea would be favoritism in it's most blatant and silly form. anyone who doesn't want to take the risk involved in seeing a titan up close and personal can stick to videos and watch it on \"tv\"; they haven't earned the right."
"yeah"
"dd's can't be used in high/low sec."
"give me one thing in amarr to look at that is nice, please ccp."
"i for one approve this message."
"/signed.before the missile nerf i used to run a lot of missions, mostly for a change of pace but also to get lps to buy starbase charters. i graduated to running missions with a pair of cnrs with t2 and faction fittings but never found l4 missions to be pushovers. in fact i lost a few cnrs in l4s after getting trapped, and once in my first (and last) experience in l4 worlds collide. but i found the l4s worth running, if not fantastic isk makers or pushovers.after the missile nerf i tried again but found it entirely unacceptable. as a result i sold my last cnr and have not run a single mission since. i no longer run missions of any level or type.reverse the missile nerf. it was one of the worst changes ccp has made to eve in the almost 4 years i've been in the game."
"/signed"
"my mistake, i guess the several pl who have said as much are offset by the one dread that a guy is flying... so let me clarify that. pl heavily encourages turret dread use. however, due to people's nubbery, i'm sure it will take time til all pilots are swapped over. when it comes to dreads though, any dread is better than 1 less. yorda:nag does slightly more dps than a rev with the same effective hp, you're right about the moros, never even considered it before i posted, but then honestly, who's ever used a blaster moros. i've at least seen a pulse or auto setup or 2 in my time.as for being an idiot, meh."
"i think you missed point 4."
"stop it yorda, i don't want to like a goon."
"i'd have to give your thoughts relevance to truly care about point 4, so meh."
"useless timesink. surely something can be done about this without opening dangerous doors.../signed"
"this is relevant to my interests!"
"having setup several poses recently, i agree fully with a limited queue and possibly time reduction for anchoring/onlining per skill.i can also see the queue being useful for people who run complex reactions and have to offline, empty/fill, then re-online lots of silos every couple of days."
"i approve"
"yesplz."
"supporting looking into this issue if not doing what the op said."
"agreed"
"1.0"
"otherwise bombers has dead"
"signed"
"agreed"
"signed"
"how did i miss this thread?"
"now why do ppl have me in their address book and can see my online status even tho i never accepted them as \"buddies\"?i don't want that everyone can check if i'm online or not(except through tracker agents)"
"welcome to eve.... try not to live up to your namesake every time you post here."
"glad to see someone took their laconic pills this morning."
"to be honest this is a similar broken feature to local, and both should be fixed as soon as ccp can fit it in to their schedule."
"ceos can just hook up their api key, this idea is pointless and alot of work for ccp."
"simple solution: give everyone that appears on the kill record access to the kill record, regardless of who laid the final blow."
"there's zero need for a ccp-built killboard that would only be buggier than the api. what would be nice is an api that works for crap and reports the information people want. that takes less effort than building a killboard system that a lot of people would decline to use, anyway."
"i dont know about anyone else, but i think the 24 hour wait if you have roles is stupid, doesen't help anything, useless, and annoying. i see no point in putting this in but having another inconvenience when moving to another corp. if i could see this thing removed, i am pretty sure that everyone would be a tad happier with the game."
"unless i'm mistaken, i think its there to -slightly- deter corp stealing people. of course, it's only a day, which is useless. take it out!"
"supported :p"
"i'll support this, but only if the same applies to war decs. currently the leave-corp-delay is the only tiny deterrent to people corp hopping to avoid wars. unfortunately it doesn't work."
"not supported.initially i was against the policy... then i realized there is a valid reason for this annoyance.gives you a 24 hour notice before your kicked if someones sabotaging you.i suppose an \"improvement\" is needed... but removing it entirely is not a good idea."
"err.... no.i may not disagree with this shadow of an idea, that wasn't implemented. yet, i would never vote for an idea to be removed forever from the boards. this isn't soviet russia.anyway, if they try to implement it as a feature, or if they announce it, i will vote against it. to my knowledge it's not even on the table at the moment."
"signed. if you want consensual pvp drop a can and fight. if you want risk-free pvp go to the test server."
"we were discussing the delayed local feature in w-space over on the test irc channel and this came up.what if 0.0 local was by default delayed where that you only show up if you speak...but...if someone has sovereignty in the system, you show up anyway after a period of time. the higher the sov level, the faster you appear.flamesuit('activate');"
"supported!"
"i support delayed mode for all 0.0 space. i don't support the sov-related change."
"you are suggesting 0.0 space get a similar mechanic like w-space.here is to hoping that local delay time can be easily adjusted for 0.0 alliance and/or corp members and/or fleet members should have immediate local even in 0.0"
"you mean like this idea? it's still on page 1 of f&i. yet another sign of how pointless that forum is now the assembly hall is here."
"i really need 30 second delay to my name showing up in local to deal with the chinese farmer ravens infesting 0.0even if they die once every day, they still make more money than they lose"
"the first good option for local fix i've seen..."
"that's precisely what this game needs: yet another means for the established powers to ease their ability to hold their territory against challengers. they don't show up in local, but invaders do. bravo! we're well on our way to a perfect game, now!"
"supported"
"also add to that list:jerkjackassmoronidiot*******noobnewbierookie<add about 100 more to that>"
"i wouldn't mind seeing another destroyer for each race, but other than that there are plenty of t1 ships already."
"named ships would be a nice idea to be honest."
"i would like ccp to look into the balancing of short ranged weapons in general with the qr changes."
"blasters are suffering heavily from an erosion of their role. they arent useless, but their application is significantly more difficult and has even gone so far as requiring gang mates to be used to a greater degree.very rough calculations, but currently, out of all the guns at their optimal + falloff, blasters have the lowest speed requirement to outrun tracking  so in effective terms, they have the worst tracking available, and yes is it lower than arties. true that at those levels they are tracking better than other weapons, but it means their dps is significantly lowered compared to its paper value.ship bonus will make a clear impact into these figures (which may explain some of the experiences some people have had with some blaster boats), but unless were starting to advocate that weapons only be useable (not better) on ships designed for them (much like ecm is now and other ew is fast heading), as in have a tracking bonus, i dont feel this should be factored in at this point.personally i find the scram and web changes to be the most significant aspects in the equation since scrams have put people off from using mwds in many situations i have witnessed in favour of ab, so combined with lower web effectiveness much higher orbit speeds are frequent which are exaggerated at shorter ranges. it also means that once committed there is no option to disengage at all, unlike other weapon systems were there will be some, if not very much.but in all, when you are faced with these additional problems for no significant bonus in damage, the logical call is to use a different weapon.lasers are tracking too well at this moment, so yes there is some mileage in lowering their tracking, but i still dont think this would address a core issue with blasters at the moment."
"/signednot because blasters need a boost directly. with the change to webs all turret weapons need their tracking stats looked at, and hopefully adjusted."
"supported"
"your argument is for [any] battleship or either of the mining directors.i have all the information i need. thanks.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"fyi: fears of more isk farmers and macrominers are not valid reasons to oppose greater mining capacity. ccp has always had the ability to detect and ban isk farmers and macrominers. it seems they finally got their act together and solved the problem of infestations of isk farmers. now they need to do something about macrominers. just about everything that happens in eve is logged, and anything not logged could be logged with minor programming. with everything generating an audit trail it's a matter of data mining to detect activities like isk farming and macromining. it's just silly to think that mining has to be limited or crippled because greater mining capacity would benefit isk farmers and macrominers.fyi: the present problem of most hi sec systems being overmined is a problem of overpopulation given the numbers of solar systems, belts, sizes of asteroids, spawn rates, etc. for any given eve population there can be resources that make it possible for all of us to find good belts and to support ourselves by mining. ccp has fallen down on the job and let mining resources get way out of balance as the eve population has grown and as more and more players have skilled up to mine effectively.my mains have max'd out on all mining related skills. i've reached the limit of what i can do with my mining fleet and i want to do more. there should be no real limit to the evolution and growth of eve and the activities we can engage in in eve."
"that's an absurd concept. of course everything can continue to grow... it just has to do it with consideration, in an orderly manner, and with corrections if/when mistakes are made. the present high end of eve would have been inconceivable a few years ago. where it will be a few years from now would likely be inconceivable at this moment. wake up."
"tbh what i would like to see is a ship that may mine about the same as a hulk, but is considerably tougher - touch enough that it would be actually viable to protect miners in lo-sec/0.0. something like a drake-class tank.such a ship would be of no interest to hi-sec macroers, but would be very useful in opening up lo-sec and marginal 0.0"
"actually, eve's high end is exactly where it after the spring 2006 expansion(red moon rising, the one that added carriers and titans). many aspects of the game have gotten better(supercapital tackling, jump logistics, etc.), but the only aspect of the game that has gotten any bigger is the mining gang. and remember that there's a limit as to how high you can push things before you start to make the game unplayable for new players. if minerals cost half as much, but everything else is the same, because mining is now twice as good, a new player takes twice as long to mine his way into a bpo and start the industrial game, and might quit before he gets there. not to mention hard caps like insurance fraud - if mineral prices drop much lower, the floor under them will be entirely artificial. nobody wants that. there are consequences to expanding mining that are more dangerous to play with than for most other aspects of the game, and once you add a ship, you can't take it back. incidentally, i asked zulupark this exact question - will there ever be a bigger miner than the hulk - in his q+a a while back, and his answer was \"maybe someday, but not soon\". it was exactly what i was looking to hear, for the aforementioned reasons, and hopefully it should indicate that i'm not the one who is out of touch here. like a rokh, say?"
"what's absurd is the size of your head.bigger is not necessarily always better.i'd like to see a diversification of smaller ships... not massive mining ships."
"can i have a ship to go with titans 5 please. it should be like a titan, but be able to fit 5 ddds at once, launch 50 fighters, have a cargohold 5 times that of the largest freighter, have 80% resists across the board, 8/8/8/8 slot config (8 rigs), and be able to deploy to act as a mobile pos with 1 week reinforced timer. also, it should be allowed in highsec."
"supported.1. limit range of bubble to 5k around ship with module active.2. limit to black op only able to fit the module.3. limit total active time to 5 minutes. 4. any ship that gets inside the bubble can see any of the ships hiding in it.5. ecm bombs will disable any bubble on the grid."
"ummm. i do not support this."
"professional pvp hunters needs more intel gathering tools"
"this is fraking eve. several thousand years in the distant future, when we have mastered faster than light travel, and space-craft the size of small moons, i'd really love to think, we'd have a usable com-network.no. not supported."
"now think. think only a minute. nothing? yes, this is eve. super duper tech in future land. and that means that everyone knows when i... log... on? to the... game? via the... internet? yeah, sure. that is a convincing in-world argument.so that is how all my agents always know what krull is up to and where he keeps the damsel, right? they look in their buddy list? when you use \"this is the future, lol!\" to make a point, how about factions more or less at war with each other?does gallente federation intelligence have huge server stations with gigantic buddylists, where they keep all the caldari saboteur pilots? \"oh noes! yokashi kawatzuka just logged on! he is commander of specopswargru 286! he is surely up to something. let's ask one of our locator agents where he is so we can send a missionrunner up his arse!\" yeah... sure. now i am totally convinced. it sounds logical, doesn't break immersion and fits eve perfectly. all thanks to that insightful \"it's eve, lol\" piece of wisdom."
"i prefer the new one. old one made me sick to travel, now i'll be indifferent.ccp learn to give people options, give us advanced settings to enable only what we want."
"looks alot better than last sisi warp effect, but still a bit weird. would prefer a more subtle effect than this purple crazy tunnel."
"that explanation, like the jovian wet-grave was written post, release. as in, it's meant to explain the game mechanics, not for the game mechanics to draw from.there are several inconsistencies with the articles and chronicles.the point is that the \"sparkles\" link it to cynosure fields, which create a common theme.either way it needs to be refined, but i like the new direction."
"have you see the new one after today parch?red shift at your back, withe shift forward (shouldn't it be a blue shift?).nice."
"needs more support."
"supported if possible."
"sported, aa in eve needs vast improvements. not too worried about the upcoming competition ey ccp?"
"supported"
"right. we all know who i am not, and we all know i am not that other person. to ascertain who i am, you need to do some research. but that will fail as i nobody.for one year i have played this game, and for one year i have enjoyed it. alot.it is this pleasure i feel must be endowed to others, and for them to enjoy, they need a voice that they can rely on to get their gripes out into the open. i can be that voice, because i am loud and proud.any good person in this kind of running will need a set of policies. so here, for your scrutiny, are mine.number onethe term 'epic fail' will meet with insta ban of any forum posting. there is no room for discussion here.number twoi will push for an increased amount of emoticons for basic forum users.number threethere will be a movement for the idea of 'profiled' windows settings. ie; you can select from a drop down menu the settings for different window configurations which are custom made.number fourto listen to people, and not enact harsh and unrelenting judgement biased to how many numbers are in their name.that is it so far."
"it's this sort of absent-minded behavior and lock of attention to detail that makes you a poor candidate.a wise voter will see through your ruse and vote pompous"
"+ spamming the forum with related threads are not the way to do it as well....sry but i do think there will be certain alliance leaders that have a couple of thousand players behind them or quality forum posters (not you) that will get voted on.edit: afte"
"... ha ha. you know what i see? a spelling error. we all do.it is this kind of deficit in attention to detail to which the followers of poppy are accustomed, to which they adhere, by which they live and by which they prosper; thus, any kind of movement with uylear at the helm will be flawed and inadequate, totally eviscerated of any sense and constantly in strife with itself."
"what a jokeri support my rt. hon. friend in her election bid may the candidate with the brightest banner and the rowdiest supporters win!"
"i agree wholeheartedly on this point. more smilies for everyone. i cna't agree to any more tho, as that would give the impression of actually having a co-ordinated platform and i would be lynched by my supporters! co-ordination or, indeed, thinking, is not the essence of seeing and peeing :)props to you, miss!"
"what is your policy on alts?"
"have lots?"
"and never forget, eve'rs, that we must adhere to one final law. physics.in no way will i push for items of interest that simply cannot be done due to ccp's limited technical abilities. my goals will be economically viale, completely realistic, and in tune to a growing community.there are many minds to consider when enacting a decision, many lives are altered on the whims of those choice makers.it is with this in mind that i will back bench the small scale ideas, the tweaks to interfaces for example.actually, you know. i'm not being serious at all. i'm merely bored.vote pompous!i don't have a passport anyway. nor a brain. or a clue as to where to get one."
"my policy is to leave them as they are. they work as intended, and no further tweaking need be made. though, for the true nature of scummery to come alive in eve, perhaps an api mod can be worked for each indivudual alt. infact, thats my new policy. independent api's per character"
"... ha ha. you know what i see? a grammatical error. we all do.it is this kind of deficit in attention to detail to which the followers of uylear are accustomed, to which they adhere, by which they live and by which they prosper; thus, any kind of movement with uylear at the helm will be flawed and inadequate, totally eviscerated of any sense and constantly in strife with itself."
"what are you on about?"
":oe: was just surprised at your support :) twas a nice surprise tho <3"
"no problems. i'm making pancakes. want some? you have my support because i really like your name tbh. it is something i feel endeared too."
"any friend of pancakes is a friend of mine french toast is for babies."
"pancakes would be great...i made a whole bunch the other day for pancake day, but more would be awesome, especially the way you make them...although as my maiden aunt always told me, \"a moment on the lips, forever on the hips!\""
"moved to jita park corner."
"i see you're following ankhewhatever's way of campaigning with similarly important and viable spearpoints. make sure to note that you're a girl every 3 seconds, don't forget to stress that important bit. it works well with the nerds and you'll get oodles of votes."
"baah miss, sorry about the forced relocation i think it's on the cards for poupon's thread too"
"logoffski's only save your ship if you can warp faster than the person locking you (and you aren't in a bubble), or if your ship can survive 30 seconds of pounding. so i see some caution there. warping now (or logging now) versus waiting until your drones are in is a decision any pilot has to make. if you wait you are risking your ship, if you don't you lose your drones. i think that's a reasonable decision to ask pilots to makecatering to players who either are incapable of learning game mechanics or choose not to is one thing, catering to the intended player base is another. the former would be adding things to make life easier for carebears, the latter would be expansions.which is exactly why a csm who wants 0.0 to be easier for carebears to access is something that is bad for this game. combat pilots still have to deal with industrial stuff and all the things carebears do, it's not like carebears have exclusivity on mining or something. carebears choose not to play part of the game and i think ccp should choose not to make that part any easier for them to access.shooting down bad ideas is taking an active stance in guiding eve where i would like to see it."
"i had almost thought you forgot about me, making me wait a day is unlike you.the issue was never making it impossible to lose drones. it's being able to recall drones after relogging in. the example i cited was for mining drones in large unwieldly mining barges. so if you return to where you were (relogin after a dc) you can reestablish connections to drones from further than 1.5km. make it require a module if you're worried about abuse, the fact remains that it is a problem.this is not some magical fix that would allow you to steal the drones from a pirate who dropped in on you either. you warp or log (or get dc'd) and they have nothing stopping them from staying there and camping them or picking them up themselves.so adding things like a jump drive fuel and path calculator in game is catering to carebears? or can you do this in your head? sounds to me like this is something many choose not to be able to do without the help of 3rd party tools.are you the intended player base? or am i? i think you might actually be able to put your definitions to work here, please define who exactly is comprised in this \"intended player base\".also, i bolded and underlined a part from page one that i feel was finally conceded.what exactly did she suggest? that anyone without a certain amount of sp be given safe passage in 0.0? i'm pretty certain there's a large amount of certain disreputables in eve who would love more carebears in 0.0. if there are carebears in your 0.0, blow them up. i've never heard issler propose that they be given polaris ships.your attempt at shooting them down as stupid doesn't seem to be all that successful from my point of view. i was simply trying to provide you with an alternative that might lend you more success."
"things are busy at work, my availability to reply is limited at the moment.if they want to put something in that affects mining drones only i don't care. if it affects all drones then i have a problem with it. being able to recall combat drones after a login would remove the need to make a choice between logging/warping off and waiting for your drones. it may seem trivial but for a dominix or myrmidon in dangerous territory it's an important risk/reward decision.since i don't fly carriers or dreads i would leave that to ccp to decide. i wouldn't ask for changes to something that i don't have experience with. the intended player base is anybody who participates in the grand scheme of eve. entity versus entity combat in low or no security areas is the focus of the game. everything else is there to support that. politics, war, winning and losing, these are what make eve go around. mining, trading, ratting, missioning... these are just supporting activities to the core of the game.\"issler raised the point of carebears in 0.0  the current system doesn't seem to cater to allowing established alliances to allow them in.\" that's what i read in the notes. to that i say that carebears need to learn how to be useful in 0.0 and then they will be needed. i'll make a full post on that next.and i would say that is because your point of view is lacking experience from some very important areas of the game."
"carebears in 0.0if carebears want to be needed in 0.0 they need to make themselves worthwhile having there. that doesn't mean they need to be combat experts but they need to be able to survive and accomplish things in that hostile environment.this means they need to know a few things:undock/redock mechanicsbubble mechanicsbasic 0.0 survival informationthey also need to be able to do a few things without a babysitter:setup/takedown pos's maintain pos fuelferry moon minshandle reactionsmine ice & minerals with your own scouts/overwatchit's likely that there are pvp corps out there that would go to 0.0 if it wasn't for all the pos management and backbone stuff they aren't interested in doing. an industrial corp that is skilled in the things above could easily work with a corp like that to make a move for 0.0.you'll need carriers, jump freighters, blockade runners, ships fit for travel and survival. most of all you'll need experience doing these things in a hostile environment. practicing in npc 0.0 is the best way because you have to deal with bubbles but still have stations to dock in as a backup.eve has four different environments people can choose to live in... high sec, low sec, npc 0.0 and true 0.0. each provides a different level of risk and reward but all are decently balanced. a corp has to decide where they want to live and what they are willing to do to live there. the more risk you take the more reward you could see."
"you have demonstrated your own experience deficiencies. the next three quotes work well to point this out.you are changing the situation in order to break the suggestion, rather than finding a solution to the current problem. this is not a fault of the suggested change, but of your desire to disagree.recalling drones in a mining situation is difficult because the large mining barges cannot navigate through dense asteroid fields. put a long timer on the recall, it would not change the benefit of getting drones back without mucking around with the aggravating collisions with asteroids.you're perfectly willing to classify the people who want them as being unwilling or incapable of dealing without those changes though. \"anybody who participates in the grand scheme of eve.\" i couldn't have said this better myself. this includes your 0.0 giants, day old noobs, miners, traders, ratters, missioners. all of these make eve go around. the \"core\" of the game would not exist without them. if you think pvp is the core of this game, why not relocate everyone to the test server? free goods for all. no one would mine or mission.do you even know what that quote means? is a carebear still a carebear once they're in 0.0 as free targets? any incentive that would promote more people in 0.0 can't be all bad. it actually sounds a lot like darius' ideas with incentivizing 0.0. you want less people in highsec and more in 0.0? given people a reason to go out there. if you disgagree there, take it up with darius."
"this would be good material to stick in a guide. have you considered compiling one and expanding on each? it's probably been done before, not sure.seeing as how you don't reference isslers words once in this post, it makes me wonder. what has issler offered to change about any of this? you can ignore my first saracastic comment, and i apologize for the slip. do answer me why you felt it necessary to provide this guide here though. you have spent all this time opposing issler blindly without any concrete examples of what she's changing that you dislike, other than \"she mentioned changing something\". i'm going to run for csm and change pos mechanics. how i'll change them i won't tell you until you vote for me."
"when i don't have experience with something i say it, and then i leave the suggestions in those areas to other people who do. i'm not sure what you're trying to say with \"demonstrated\", but i've been transparent with that throughout this thread.i'm not changing any situation. i'm explaining why this change has broader effects on the game than you seem to be aware of. as i said, do whatever the heck you want to mining drones and i won't object, but if it affects combat drones then we have an issue. not sure what you are going for here. you were responding to me saying \"i don't fly caps so i don't address suggestions related to them\" and in that case your response makes no sense.the grand scheme is not \"i mine therefore i am\" it's \"i mine therefore my pos's are fueled and my corp/alliance can continue living in this area\". pvp itself is not the core of the game, but conflict is.hopefully not. ideally they would be 0.0 saavy industrialists. my previous post explains that and what it takes to get there.sure it could, bad ideas happen all the time for the noblest of reasons. what's important is that ideas are well thought out with all situations in mind. then they are less likely to be bad."
"all of that info should be available on these forums if you search on it or ask questions in the appropriate forums. i'm not really motivated enough to do a guide myself but who knows, maybe someday.i've quoted her comment in this thread a few times so i won't do so again. the point is that she made that suggestion rather than just training her corpies to do the things i posted to get to 0.0.given the way the thread is going i wanted to make sure you were aware of the options currently available to carebears who want to go to lower security areas.this isn't blind, it's not like i've never seen her operate. i was in her corp and then i was in the same alliance with her for a while after that. i've known many of her ex corp mates and have seen intel on the accord's activities. in addition i've yet to see anything in this thread that alleviates my fears.anyway got to go, will probably be a day or so again."
"those other people who do couldn't be issler, i take it.why is it that i offered a solution which you didn't address then? i solved your apparent problem with combat situations. a timer. make it no more efficient for people who could fly to their drones, so it only benefits those who cannot fly to their drones due to asteroids. the part of quoting yourself that you left out: other people do have experience with these things. just because you find them stupid doesn't mean you're qualified to comment on them. drone recall mechanics, cap ship jumps bays, carebears in 0.0... is it clear where i was going with that now? i am not a miner, don't preach that to me. the point i made is everyone has their place and you did nothing to contradict that. without a steady supply of noobs to venture into lowsec we would have very unhappy pirates as well. everyone contributes to eve no matter their profession or level of experience. supporting those new players is good game development practice.provide situations in which ideas don't work so that they may be fixed then. you can't do that with isslers 0.0 ideas because you have nothing specific to complain about. therefore, your criticisms are pointless. all you've done so far is give us a walkthrough of how things are (not even an analysis of problems with that system)."
"read the whole post before seriously commenting on admitted sarcasm.the details of her ideas are what i was referring to. the next comment should clear that up if you cared to read it before typing the response above.i bolded the part you missed. i really don't think you read my post. if you don't try a little harder to respond properly others might begin to see through your trolling."
"yeah, i figured the main pic of you and the slogan should be in the foreground."
"bump to make sure everyone still knows to...you know."
"if elected, i will make sure \"mama's boy\" scar9732 or whatever his name is is exiled to siberia ^^"
"as a representative of the forest, i herby endorse this campaign and pledge the the votes of all the forest dwellers"
"sweet, we should go treeplanting with a side of highway robbery to celebrate."
"^^ i agree, johnny appleseed with just a touch of menace"
"oh godstill this"
"yes indeedand now it's started in the rest of the forums too"
"a certain candidate who will not be named is begining to become an \"issue\".i think a good old fashioned smear campaign may be in order.c/d?"
"coh, wait."
"you guys"
"you know it."
"make it stop!"
"i see miss ulyear's thread got moved...i suspect the same will happen here e: chomin...you know what you have to do to make the bad man go away ^^"
"noooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"push the ballotahemhypothetical question: if i were elected tomorrow (and that you voted for me also, of course :) ) what one thing would you like to see changed abut c&p?"
"everyone knows that brand new players can participate in parts of the game, but new players don't know that yet. coming from a mentor based organization we rarely have this problem with our newbees but there is a subset of players who join this game and want to fly ships that are way out of their league, right away.i think it's more of a marketing issue, players need to understand that you can't do everything you want after a month of grind like other games. hopefully the new player experience will teach people that even with an absurdly low sp they can still fly ships - but those first 10 missions have to be really fun otherwise every new player will quit after only ever seeing rookie ships.but back on topic... training times? i'd be all for resetting everybody's skill points to the base 39, remove learning skills, then roughly double all effective training speeds (just like newbies are supposed to benefit during their first few weeks). i used to argue for learning skills but honestly they are not fun, and that by itself is a pretty decent reason to take it out of a game. the 6 month redistribution and implants should be enough attribute modifiers. this way old players train at around the same speed that they've been training, but so do new players. older players still have the advantage of access to good implants for their ridiculous skills, but newbies can get in the game quicker."
"as stated by previous people, very good idea imo as well"
"+1 for more powerful ship bonuses. currently don't see a serious use for any of these ships."
"i'm glad you took my suggestion seriously (or did you put this here before i even posted that)i'm not glad i haven't been in the assembly hall since errm... long long time take it to amarr!!!!"
"hahaha i love this idea. fully supported"
"supported, because it's chribba"
"i think it's a great idea, families should be allowed to be together, it's cruel to keep them separated."
"its chribba so yea stick this titan in amarr by whatever means nessesary"
"can someone please explain how this is any different to a dev spawning a bpo, teleporting players out of a camped system, or just favouring certain groups when answering petitions. if someone suggested moving one of kenzoku's (bob's) titans to highsec, there would be public outcry at dev favouritism, but when it's the almighty chribba, everybody is quick to get in there and join in the massive brown-nose-orgy.also, just so you know, having a dreadnought in highsec, even if you only use it for mining, is still an exploit and should be treated as such. it has more cargohold than a mining bs or bc (the only ships able to fit as many lasers), and can fit more mining lasers than an industrial (the only ships with comparable cargohold). not to mention the fact that any attempt to suicide gank it is futile. this essentially means that if chribba wants to afk-mine he can spend longer afk and get more ore than if he was using the ships above. ah i hear you say \"but a hulk mines more and has more cargo space\". correct, but a hulk can't tank 100 bs's shooting at it for the 10 seconds before concord arrives. this is essentially a license to afk-mine while being completely safe from any attack, and get a very good yield while afk.i propose that ccp remove all highsec capitals, drop them in station in the nearest lowsec system, and declare it an exploit to ever fly a capital ship in highsec again. this would fix this obvious fault with the game, and might stop all the fanboy-celebrity madness that's going on here."
"sadly that's how favoritism works - most people only have a problem with it when the favoritism is given to the person or side they dislike."
"in no particular order...step 1 ask the player base to make the artstep 2 im not a programmer but whats the issue with programming the new pos setups? they still are modular, they still require anchoring, they will just look like the ones that npcs have, all clean and put together, missing something here..step 3 how many dev blogs are there? one cant write something about pos setup and layout?step 4 cry! moan! cry harder! please do this?step 5 profit!"
"i would say it's pretty clear at this stage that close range dreadnought fittings are inappropriate for use in any sort of situation where they might get hot-dropped, as evidenced by the multiple, highly one-sided capital ship engagements with sniping dreads. which actually highlights another disadvantage of the naglfar, in that there's no practical way to get adequate range with both weapon systems, so you're limited in a sniping fit to either guns or missiles, and usually it ends up being the guns. the result is that (once again) the nag ends up by far the lowest in terms of damage output, assuming the fc is able to get the phoenixes to shoot targets appropriately. if nothing else, the naglfar at least needs a 3/3 turret/missile hardpoint allocation, even if the number of highs/mids/lows aren't altered. and it could definitely use more cpu."
"supported"
"i approve, how about auto setup requires you to sit there but does each step auto? so you can do the tower and then have the rest just come up when its ready to come up, you still will have people spam towers (dont you already?) but it will require a toon to supervise and one character cant do 5 at once on auto,but it will take the mind numbingness out of the setup, drop an orca at a moon and have it run auto after telling it where to place the modules, then move to the next toon and do that again, doesnt make it an all day job for you but does for the toon, start process come back later , not every 10 minutes, still can spam towers, but needs more people to do it, (a least more characters online)less micromanagement makes me happy,"
"a while back they changed the carriers so you could not put anything but charges inside a ship's cargo before putting it in a carrier. i think it's about time that this restriction got looked at or removed.here's a short list of things which shouldn't be restricted but are:a) combat drones (of course, you could just stick them in the carrier itself)b) mobile warp disrupt bubble (the anchorable kind)c) liquid ozone (really, are you worried about some awesome liquid ozone trade routes :/)of course, there's one good reason why restricting any cargo inside a ship's storage is completely outrageous: ccp have never made any effort to unlag the pain in the butt that is the corporate hangar facility of capitals (or even pos :/) - even with 3 gscs and a hsc my corp hangar is extremely laggy!given that jump freighters make moving valuables completely safe (if you know game mechanics, scout and cyno properly, etc) i fail to see why a carrier nerf is still in place. at the very least give us 10,000m^3 cans so we can decrease the lag just a little bit more - or let us abandon divisions within our corp hangar as that is probably the cause of the lag..c'mon ccp. give the older players/addicts a reward for their loyalty/addiction to your product."
"supportin' ma own topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt so i don't support this topic."
"i am not an awolx alt and i support this topic"
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"they are an awox alt or my name isn't drake draconis."
"your name is really drake draconis?coool"
"ok ok i admit it, i am an awox alt, but dont tell awox he doesnt know it. he is still very unaware of teh split personalities that eve has given him. in fact as far as awox knows right now he is sitting as his computer looking at brazzers and ****ing it. what he doesnt know is that he hasnt ****ed it for years! everytime he thinks he is ****ing it he has actually switched personalities to tag ibby"
"i'm an awox alt and i do not support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt and i support this topic."
"not supported. i didn't even read the op post, just read all the replies of awox alts and think this is a scam. --isaac"
"awox alt i am not, support this topic i do."
"meh, where is my enemies list, if i have buddies, i should have a separate enemies list"
"parse out killmails to individual api watching apps such as evemon/evehq etc..etc.."
"come on guys, i fit my drake with all sensor booster mids in blobs just for getting on every km i can."
"would be very useful.supported!"
"they should at least lower it to 4 hours or something"
"insta leave should be viable, but only if you are not at war, or will be involved in the next 24 hours, if you are at war you cannot leave"
"what? that idea sucks"
"correction on the war clause: if your corp is at war and you leave... your a war target for 1 week. then your free to move on.it's fair in my eyes as it either stops you from playing eve for an entire week... or your going to get shot at for a week. : o p"
"rob corp blind.leave corp without any delay.ex-coprmates don't have the 24 hour window to shoot you without concord intervention.not supported.stealing from corp already has no practical consequences. leave at least a little chance to kill the thief if he is careless."
"this. 24h won't kill you.if you're not committed to staying with a corp, don't accept any roles. hell i don't accept any roles and i am committed - i just don't want the responsibility."
"no, it wont kill me but i dont see the point in waiting 24 hours. any good reason for this is not very strong because it's only 24 hours."
"yeh, when entering a new corp, i kinda block myself from new roles immediately..why get stuck 24 hours somewhere you might not want to be?"
"no, its like 2 week notice for rl jobs, keep the 24 hour times, personally i think it should be 1 week from last withdraw from corp hangers/wallets, 24 hours to remove roles sure, but this way either they dont play for a week, or they get shot. honest leaving should be veted by the ceo in 24 hours."
"i prefer it the way i said it but your way isnt bad"
"i'd prefer extending the time and give the ceo power to \"eject\" a player earlier if they wish. this may help with corp stealing...although, i think the corp jumping & wardec exploit really needs to be fixed. it's quite annoying"
"i support that whoever thought of this idea was fired and that it should never see the light of day or even thought about again this isn't f-ing wow"
"this."
"keep it on sisi."
"or all these damnd janitors they dont clean sht,the dancing girls are static, and the slave army i got cant raid another corps hanger, as they are located in a concord station in a 1,0 system they dont do a damn thing, let me put them to wok doing something even if it is knitting sweaters for the dallas cowboys or the blackhawks, or refining ferrogel out of each other, just make me able to do something with them."
"supported. while not making a huge difference to gameplay, it would be a nice bonus to the rp'ers."
"so you can get gagged for swearing in local, but calling someone a \"***\" is not a gag-able offense or what? looking for a bit more info on this one."
"clearly what we need now is a glbt corp of elite pilots with lots of funding to take up arms and declare a holy war against all homophobes.think about it: gays flying p*nis-shaped ships(there's no shortage of cylindrical hull types), bumping into the rear-end of all those poor ignorant fools, throwing waves after wave of phallic-shaped missiles at them. their spirits would break in no time, their insecure, paper-thin, fragile masculinity shattered and fluttering away like leaves to the wind, thanks to the glorious force of pink paladins meting out justice by ass**** and shoving acceptance down their unwilling throats.heck, if anybody goes through with that i'm totally signing up/donating funds for the cause. that'll bring some ****s and giggles."
"you're welcome, aren't you glad to have me?but really, i'm not sure goonswarm functions in a world tainted by such vulgar anti-homosexual behavior and sentiments. it runs counter to everything we stand for, and must not be allowed to continue."
"ccp acknowledge this is an international game, with an international community.no where is it declared in international human rights that \"homosexuals\" must be treated as \"heterosexuals\".some countries are openly against homosexuality, others accept it but do not allow gay marriage, and finally there are a few countries that openly accept homosexuals.....who are you, or i for that matter to declare someone's opinion as being wrong.i am sure people don't say you must not be gay, but as being gay you may be treated differently. just as we would not expect a woman to lift a heavy object that a man would. gay people are fundamentally different to straight people, and so are often fundamentally treated differently.....i personally am against homosexuals, but i will not grab a pitch fork and hunt you down. you are free to do as you will, and i am free to stay away."
"haha, i'm sorry but no. they're not."
"oh heavens no... anything that should prevent goonswarm from posting and waving there e-peens around without restriction!jackass."
"who are you to make an opinion on this matter then?oh wait... that means your a hypocrite."
"look people... this is a game.... treat it like as such... or gtfo.i'm sure wow will gladly take subscriptions and you can push your political affiliations at will.personally i don't care what you are...what you do...or where you go.what i want is none of your damn business... but push it in my face...and ill rip your arms off...and feed them to the drones.i don't care if your for or against.... the fact remains... every time you make an stance.. im going to shine a spotlight in your face until you get it through your thick skulls that this is not the public arena... its a science fiction game in a world of make believe... leave your baggage and trash behind.if you don't like being treated like crap... then either you shut up and not make a big deal out of it... or you blow up said person.anyone can do it....why can't you?oh wait... your too damn proud and prideful and need to make a political statement.yeah... smart.... real smart... like the other 60 thousand players are going to give a rip about little ol' you.they are more interested in your stuff!"
"quit forcing your viewpoints on me."
"/me points at gay4life alliance"
"well i'll be damned....now i have to send them some isk or look like a liar."
"this bull**** is becoming the turd that won't flush of assembly hall.someone lock this garbage."
"as another member of the supposedly slighted community in question - for the love of the goddess, please lock this thread. then we can focus on something important.like illegal furrier experimentation."
"except for battlecruisers, right? 2 per race is not a lot."
"off topic - the balance of t2 ships has nothing to do with this. :/"
"agreed, faction battle cruisersextra battle cruiser for each race... maybe. not sure. at least the t2 battlecruiser should be a new model entirely.also, i want a level 4 battleship, which is a pvp based ship, using the benefits of a race (raven is good for caldari, but not very pvp)........all tech 2 ships should be remodelled, so that they are completely different to the t1, or similar but not identical."
"3 tiers of destroyers + 1 more t2 + faction? (salvager specific?)3rd tier bc + 1-2 factionfaction frigates need lev 4 frigate and 1 ship specific extra skill, not just lev 3 frigbadger mk 3 4 and 5?faction frigates should be expensive, but at the rate that they get killed its sort of stupidly expensive, - 15 vigilants in a mission = 1.7 billion isk 4 dramels in a mission = 12 million isk4 marichials in a mission = 3.8 billion isk, and thats just lev 3s, the numbers are stupid. make them less rare, what kind of business model are the rats using? where is my state issue cormorant? federate catalyst? (navy issue corm/ cat?)"
"while having more ships to choose from is not a bad idea, what is the purpose?what new features / bonuses would these ships have that the current ones do not?i can just see a whole lot of new whines as a result \"this ship is over powered\", \"this ship needs to be boosted, its not a strong as the other ships\", the typical crys to make every ship the exact same i don't really see a point in this change."
"well yes of course, but :21 t1 frigates + 28 t2 frigates , + 11 faction (10 really)4 t1 dessy + 4 t2 dessy + faction? 16 cruisers + 24 t2 + 15 faction (13 really), 8 bc + 16 t2 + faction?12 bs + + 8 t2 + 14 faction (11 really) even the score a little?58 frigate options, 8 dessy, 43 cruisers, 24 bc, 31 bs options, 4 dessys! 4 t2s? salvager dessy? faction dessy? 8 bc hulls 0 faction bc, fill in the gaps.more ship options- caldari navy issue cormorantsalvager specific dessy, (bonus for salvager cycle time)serpentis catalystshadowcat!im not so concerned about the bc's,just the dessys"
"arent faction ships \"named t1's?\""
"they have for the most part different slot layouts and some are totally unique hulls. the op is proposing meta-level ships, which would be the same layout with slightly better stats."
"well then tbh seems like a waste of time, named ships might be nice but then why not just more different ones? t1/2 versions of the different faction hulls, improving the ships stats without skill increase just is like a general buff for whatever ship your using, think of the named modules what would the difference be between the effect of named mods and named ships? a plain t1 hull would not be/could not stand up to a named t1 hull in combat. - how would you get these ships?- why would anyone use a non-named t1 hull?- balancing would be terrible, or absolutely useless unless they were for non-combat roles, - i figured that the mods were the stat boosters (in conjunction with skills) the ship would be better now too? seems like it could get real ugly real fast just support more ships, it seems like this is the same suggestion as that."
"you're right of course, but stay with me a moment... - add a new research type. the higher you get this research, the higher the meta level of the item produced- they probably wouldn't, but lack of demand would lead to lack of production. pretty much the same as what we see with t1 mods; why would anyone use them when they can use a better named version?*- balancing is always difficult, and is not an argument against an idea. these things can always be balanced if deemed viable.i don't understand this i'm afraid. we already have named mods - could you please try to rephrase this?the principle is that higher meta level ships have slightly improved fitting stats (more armor/hull/shield/cpu/power/whatever) than their raw t1 counterparts, and that these meta level ships could be created through researching the blueprints. of course if we did this with ships, we should also do this with modules..."
"hauler spawns... they carry like 25-50million trit etc so why not a whole ship?"
"add new research - eeww, buff for big research corps?lack of demand- i still dont really know what these ships would add to the gamebalancing- yes because we all know how good cccp is at thischanging the ships attributes (resists,speed,cpu/powergrid) it seems like the t2 ships are just that, better cpu better power, better resists, named t1 ships brings a call for named t2, and a huge nerf to everything to keep it in line with cruisers and battleships, adding a new layer of slight increses means that t1 cruisers will be that much less effictive against frigates, named frigates will have to be closer to cruisers in power or all frigates will be nerfed to keep them from overpowering t1 cruisers, sure the point of named things is to be better then the t1 version but the balances between ship classes are already a bit off, forget the named ships, its a bad idea, tons of new balances (ie nerfs) and more crying"
"i've personally seen this happen to my corporation recently. basically, when a corporation wardecs you, anyone can join that corporation and shoot you. this is already considered an exploit by ccp and was petitioned.there needs to be restrictions on new corp members, like them not being able to shoot (or be shot by) war targets for 24 hours or something of the sort. it doesn't even have to be that long. it's stupid that people can join corps and shoot you, then leave minutes later so you can't retaliate against them."
"if you can run away from wardecs by corphopping, then expect people to use the same mechanics to kill you. deal with it."
"no, not like a rokh. a rokh is significantly inferior to a hulk for mining, as you well know. there's also the tiny detail that it needs battleship skill, not mining/exhumer skill. i'm talking about a mining ship, not about a refitted battleship.and on a side note, ccp's own data show that a whopping 40% of mineral production comes from reprocessed rat loot. that right there shows that mineral production is seriously out of balance, with that balance tipped strongly against the miners.opening up low-sec for mining, or better yet poor tru-sec 0.0, will greatly increase the supply of low ends. this will have several beneficial results:(1) the relative price of high ends will increase back to what they should be(2) hi-sec mining will be relatively less profitable, reducing the incentive to macro and reducing resource strain for the new players(3) it gives people a reason to get out of hi-sec"
"i don't understand why everyone who is against this idea keeps harping on the \"oh i want it in empire as well\". we wouldn't want this in empire. we would want it in low/nullsec.this would not be gamebreaking at all. if anything the \"gamebreaking\" occurs already in the form of reprocessing loot.the argument that we already have mining ships that go with exhumers v come in the form of the rorqual and the orca. i may point out that they are not mining vessels, but mining support vessels.before i sign off, i have to repeat, we don't want this in high sec at all. mining ships should vastly outperform battleships in terms of mining in every way, and bringing up that the rokh can compete with a hulk out in low/nullsec only supports our case."
"wait wait, i must be missing something, - you are against a ship that would a- bring miners to low and nosecb- drop mineral prices further (making ships costs lower)c- tank rats in 0.0 (you of course shoot better so whats the difference to you?)d- support capital warfarewho said anything about this being a hisec ship? the orca doesnt mine does the dread shoot? the rorqual doesnt mine does the titan ddd? where is the comparason? where is the dedicated no sec mining ship, there is a nosec mining support ship and a large hi sec support ship but can the rorq fit strip miners? can the orca? where is the capital mining ship ? supercapital mining ship>?figure a t2 rorqual -8 high slots (8 strip miners, hell maybe even a capital strip miner) 7 medium slots (needs a tank)6 low slots for the (cargo and tank and mlu2s)make it move like a barn and fly like a barn but mine like the devil himself, no ore compression (but really why not?) no clonebay or fighter drones this ship needs a escort, but why isnt there a cap mining ship yet, really?now how many of you would like to have this killmail, think about that before you vote no,"
"i would like to see a more advanced miner -- but the problem is to keep it out of empire :-/"
"make it a cap ship, - solved, until chribba gets one that is"
"why are all the command ship modeled after the first battle cruiser (rank 1) ships? (brutix, typhoon etc) why not make the second one modeled after the (rank 2) models? (myrmidon, prophecy , hurricane etc)"
"to be honest... they should have a completely new model."
"the answer is because command ships were released before the tier 2 bcs.however, i do think theres some mileage in a revamp"
"no, there needs to be new tech 2 battlecruiser ships using the tier2 battlecruiser model"
"supported! i don't understand why i have to lose my settings each patch, can it really be that difficult?oh, and rejoice! thanks tusko"
"well as some might have noticed the trader profession seem to have been overlooked in regards to the higher ranked skills. there havent been added any new skills and higher levels to this group. i really think we could use a few new ones. a new level above tycoon would be nice. also a skill to handle the suggestion below.i really would like to see a specialized trade ship. kind of like the orca, but specialized for trade.the features such a ship would have is a bit special.it needs a cargo space somewhere between the industrials and the freighters. i would say something like 100.000 m3 would be fitting. its function is selection more than actul volumes. it would ofc be resupplied by indies or freighters.the ship would need to anchor its commerce bay. this would basically be a huge can the size of its cargo hold. this should be a non scannable can, or at least difficult to scan. when this is anchored within range of a station or gate it function as an extension of a station item storage. thus when you buy and sell the items you dont need to be docked, and your orderbooks are injected/updated with the local markets.the update with local scc takes time. the idea is that your orders are the same even though you decide to pack up and move to another region or system. when done the orders can remain the same and keep the track of the demands, so your ranges etc change when you move shop, but your original order damands remain the same.personally i would hope such a ship came in two types w and without jumpdrive.maybe even a type of jump drive that was reverse of the current system in regards to security. so these could only jump into a more secure space than currently in. so you would need to fly to less secure systems to get to a specific destination..i would think the ships should not be to expensive, but the pricetag be on the maintaining of it. the brokers fees and tax fees should be a lot higher when trading w this ship, and the jumpdrive should be less effecient and have higher consumption, but longer ranges. the last would not be a problem, the ship has no real offensive capabilities, and only jumping up scale in sec makes it highly useless as an offensive weapon.."
"in all honesty i think its more the trade commodity market that needs more looking into than a new class of ship,also i think this belongs more in either the features or ideas section or game development forum, now i fyou proposed a look into the items market at the currant seeding of trade comoditys then i would have supported this but its more like a desperate grab for a new ship than anything"
"well its actually a bit more than just a new ship..its a way to give an alternative to the station hugging.. wokring markets from space chose from a regional list is a bit useless.. if its trading for margin that is, or reselling..this is basically a new feature and based in space without asking for special empire pos.also its a requesting of giving some more attention to a part of the game that has not been tweaked much the last 2-3 years.i am much more interested in fixing all the issues about market and economy, i just wanted the idea in the mix for ships, because the person that mentioned it kind of inspired me about what this could bring to the gameplay.. a commerce ship could bring a lot of stuff to the mix of trade and trader services.."
"i agree, that the corp access needs to be rethought but how about a affiliate status? like a freelancer that your corp likes? so a partial corp access? most corps have a public hanger in their station setup, (of course this is different everywhere) but maybe grantable access to a specific hanger? or better usage rights to pos labs or something, my main is in a mining corp we have friends who do pvp, they wont join, (and we agree) because of the constant wardecs they get, but thats no reason not to let them have some access, we make bpc of cruise missiles, and would like to make them available to our friends, we really have to make contracts and station trades constantly? we cant just like give them the hanger key? (just the one mind you) its stupid the way that is restrictive, but i agree that you work for one corp, and one only but where is the \"friends of corp x\" types of options? in no way would they be working for us, or even part of our corp, but you have friends and then you have family, why is there no access options for friends?"
"its exactly things like this you would get if you could simply wear more corp uniforms than one..and switching between uniforms did not have the time limit of 24 hours.with such a feature the 24 hour limit might even be moved to 48 hours, and that would be how long to resign from a corp affiliation..the only issue is how to handle being in a friendly and in an enemy corp.this brings up the issue of how wardecs would work. they should somehow be more consenting, and based on aggression. thus if you made it dependent on both standing to and from, it would basically mean that wardec payments would be paying for standing difference.naturally this would mena standing needed a rather extensive overhaul.. but in effect it would also mean you could be at war with higher ranking members in a corp, while affiliates might be disregarded. you would still have kill rights from the wardec, but you would be able to see the individual standings and disregard the target..this would also make new features of having spies or moles in corps.. in a new manner..the core idea is that accessing more corps then one with your main character would be nice for those that prefer not to use alts and skinjump and even those that opose the whole corp jumping for safety issue."
"si"
"id like it if there was an option to contact the station owner and then a way to bribe him to boot the person out of the station and not allow them to re-dock for eg: 24 hours"
"i'd like it if there was a way to bribe the station owner to shoot at the campers outside the station. let's at least make station camping more interesting."
"thanks for the response guys. it would definitely be best suited on black ops. i also like the idea of having some sort of negative effect. keep em coming"
"awesome idea.the greater number of warfare tactics available will improve pvp on this game dramatically.this would be like an ambush =))).maybe 10km range?"
"having only been here a little over a month or so, i can't say i know what the whole 't20' deal was - though the way everyone says it, it sounds like someone not only robbed fort knox, they stole the fort at the same time.be that as it may - if you don't trust ccp, why are you doing business with them? i certainly am not going to buy a product from a salesman i don't trust, so why are you? i know others have said it in this thread, but i frankly don't see a problem."
"would you rahter have a game where the developers play the game and have a connection to it, or one where they're pushed out and lose touch?there is no issue with misconduct, in recent events like the pos exploit ccp have actually handled things very well.these rumours are only lingering by the voices of the tinfoil brigade."
"they should include a tinfoil hat in the new eve box."
"strongly not supported.i want every ccp employee to play the game. i want them to have 2 alt accounts. i want ccp employees involved in mining, missioning, fleet combat, lo-sec piracy, trading, t1 & t2 manufacturing, ninja-salvaging, mission-ganking, roaming gangs, invention and plexing. i want ccp employees to want to make eve better because they play the game. i want them to have personal knowledge of the various professions so that they can see for themselves where our comments are accurate or justified or self-serving or just whines."
"i find your lack of faith... disturbingwould someone force grip the op please?"
"not supported, if its not broke don't fix it.unless a decent idea is put forward but at the moment comparing the ideas said, i prefer the current way it works. maybe fix the bugs in the buddy list when some people stay as logged on/off when they are off/on."
"and nothing of value was lost."
"sigh, where to start with poor lost niskin. in no particular order...1. ccp does not consider building/trading/mining/industry as something secondary to 0.0 hard core blood in your teeth pvp. if you believe that you are simple wrong. i have met many in ccp that would back me up. so niskin and anyone that thinks eve just exists to support your pvp myopia reality check, eve is about all that other stuff you hate just as much.2. tada o lived in 0.0 for some time. we choose to leave and take advantage of a blend of empire and low sec. anyone that spends any time in low sec knows it is probably harder than 0.0.3. the discussion you keep referencing where you suggest that i stood up, banged on the table and shouted \"ccp, please for the love of gawd let carebears live in 0.0!\" never happened. the idea of opening the regions of 0.0 to a broader range of folks came up and i offered some ideas. honestly, i am more interested in fixing low sec and believe if you take a moment to review my campaign platform you'll see that low sec was my favorite subject.4. for someone that claims to have direct experience with my organization you clearly never spent a minute to understand the core concepts. if ever there was an \"ego-less\" organization i think it has to be beep. that fact that you have choosen to be part of the most \"cult of personality\" org i have ever encountered in a virtual world makes me suspect you have a hard time forming opinions on your own, that you need a rigid structure to survive and i understand how anything that change your very limited view of this amazing virtual world would seem to be a threat.5. it must be hard for you to continually respond to the members of beep that have challenged you with the limited content personal attacks that seem to be all you can muster while none of your org join in your rants. summary, you seem to fixated on me, someone that never ever did anything to you personally and offered you an opportunity to be part of one of the happiest and most committed long term organization in eve. sorry that you have this personal vendetta. but i don't see anything in your compaints that makes me want to rethink my ideas or regret any prior decisions.i remain committed to the following ideas:1. corps exist for the members not the leadership2. alliances exist for the benefit of the member corps.3. eve is for more than hard core pvpers and has one of the most amazing enviroments for folks many would be discounted by the vocal minority of eve pvp bigots as mearly \"carebears\".4. that the csm can make eve better and my background can be valuable to the csm.5. that nonni's in iceland makes the best sandwich in the world!sorry if any of those positions keep you awake at night,issler"
"i endorse this product"
"the sarcasm comment came in a later post, i wasn't aware that it was such when i responded.there were no details that i saw, simply the comment i quoted.i've never been called a troll before, that's a new one, thanks for that. and btw that's not sarcasm. isslers post shows exactly why i would be worried about her having input on 0.0 changes, so i'll address that in that reply in a bit."
"whoever is kept awake of night becaus.. oh wait, i couldn't sleep for a few days after i got home because of the lack of nonni's"
"well if you read my posts you'll see where i said that conflict is the core of eve, not pvp specifically. since you are buds with the devs i'll take your word on their opinions. conflict is what makes the game go around, whether it's ship to ship combat or market trading wars. if there is no conflict things will get stale and eve will grow dull, that is the point.how could anyone possibly believe that, even you? bubbles alone make up half the extra difficulty, the lack of station/gate guns in npc 0.0 and the lack of stations in true 0.0 make up the rest. well i'm glad to hear that isn't how it happened. i am curious what is wrong with low sec though? honestly while eve has some bugs here and there i don't see these glaring issues that we need csm's for.oh i fully understand the core concept of beep, it's not like you are the first implementation of a casual family guild in the world. i don't have a problem with you playing how you want, but given that core concept of your alliance you should be able to see why i would fear you having input on 0.0 issues. living in 0.0 takes commitment and dedication and if that changes then there would be no point in trying to take and hold that space.i've got a bit of forum warrior experience in my 10 years of mmo playing, this is nothing. i still don't see these personal attacks, all along i've been addressing one issue... you having input on 0.0 issues. i have a feeling that if this exchange was occuring in a different thread with a different title you and you pals would be far less concerned with my comments.#1. a well run corp does benefit the membership even if that isn't it's direct focus.#2. same as #1#3. as i pointed out before, we all do that stuff you think that only you do. i mine, i have prod eff 5 and build my own ships. i ratted and ran a hacking site last night while in 0.0. the only difference is when a hostile fleet undocked i went over and helped fight them. the \"carebear\" term isn't about what you do or do not do, it's about the fear of doing them or the thought that avoiding them is possible in this game.#4. possibly so but we will see, as for your background being valuable.. in certain areas sure. in others... well let me point back to that 0.0 vs. low sec comment above.i'm sleeping just fine, but thanks for asking.(quotes shortened due to limited response space)"
"you have no experience with what issler proposed will change. concrete examples. something other than, \"i don't think she has the right idea.\"you never responded to these:now lets get to the crux of your argument. if? now you're not sure?i've seen more than one issue. anyone else?not the important one though, it seems.i doubt no matter how long we wait, that we will ever find this \"concrete evidence\" of isslers horrible ideas. therefore, i'll end with her words from much earlier in this thread.and keep in mind that throughout your lengthy response to this post, you should always remember one vital fact. this was never an issue issler raised to ccp.take your issues up with ccp."
"7 pages and we are finally getting somewhere."
"i think you may have missed the whole essence of \"see and peeing\" it up :))"
"nexus kinnon for ccp president!!!!!!!!"
"get out and take the rest of your genos monkeys with you~~"
"not gonna happen sir"
"~genos best posters~"
"fixed that for ya"
"tbh, lana would make a sexcellent sidekick for pompous.oh and regarding your hypothetical question captain pommmmmm, i've already posted it here before but i'll simplify it a bit; i want you to actively work to remove csm. srsly. that money would be better spent on a marketing dude that could help the devs communicate with customers.either that or have them install a beer fountain somewhere for the next fan fest (less srsly note)."
"i thought that's what you meant misanth but i just wanted to double check. hell, there's no reason why the csm can't be wrecked from within and shown to be the house of cards it is and install a beer fountain at the same time, is there?"
"quotin this cause im down with the capt."
"let's assume i got in, and in a fit of magical wonderment, ccp said \"hey fella, you have the power to do one thing to change any aspect of the game immediately...but it's the only direct change you can make!\"...what would that change be?banning nexus probably doesn't count"
"how about actual pvp training in the turtorials?actually thats too good... i know!!we have spiced wine,spirits,prostitutes and drugs...theres a few things missing-cards, dirty magazines, rumand for another serious idea- some kind of ransoming tool!!!"
"a pvp tutorial is actually a pretty good idea you know :))i don't want to put out too many \"real\" ideas out there in case they get mistaken as an actual platform lol (and as we know, the seeing and peeing things up platform is actually no platform at all, amirite??)"
"ofc your right just adding 'content' to attract the non-believers! *shuns the non-believers*"
"society is not yet ready for our wholesale nihilism and iconoclasm lol, thus we must dress it up with a veneer of content and respectability"
"a very thin veneer would be best. something like the cheap melamine you find in the dustier aisles of home depot."
"i can just imagine it, you know. draw them in with promises of elctoral accountability and piety and blammo! hit them with the c&p stick"
"methinks we need some aggressive marketing."
"send someone to the undock pipe in jita with a disco-phoon. when the party starts, have him spam local with \"vote pompous!\""
"hmmm... /me plots"
"that's an awesome ideai was outside the main station in amarr last night, collecting corpses that were outside. when pressed on what i was doing, i stated that i was grabbing floating voters, ho ho ho...but something with a bit more wow and pizazz like the disco-phoon...that's...that's...that'll create a memorable bit of sloganeering!"
"i have thought of a proposal to take to ccp, if elected:devolve forum control to certain respectable members of the community, and let each forum section be governed by the pillars of the community in each section...and then, let the cat amongst the pigeons by suddenly reassigning see and pee'ers control of md and the md group control of new player's q&a.watch all hell break lose"
"because isd worked so well and there was no kind of favouritism whatsoever.would be funny, but ultimately stupid."
"your character has a corporation history and an alliance history. from a technical perspective i can't imagine it would be difficult to have an alias (name) history too. be kinda cool too."
"signed/couriers are stupid, the rewards are low the hours long and too many of them are scams. sure the mechanic should stay in place cause its always nice to be able to use a real person but if your not going to a trade hub it takes forever for a freighter sized contract to move, just because the rewards put up are never going to be nearly enough to justify going that far out of a trade hub, its like the difference between overnight fedex or usps, id like a npc courier system so i know that it at least someday will get there, as to the npc service cost vs player cost, sure make the npcs more expensive, make them take longer, i dont really care as long as someday my order will get there, having at least a slowboat option will help streamline some of the couriers, i wouldnt mind if my amarr enam took two weeks to come to me but making a 5/m3 contract just looks suspicious, and how many people actually enjoy jumping into jita?120k for npc couriers and 750k for players (contract size for rigged bs and the like)honestly i dont see anything wrong with making fewer jumps into jita, less people need to pick things up = fewer jumps in, less lag"
"not sure what the best methods would be.. maybe granting all players the ability to somehow redistribute skills but at a rather notable loss..it will speed things up for new players and it will give the old players the chance to position into other things..the game has changed rather a lot, and some things you trained long ago made sense, and you basically did it to try something new.i am just saying that looking at the training times and trying to make a plan with a new character really would scare me away if i had not been here for so long..another method could be to create softskill installments in the cybernetics group..basically plugins that grants you a +1 to skills.thus you might have used a plugin in your jumpclone to make it possible to use jumpdrives, but when you change clone the skill and those related to it are lost..these types could speed things up, and create an isk sink, while making a new type of skill strategy game..anyways just think it would be nice with a bit of middle ground in regards to real time training..the learning skills and the basic implants are rather lame in my opinion to.."
"damps could do with a boost too, but the reason these ships suck is that damps, along with other ewar were nerfed a while ago because they were too powerful. caldari recons got boosted to make up for this, but gallete ones didn't. damps on non-damp-specific ships shouldn't be very good, but they should be a powerful tool when fitted on a specialised ewar ship."
"supported despite csm"
"bumping this back up cause it neeeeds to be seeeen!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!this just in, a battleship can \"afterburner tank\" missiles!"
"leave missiles how they are even, boost caldari non-ecm ships in other places.make a ship heading at you or directly away take full damage."
"this comment sums this thread up, unfortunately."
"____currently :graph - standings gains/losses for 8% incrementsplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.currently usedgains formula : standing + 8%*(10-standing)loss formula : standing - 8%*(-10-standing)here above you can see exactly how a +10.0 standing goes towards -10.0, and how a -10.0 standing goes towards +10.0.all losses and gains are 8% gains per horizontal unit, a 8% gain corresponds to a \"good\" l4 storyline.notice just how much a single mistake costs in terms of needed \"recovery\" missions when you're higher at the top.____proposed :graph - corrected formula standings gains/losses for 8% incrementsplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.proposed formula sets:gains : if standings>0, standing + 8%*(10-standing)if standings<0, standing + 8%*(10+standing)losses:if standings>0, standing - 8%*(10-standing)if standings<0, standing - 8%*(10+standing)you see how gains and losses are perfectly balanced, a 8% loss will be almost perfectly countered by a 8% gain, and vice-versa... well, not quite perfectly, you still end up slightly lower... but not much lower, like you do now.____graph - repeating +8%,+8%,+8%,+8%,-8%please visit your user settings to re-enable images.this here above is what happens to your standings if you start at 0.00, then keep on a \"cycle\" of 4 successfull 8% standings gain, then a failure that costs you a 8% standing loss.as you can easily notice, with the old system, you're perpetually stuck... while with the new system, sure, it takes longer to get to good standings, but you get there eventually."
"no, but the standing loss for failing missions should be reduced, as should killing enemy npcs.going from 8.03 to 7.6 or whatever it was for killing a frigate is stupid."
"it doesn't even make much rp sense either, the way it is now...say you are a well-trusted person of a certain agent/corp/faction... you completed hundreds of missions in the past for them flawlessly, and now you fail to complete one mission, making a small mistake, and you need to complete dozens, maybe hundreds of missions again before you have the same amount of trust ?conversely, you are the branded enemy of an empire, you destroyed countless ships, foiled countless plans they made... and you just need to run a couple of small errands for their friends, and you are automatically all buddy-buddy with them again ?!?___no, it just doesn't make any sense to have a certain percentage of \"trust lost\" not be relatively repaired by the same amount of \"trust gained\" later on.a 10% standings gain, then a 10% standings loss, that should bring you almost to the same point you were before.conversely, a 10% standings loss should be almost completely countered by a 10% standings gain.note: if you want to get to the exact same point, it would be a 10% gain and a 9.090909% loss for perfect equivalence.the above proposal does exactly that.and now, you can have the failure penalty for a mission be exactly the same as (or even higher than) the reward you get if you complete it, and still not break anything.edit: added support"
"yep.... major fix needed.makes sense with what you got going on there for math... but then it also looks the same with the corrections...standings need to be easily improved just as easily lost... at a minimum for me."
"i don't think it's stupid. a frigate has hundreds or thousands of crewman, all of them will die a horrible death in space. they can't be burried, their families will never see them. children will lose their daddys, wifes their beloved husbands. all that relatives will go to their local government office and complain about their deaths. actually the empire should hate you if you kill a frigate and not like you a little bit less."
"heh, i dropped from 0.02 sec to -0.7 security by accidentally firing off an ecm burst at a station. yet it took me a month of mission running to get that 0.02...meh, guess i should train more social skills. respec ftw!"
"signed"
"as many people will point out, i'm not a goon :)as for sniping setups with the nag, it's not terribly hard to get it sniping with both weapons (missile rigs + 1 te/tracking computer) but it suffers from the same problem as a regular nag in that it has the weakest tank by far and the least dps. the real problem is that sniping with cap torps means you have to shoot a different primary (in order to give your missiles time to hit the target, such as firing at the secondary / tertiary) while your guns should be on the primary. you can obviously just say **** it and fire your guns at the same target but with more than handful of nags this means you really need 3 different primaries.anyone with half a brain (sorry yaay you don't count) can see that the nag is the worst dread by a large margin, combine this with the fact that minmatar bses are completely terrible in fleets and you really have no reason to train for minmatar caps (unless you're an awesome person who actually likes suicide triage repping poses and feel like wasting a bs v for it). all 3 other dreads are unique and have different reasons for people training for them, the nag does not. if you're in a nidhoggur pilot it's actually faster in training time to train for a revelation/moros and then you have amazing bses and t2 large guns for a decent race of battleships (not to mention a dread that's almost literally twice as good). i can not think of a single (logical, looks dont count) reason anyone would want to train for a naglfar."
"sold my minmatar cap pilot ages ago, never looked back. completely unsurprised that naglfars are still worthless."
"yet, we're here, i should have one coming out from an oven in 3 weeks. i know it's the worst dread.i was talking with a corp mate few day ago, he shield tanks his naglfar and 4 damage mods in the lows to stay competitive.his position on numerous pos kill mails was far from the top of the list. and thats what 4 damage mods and compromised tank.- nid is armor tank- thats about 18-20days of training time to be able to use capital shield booster for comparative damage with dam mods.- another 15-17days of training time for split weapon system.we're not talking about regular skills needed for split weapon of a typhoon for example, we're talking capitals skills.this is a bad joke.needless to say i'm still going minmatar all the way. i doubt i'd be spending extra time to be able to shield tank it, because split weapon system is enough."
"i understand logging of when an enemy force would otherwise not catch you anyway, but the current state of people logging of in buffer tanked haulers/freighters at gates is stupid. let me outline a few stupid scenarios, where we are helped out by our best friends who's names wont be mentioned (serious love y'all).we had just had a fight on gate, the carrier warped to the gate, carrier.....with 15minute aggro.....disconnects and warps to an e-safe. we scan him down, we tackle him, we start killing him. he warps back to station?!?!?!?!?!?!?! wtf? i assume what happened here is when he logged back in his client forced him to continue warping to where he was even though he had a hic pointing him.a providence runs one of our camps by logging off, then logging of right after he logs on so he doesn't warp back to the gate. <- does this not sound like an exploit to you?and all the time we have buffer tanked haulers logging off right after they jump through gates so they don't have 15min aggro, and if they use the above \"trick\" its impossible to catch them.so, i propose a fix. once you are agressed (someone is attacking you) then your ship will not dissapear until the hostiles stop aggroing you. your ship will continue to attempt to warp off to another safe, so if the hostiles have horrible tackle, its their bad luck.this isn't a \"nerf logging off\" thread, its a \"fix logging off\" and \"stop the people from abusing logging off\" thread."
"sounds like a whole lot of assumptions and a whine post.and your solution is ridiculous....not supported."
"semi-whine, but i don't see any assumptions.propose a better solution, if it sounds good then ill put it in the op."
"originally i'd support the following statement:\"players should be 100% sure that their ships are safe when logging off\"ways to accomplish that would be docking in station or logging at a safe spot/friendly pos.however due to disconnects and socket closures it may not be 'fair'. thus the compromise.fixing the double-log trick would definitely help, but ships, even when aggressed, need to disappear eventually."
"op: then come up with a solution that makes sense.what you currently propose would make interdiction pointless and alot of people would complain of being unable to log out all because of aggro.. never mind the shooting part.speaking of which... what happens if they disconnect due to internet access... and then you got a crapton of petitioners asking for there stuff back."
"ok, then how about using the \"log off\" or \"quit game\" buttons send a \"special\" packet to the server causing the logoff to be treated differently. yes we will have people yanking the cord out of their walls, but at least its more trouble for them. and that means their alts will dc as well."
"why would it make dictors pointless? at least something needs to be done about people logging off right after jumping. and agro timers disapearing after jumping also shouldnt happen."
"well they already fixed the timers getting killed after jumping. atleast they dont reimburse for losses from it (yes, i jumped an ishtar warped to safespot and logged off due to rl, logged back in several hours later in high sec)anyways, claiming that people that lose connection during a fight should be able to save their asses with really valid, but how many times have you gotten a disco exactly after jumping through a gate into an enemy camp?yes i agree those people that do lose their connection like that are wronged, but lets face it atm a lot more people are \"exploiting\" this humanitarian trait of ccps then it actually helps.so yeah, lets try and get these log-off tricks stopped! make some constructive suggestions if you don't like the ones already posted, or come up with some critique points"
"5 to 6 times... but not at a gate camp.living where i live... internet access is at best....random stability.point is you can't predict when...how..or where..ccp cannot and will not be able to know the difference.trust me... tcp/ip dictates it that way... pain in the ass.so yes... constructive suggestions are needed... but don't say crap such as \"aggro locks them on the grid\" type things... that's just stupid.if you really want a balanced fix for the jump gate.if: player drops off during jump... force them back to the previous system.else: they arrive right where they came in at.just like usual."
"how about decreasing the time you stay in space to say, 20 seconds. and giving agro on ships that are attacked even if player is not logged in.imo it really is tough luck for people that get disconnected and ganked. it's part of the game that you die every so often, no matter how smart you play it, but people use all these \"features\" in a way they were not meant to be."
"fully supported! freighters should not be able to travel through lowsec with total impunity, and ctrl+q should not be a valid substitute for intelligence or skill. this is actually a really nice solution to the issue. seriously, compare the number of times you log out of eve intentionally, to the number of times your internet dies or you otherwise lose connection. i meanw hat are the chances of someone actually losing connection moments after jumping through a gate, just in time to save their freighter from a large camp.anyway, if you made all modules stay online when you lose connection, that would allow people who are winning a fight when they ctd, to actually survive."
"this tactic is driving my corp and myself nuts. our last contract against kenzoku(bob) i think 3 freigters used this trick. they jumped in saw one of us at a gate ctrl q'd and waited hours or even days to log back in. when they did they ctrl q'd again then logged back in putting them 1,000,000km away from the spot they got \"dropped\" at. we managed to catch one write up to follow next week in c&p if any one is interested. not only that kenzoku ships would fly blind into our scouts and ctrl q before any one could show up to gank them. current record is 13'ish drops in a single day. some of them were group drops where 2-3 would jump threw into a patrol and \"drop\" connection. and the best part is they would say by first or smack us with alts after they had logged. mechanics need to change as it stands if you are buffer tanked and caught at a gate as long as you are cloaked ctrl q and just hope the fleet doesnt have the dps to gank you.as too the issue of mass petitions as it stands if you do lose a ship due to a dc which has happened to me a few times with the pesky socket closed eror there is not enough evidence to reimburse the ship.:edit: spelling"
"approved.having once had the experience setting up a ~20 industrial pos chain, i feel your pain. while balancing is an issue, particularly in relating to avoiding 0.0 pos spamming, i think the idea itself has a great deal of merit."
"i'm not an awox alt, but i play on on tv, and i support this topic."
"i'm not an awox alt, but i am one of someone else's in this post, and i support this topic."
"it's not a terrible proposal, but op is being a jerkass, so /not supported."
"i'm not an awox alt, and i support this topic."
"signed"
"kb are about intel, just as much as looking over the last fighti for one do not support this, as a waste of ccp's time... and the fact some corps/alliances may prefer not to have their kb open for all to see"
"if a player wants to leave my corp... fine... im not going to force any members in my corp to do anything they don't want.but there should be a penalty for leaving during war time.you need to give them an exit route.... so put a price tag on it."
"sick bastards"
"am i the only one who was looking for the backdoor bandit in this thread? =\"
"what's wrong with a buff to the research industry? sure, it has it's share of congestion problems, but i've posted thoughts on how to help remedy this in another thread (empire slots only available when you have a corp office rented in the station for example)they would add to the game in the same way that named t1 mods add to it; sometimes you fit a named damage control instead of t2 as you don't have the resources available to make t2 work with your fit. named t1 ships would provide for exactly the same niche, and would work as a boost for t1 production (whereas currently there's only a market for battlecruisers, battleships and capitals in t1, with almost everything else really being t2 & invention).this is a non-issue, as your argument here suggests that you feel ccp should never add anything new into the game, something i'm fairly confident you're entirely alone in believing.most t2 ships are simply specialised t1 ships, not necessarily \"better\" ships. due to the fact that they usually have improved resists (something i think named t1 should not have), people often prefer to use them for purposes outside their intended roles. examples abound within the assault frigate class, comparing for example a retribution & vengeance against it's t1 counterpart.not at all. we don't have named t2 mods, why would it follow that we would need named t2 ships? t2 is different, not necessarily better remember?any new idea will create balance issues and it will always take time to address these issues no matter what the proposal is. as for your comment about overpowering frigates against cruisers or cruisers against battlecruisers etc, this simply wouldn't be the case. we're talking about marginal changes to ships based on research that render them preferable to their raw t1 counterparts. for example, the current megathron:687.5 cpu19375 pgu7764 shield8301 armor9375 hull7031 capacitora named version of this ship might simply increase one of these attributes, perhaps increasing it's capactior by 3% or so, or adding 1% to it's cpu. the changes should be slight and rather than simply a sliding scale (more research = better), different variants of the hull should provide different benefits.given the average megathron setup, the most desirable \"named\" version would probably be one that gave it something as small as another 10 cpu, and this isn't exactly a game-breaking change when you consider that each and every t1 ship could be researched and then produced in exactly the same way."
"lol youre a tripper"
"well, he is a csm candidate. ^^"
"or, you could get named upgrades (what rigs where suppose to be\" an use a system similar to tech 3.akarifter upgrade (1 of 5)2 less low slots for 1 high (and 1 turret) and 50% more shield hp.and that sort of stuff.then these named changes to ships could be droped?"
"corp jumping to evade war-dec - exploitcorp jumping to get involved in a war-dec - acceptable.yes..anything can be abused... but not likely gonna throw a fit about it."
"there's a simple solution.during a war-dec, neither corp can change memberships until the war ends.problem solved."
"actually, it is the other way arround according to ccp.of course they don't care if another member joins the 20 who allready are at war with you, but if 20 join the single member corp who wardecced another corp, it isnt allowed."
"both should be fixed, but i doubt it will happen."
"yes, i fully support declaring it an exploit to corp-hop in order to avoid war decs. it is already an exploit to join a corp involved in a war in order to gank people instantly."
"every time i read one of these painful threads about war decs i love 0.0 more."
"well, it's an exploit if they corp jump just to kill you, then leave the corp so you can't fight back without getting concorded. it's stupid."
"with the new 24 hour skill queue, it seems to me that ccp is missing out on an obvious new skill: \"advanced learning\" or something similar, where each skill level would add 20% to the skill queue length. depending on how you calculate those percentages you could get to either 48 or a bit above 57 hours at level v.make it expensive and high ranking, and even perhaps an item in lp store, if you don't want all but the more dedicated players to 'use' that long a skill queue.best regardsgil w."
"the miners understand where i'm going with this :), that's the important thing.so, make it not like a hulk at all. give it a distinct capital-class ship look and feel. and decent defences. something that will take care of nulsec rats at least. not because we're fishing for nulsec rats, just so we can keep mining without having to scramble and leave the belt. we don't scramble and leave the belt in hi-sec, we just sick the drones on the rats.this ship needs a clone vat. but it's not a combat support ship, it's not a mining support ship. it doesn't need 5 clone vats. only the one, for the pilot. can we agree on that without making a frowny face and start blubbering about how i want to mine the whole belt empty in 1.0 space and make free isk? thank you. much appreciated.ideally, there would be one for every faction. why? because it would add four beautiful new space frames to the inventory. maybe that can't be woven into the ore story line [but i can do that easy, surely ccp would think nothing of having the factions commissioning a miner from ore for each of the races]. some details would be faction-specific. happens all the time.vast amounts of belts, that are now not mined, would become accessible. obviously a miner in a ship like this would expose themselves to great risk. if the reward was greater access to exotics, it would help balance out the risk/reward factor. i cannot possibly fathom how a nicely balanced, well-equipped capital miner, with the ability to survive in nulsec systems would be asking too much. nothing about it would be free, nobody who would be looking into flying one would expect it to be free.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"now there, i agree fully. lowsec mining is utter garbage at present, and will be until they put some worthwhile ores there - the single worst ore in the game, jaspet, is a lowsec ore. the supply of ore at present is skewed badly, and miners, especially in lowsec, are taking the worst of it. thing is, a new exhumer won't solve that. you want to solve that, push for widespread changes to the supply lines of eve, not for a better ship to supply 60% of the ore."
"hmm well if there were a 66% increase in the demand for mined minerals, i suspect the the problem would at least partly correct itself..."
"it's not just a skin difference, it's a mechanical difference. in order to build a sleipnir, you need a cyclone as one component. in order to invent it, you need cyclone bpcs. if you change the skin, you change the entire manufacturing process as well, and add a good 15 million to the per-ship costs of whichever ships you \"upgrade\". they're not willing to do that just to change the appearance of some command ships. ask for new ships, maybe, but asking to change the old ones is a lot more of a change than you think it is, and it's not justifiable. not supported."
"just for info, this thread can go inactive now...ccp will release this in apocryptica...read in this blog all at the bottom (you need to ctrl+a the page because they written it in the same colour as the background of the page, so you might miss it)"
"oh **** yes....... i cant believe we don't have something like this already."
"if they ever get the lag monster under control and make ejecting something you have to do manually, then you might see that sort of thing come into gameplay.personally i'd be very satisfied with wrecks being actual wreck rather than some generic image with a loot can in it. something that you can't just quick drag into your cargo hold and then warp off with.something you have to repair and fly or tow back or chop up and haul back to station.maybe someday."
"not supported.a station is already a player controlled marketplace.... all your doing is dropping \"mini-stations\" all over the place.id rather have a crazy busy jita hub than a crapton of ships parked and anchored at a stargate... gtfomw so i can move on through please.: o p"
"5. that nonni's in iceland makes the best sandwich in the world!i endorse this productnonnabiti, my favorite place in reykjavik for a bacon sub with nonna sauce and onions only.and, the bill clinton hotdogs!, just around the corner of nonna :)and ofcourse krua thai i miss iceland,... will be back in april or may :)edit: lets lock this topic with a good thought,... icelandic food/ restaurants"
"you tell em! back in my day games played us! and we *liked* it that way!"
"stupid funny!"
"noooo isd are lamethey once convod me and, despite their not being in my address book, got through to me immediately. i did not like that, needless to say. i appreciate your constructive comments tho nexus :)"
"may i have a list please of your public chatrooms so i might come do some canvassing with the personal touchi will answer your questions, address your concerns and make you laughso please post the name of your chatroom below so that we might discuss things together (ingame)thank you :)"
"just come to any channel i'm opped in so i can have the satisfaction of banning you, if not on the forums, but at least it's something."
"will do, if it'll make you destress a bit :) give me names pls so that you might kick me"
"i was looking at this thread. then i saw this.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.heh"
"zing"
"closing in on page 9 of nothing, way to go"
"i should moderate c&p so we will have good threads like 'nexus kinnon for ccp president' instead of **** threads like this."
"pompous isnt even running for ccp president...you should go to caod for ccp presidency campaign.if you live, nexus kinnon can have my vote for president!"
"*apu-voice enabled*caod is the ccp janitor of the year award, ccp president is in the mission running section. if you want to run for secretary, the roleplaying parts of this forum will be helpful. for the uncle scrooges in us, there's a market discussion section.thank you, come again. *apu-voice disabled*"
"lolballista, i'm actually running for chairman i hope - because from a greater height i can see and pee over things more!"
"ccccombobreaker! you ruined my great gift to you."
"...oops.../me didn't mean for things to end up this way, wonders if he can ever be forgiven :(e: sorry for being a pompous arse and not seeing the gift for what it is, am incredibly contrite >.<"
"dedicated my downtime to making sure everyone would see the vote pompous sig. posted (relevant?) posts in every thread on c&p.just as i was about to fill up the whole first page with my name at the end, to be able to do a massive /thread on this whole section and dedicate it all to you.. you broke it!"
"my god lol, it's full of posts...!!that is truly impressive - join my corp briefly so i can award you a medal and then you can go back to rabble rabble rabble and show it off :d"
"as much as that would look awsome on my corp history, and i'd love that badge, i think i'd have to pass. i kinda got obligations. this happens to be a serious corp."
"no worries - thought that might be the case however, it'll be waiting here for the day when you change your mind! f.e.: serious corp???"
"as serious as i can be."
"im-a gonna come by youl today, hope to see you there :de: when does the election actually start lol"
"wasn't it held like.. very recently?atm misanth is about to head into 0.0, in a executioner with 3 nano 1 mwd (all t1), named \"vote pompous!\". as you said in the hagilur-thread.. catch me if you can. gonna give maximim exposure, before i'm exposed to maximum.. damage. got a feeling i'll go down, and do it hard."
"ewww kos was not fun, i hope your not going back there!!!"
"good stuff misanth, spread the word before having your atoms spread out everywhere!i think hagilur > amamake > rancer > egghelende might be the route of choice this weekend :d"
"~the beauty of adblock~"
"also try channels-syn- public garmonismif you feel like getting banned tia"
"vote pompousi have learnt a vote for pompous is a vote for a better future that can meet the demands of all who exist in it.so vote pompous, and make good on your will to make things better.edit - is that good enough mr pompous? is that your 20 million isk there? perhaps some more divulgence on how utterly amazing in *** you are."
"that's smashing! monies to you? :d"
"i will join your chats within the houri fully expect to get kicked, but preempting you by saying that if you post here that you kicked me you lose rep and are a massive gankwad macrojerk...just saying, is all"
"20:13 - tsia: dude20:13 - tsia: syn public20:13 - tsia: captain pompous > <i><b><u>vote pompous</u> , mail me any concerns or issues you would like raising (no hatemail pls, i have a delicate disposition ^^)</b></i>20:13 - litheye: so that ***got actually joined the channel20:13 - tsia: yes20:13 - tsia: then left.yes, mad props"
"i did hang around, but your slow friends took too long to type that, i'm afraid :("
"can we prevent csm runners/members from posting in c&p? come on! it's for a good cause."
"and your still failing to understand why your concern is almost a non issue. obviously the issue isnt ccp since they can track it anyway, and yes obviously the client would need to be extended so players can see and search name history. however this is not as complicated as your making it. as i already said, and ill repeat it now so that hopefully you will actually read (and understand) this time. the player search feature in-game now would be extended to search past character names, in addition a players past names would appear in the player info window. there's no need to make some big huge new agent driven thing just to get some simple information.yeah.. some strange mishap called security. twisted? no, common sense. i'll give you an example, wouldn't it be cool if players could join a new corporation after they have already joined one? oh wait.. they can. but zomg that's horrible because now you can't know what corporation's that player was in before! oh wait, yes you can, it shows it in the user info list. the server didn't have to give you uber l33t player id information for you to know that, it just sent you only want you needed to know.negative, the users new name would be listed in your addressbook replacing the old name, they could even add a little visual cue to notify you that the player had changed names recently. and again you can right click on the name, get info, and see what prior names it held."
"you can change your portrait already. your standings, reputation, and all other in-game mechanics would not change. as we have pointed out already, name history would be searchable, so this really doesn't impact anything besides cosmetics."
"working as designed - no change is needed."
"this."
"i agree some changes need to be made. particularly looking into the future, keeping the game attractive to new players. in addition it's simply not sustainable longterm to just keep on adding more skills onto the list. it's the same mentality other mmo's have with the \"oh we will just increase the level cap and put the new content there\", you can't do that for long before you ruin the game. a major refactoring is required eventually if the goal is to keep the game going long into the future."
"it's actually the exact opposite mentality."
"actually, that mentality is dead on. the only difference is that what you really have is a tree of leveling skills, and not a single, linear branch like in most level based games. now, instead of \"look, everybody can now be a level 80 instead of 70\", we hear \"you fly battleships? you can use capitals. but remember, first you have to get to battleships.\"for example, before caps were introduced you could have hit the racial ships level cap (bs v, etc.), and then the new content (capitals) was put beyond the new, raised level cap. you still have to 'grind' through battleships to get to capitals, it's just that everybody grinds at roughly the same speed due to the time (thus time being a grind in eve)."
"any kind of customization/personalization to the look of ships would be a nice touch."
"and now for something completely different: i'm really getting into shipbuilding and already made some 'legitimate' isk from this new side of my character, kat savage but i'd really like to have a go at building from scratch or adapting an existing design to produce my own 'azinko' variant ship designs (azinko fleet vexor for example, with an extra med slot and unique name) and, assuming i need skills like research, how do i write my own blueprints from scratch? do i need a blueprint to invent a new variant or can start with a blank sheet of paper and design a completely new ship design like the 'azinko blak ryno' for example?"
"couldn't have said it better than myself... wait... i did... just not as eloquently.nicely said."
"you know in the march release i'm sure i read something about \"mysterious wormholes to other reagions\"....?i actually think that empire space would be more interesting with a bit more traffic (outside jita). so long as the servers could hack it that is but ccp seem to know whats going on in that area."
"can't appear to find the finalised meeting minutes - they available yet?"
"we got the ccp version today, undergoing some minor tweaking so hopefully due later today."
"evil - i'm somewhat on the fence on your proposal, and so is the playerbase it seems. while you do have 54 supports, you also have 135 replies in total, of which about 20 are you bumping the thread and most of the rest against it. basically a 50/50 split after you take into account the people who also supported without a thumbs up. convince more people to give it a thumbs up and i'll consider backing it."
"i already gave my opinion in the thread. i will also vote no for such suggestion should anybody from the csm pick it up."
"please add minmatar & balance to the issues list, will write document when i get home"
"i haven't had time to brush up the mission timer topic nor work out further details and integrate player feedback so i rather pass it till next meeting, as the reactions have shown quite a few good suggestions but also a bit of criticism which i need to find a solution for."
"no"
"so constructive, i guess if all else fails just disagree without reason.i will say, i do like that quote about not being paranoid."
"1. i don't think it's a bad idea per se. i just don't think enough people think it's a good idea for me to champion it, which leads on to:2. just because other people are willing to champion things with less support doesn't mean i will. there's 7 other csm's who may take up the cause with this amount of support (lavista has already said no), but at this point i won't. if one of those csm's brought the issue up for a vote, then i would look at it like every other issue brought up and vote accordingly."
"its a good idea and here is a suggestionccp could give each character a certain code so even if you change the name of your character the buddy list and stuff will automaticly change it to the right name so you wount get any misleads in your buddy list, allso if someone was to change that name how would it still exist as a charater when it doesnt belong to anyone? :djust my 2 cents for help towards the character name change"
"i was against this, but after the arguments found here i am for this. as long as the cost increases per name change and the name change is listed in the players information sheet somewhere viewable by everyone.i don't see a whole lot of people doing this as it would mess with your killboard stats. this would be a nice option for fcs that find themselves insta-primary or people named \"aaaa\" that always get insta primaried in fleet fights :)"
"what is the magic number of supports before you \"champion\" an idea? this thread has 142 posts and 57 supports. i went through all 5 pages and lost count at around 50 posts made by people who already ticked support. so it is more like 92 posts and 57 suports which is a very good number.this topic is much more supported than factional warfare complex spawning that got three total replies or a useless change like adding dumb stripes to medalsso what you are saying is that this topic is more popular and supported by more players than lots of other topics, but you do not wish to support it because you are too much of a ***** to take a side? you represent the people of eve and talk to ccp for us, if the people of eve support adding in elves to eve then that is what you bring up. if you do not wish to listen to the people and champion the people's ideas then gtfo out of the csm."
"i am glad people do not let this up. it has been years, and ccp pretty much ignored, and swept it under the rug. the pos as it is now needs to be re-examined and revamped. honestly, they cant screw it up, the ccp that is, they can no, simply because it is so screwed up already that making it worse would be like going back to 2004. anyway, all people who need this, whatever their affiliation might be, should contact the csm they have voted for, and support the pos overhaul, point them to these boards, you know, just in case they are \"too busy\" and forgot about the \"funny pos thing\" as ccp has called."
"i support this issue mainly because it should have been done like 1 year ago and ccp dropped the ball on this issue and sov in general."
"what about drone mods? any news on this yet?"
"the underlined bits are priceless, so basically what you are telling us, the players of eve, many of whom voted for you, is this: \"don't rock the boat.\" truly priceless, you do not want to risk a relationship with ccp? just listen to yourself for a second, whom do you represent? ccp? or the players of eve? this is truly an example of being too comfortable, and now that you know you will not be going to the next csm you tell us the truth, your relationship with ccp is more important to you than what your duties as the csm! why would you even say such a thing? why would you even come out and admit that csm has no ability whatsoever to represent the players, because, if we go by your statements, csm does not want to risk it! furthermore, you are comparing a polite and pointed demands that people have been aiming at ccp regarding this issue to a behavior of a spoiled child? you joking right? this has been going on for years now, over two years has passed, and i have not seen one flame, one troll from the community - the only reason you would say something like this is to reduce the validity of the need for the pos rewamp. spoiled children? really? the developers did not even give csm a time of day on this issue, they chose to call it a \"funny pos thing\" and all you are doing is reiterating the point that reduces a significant issue by renaming it; thus proving all those people on forums who say that csm has no ability to do anything whatsoever. they can't even garner respect from ccp to call an issue what it is, a pos problem, and resort to the diminutive and reductive lexical semantics of the \"funny pos thing\". lv i know you are not running for the next csm, and you had my support for the two terms that you have served, and i know ccp refusing you entry due to your age, but, i am afraid from the above statements your age does show. you did not think things through before you posted, and painted yourself into a corner, i am afraid. i do not know what you meant to say, but what you did say was pretty much this: \"ccp is a big daddy, i want big daddy to love me, and i want him to love me better, so i will take the big daddy's side, even if it means going against other kids. and, it does not matter that the other kids are the ones who asked me to help them with the big daddy, because he was not so nice to them.\"the pos has to become a priority to ccp, it has been a huge drain on resources, and just patching the code does not work. if it is impossible to patch the code, then ccp should start working on the new code! what a concept, i know! and, when the new code for pos is ready, implement it. csm should keep this alive for a simple fact that pos - as it is - affects pretty much everyone in the game, and making it better, more streamlined, more user friendly, more believable, will only improve the game in the long run. ccp is happy to spend their time on all sorts of things, why not dedicate a small team to slowly trudge and make a pos better? because, i guess, they do not have to deal with the pos garbage every day, and it is easier to have a defective, if working pos, than to actually have a fully functional structure in place. well, i really hope csm would stop being ccp's lap dog and show some backbone. otherwise, i would say, the whole thing was an exercise in futility. so far, the important stuff, csm has failed at it. oh, and it is nice to be back after a month away from eve....."
"so what is it going to take to get some csm support on this issue???"
"importable/exportable block listit's harrassing to block the same people 2 or 3 times( or more ) ( and theres just too many scammers so its harrassing to block them on every char ) , so it would be nice to be able to export/import the block list from/to other charactersopinions ?"
"as long as it's easy to implement, sure."
"first off, an interesting article. i am one of the people that see macro mining as a problem. why? well, i see a big feature of eve is it's player based economy. when people are able to mine vast amounts with no limits they can create a monopoly over ore prices, minerals, etc. monopolies are not allowed in most real life countries, so i think in a game with a market based aspect their should be at least some measures to at least make them harder to pull off. monopolies shaft people, and most players get shafted by macro mining. regardless of whether or not people have access to macro mining programs, not all people will have the best resources to run a pc 23 hours a day with the client open. (playing on a family computer for example.) so what do they say? i happen to be in group of people that use macro miners. they usually pull up this comment from the link at the beginning of my reply.so this is what i think would be a good first step: see if we can get ccp to revise the eula,that way there will be at least some clarity of it being \"not okay\". if newer players are told that macro mining is okay by their friend and shown the current section 7 of the eula, it probably won't help the problem. sure, it's not going to get all macro miners banned,etc...however this might be a helpful first step in the right direction. just for ideas sake, here's the similar statement from the wow eula:eve online eula"
"so if you are truly macro-hunting and someone reacts as you stated above, calling you names, etc. would you apologize for the gank and reimburse him for his lost equipment? (insert laughter here) you may apologize, but the reimbursement would most likely be out of the question."
"if the queue comes in the form of certificates it would be like ccp laughing out loud in your face....it would prolly make me rage quit"
"as much as i hate to say it,,,this seems pretty accurate"
"the csm is the dummy-hand at the bridge table. i will not waste effort in here again. fly safe"
"so what happened, i have been gone a month, and since then ccp did not even have pip come out to the public. is csm pushing for the detailed information regarding what happened or what? anyone knows what the deal is? other than the polite noises from csm and ccp? and, has this become a dead issue as well, simply because ccp knows if they keep quiet long enough we will just go away. okie dokie..."
"please just read the minutes. it says clearly that by the end of january/start of february, a detailed dev-blog will be released."
"well gee whiz, i had no idea that all you had to do in the csm was make ginormous posts about such important topics! i have experience doing things like that too, don'cha know. maybe i should use my abilities as a maverick to bring some fresh blood into the csm next time the election rolls around. i've got some great ideas that can really change new eden around, like banning that nasty pax amarria book and making podding illegal (it's too much like abortion!). don't forget to vote for me next time the election is here!oh, and ankhewhateveryournameis, you don't seem too popular. i'd stop sounding so carebearish. go and take a lesson from ronald reagan and maybe you can be a maverick like me!"
"i'm encountering the same issues - ccp seem to want everyone to take sides, so the prevalence of faction missions is much higher than it used to be. but it's not just the standing loss, it's the lack of bounties that i don't like. plus many of the faction missions i've tried are insane: \"smash the suppliers\" (level 4) is the most difficult mission i've come across and even with a couple of buddies to help out we couldn't do it.i'd like to see faction missions to only become available from certain agents, say, intelligence. if someone chooses to do them, that's fine. i personally prefer missions with bounties, as i don't usually bother to salvage. some added flexibility in choosing missions would be welcome - wanting to do combat and getting courier or mining missions is very frustrating. ccp should check their stats on which missions are being turned down the most oh, and i hope that these new 'epic mission arcs' aren't all faction missions..."
"i reject!no seriously missioning mechanics are generally fine, except standing mechanics for 0.0 factions, say you have been living in low sec/hi sec and you want to make a natural move on your career and go to 0.0 but you notice you have -10 standings for every pirate faction, except mordu's maybe, who have like 1 level 4 agent. which means missioning in 0.0 is pretty closed for you, forever. i think this is a bit of a real problem there, if any."
"gas missionsyou show you know nothing about gas missions. you are not allowed to use more than 1 harvester. 425 bits of gas, 1 bit every 30 seconds, thats 212.5 minutes or 3.541666666 hours for a single mission that pays no better than a 90 minute mining mission. if you use an industrial ship you can go non stop, if you use a smaller ship you must add in drop offs at the local station and dont forget if you jet can it, you can loose your can in 2 hours <lots of fun!>starting any mission before down timemining missions being done partially before down time are a bad thing because at dt the mission resets and you have to start alllllllllllllllllllll overrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrragents giving wrong mission typesthis is a personal pet peeve of mine. i'm the corp industrialist, i can l3 kill mission but i'd rather l4 mining missions. why would an industrial agent (mining or manufacturing) need a kill mission done?undesired faction missionseve is a sand box, why are you being so negative on someone elses sand box? everyone has the right to play any way they choose within the rules and if having good faction with all factions is someones goal that is their choice. i support the portion where an agent should give the missions that they are set to give and not other genre ie security agents should not give mining missions and mining agents should not give security missions. ideamy suggestion on this would be to have (perhaps scaling with your faction to the npc agents corp) a list of missions the agent needs to get done. example:rating - missions offered4..........26..........38..........4maybe even a ticker where you can accept all 4 missions or 1 or 2. i understand this is nothing easily implemented but it is something that would be beneficial in the future."
"on a slightly different tangent...why is it that when i am accepting or finishing or refusing the mission i am told what i am saying vsing having a choice?i do not enjoy telling my favorite agent \"yeah this sucked but here's your ore, give me my isk\"options would be nice :)1) yeah, i got there first! here's the ore, how much isk were you able to squeeze out of them? 2) meh, it was okay. i had some trouble but made it back with the goods.3) horrible! dont send me there again."
"no instead you are moving it to an anything within 1km dies.it is supposed be nothing moving within 1km dies. so as they say: \"working as inteneded\""
"as i stated in the other thread, it provides a larger boost to those weapons designed for sub 5km range i.e. blasters and autocannons. it's perfectly logical for a closer target to be easier to hit..."
"negative, frigates class hulls will not be touched by this, cruisers will still have a damage reduction particularly if using, for example, tracking disrupters. battlecruisers and battleships however, are far too large to miss at 1km range.does the '0m' effect count as \"working as intended\"? - probably not."
"fool the effects of tracking will still work as intended and making it difficult to hit targets that are moving fast and near(transversal velocity) however the target should not effectively shrink because of the games in inability to understand how a firing arc actually needs to increase when the distance reduces.in other words objects in the eve do not apaear to be bigger when you get closer to them. instead thay effectively shrinking in size. a typical school maths revision guide on our the behaviour of angles and perspective view will end the matter."
"tl;dr : how does i not hit ?"
"imbalance is never logical."
"what imbalance ???"
"he will eliminate the weakness of low tracking weapons at close range."
"original threadbackgroundnbsi and nrds are the two most common roe employed by sovholder alliances in eve.not blue shoot it is often used because marshalling standings to badguys and protecting your assets and locals is hard with unidentified ships running around.not red dont shoot the another option available but it's very difficult to punish the right \"bad apples\" and not shoot innocents. it's also a constant \"pain\" to adjust standings to small corps (and even individual pilots) who are abusing the sovholders nrds policy.nrds promotes alot of good things. like trade, freedom of movement and generally makes 0.0 more accessible to the broad public (combined with ratting/farming contracts/deals and dockingrights it also generates income for the sovholders). so why isn't it used more?two major factors encourage nbsi over nrds as the \"easy way out\". 1) standings are hard to keep updated properly. especially in large areas with alot of different neutral corps operating on a daily basis. pirates and other \"unknown\" entities needs to be detected visually and hunted down manually, and they can easily hide among \"true\" neutrals in a system. 2) nrds means less targets to shoot at and increases the chance of hostile spies running around uncontested. the goalto make the game more dynamic and increasing the level of interaction between players.by:populating 0.0 by making it more accessible.giving industrialists (even very small corps) a better chance to experience 0.0.giving pirates and pvpers new fun challanges.making sovholding alliances appear more like true powerful factions rather than greedy backscratcher corps.ambitious? maybe... but keep reading."
"my suggestionintroduce new tools to encourage alliances and corps to choose a nrds like stance and open up their space for more players.the toolsautomatic standings: an alliance style sec-status with parameters set by the sovholders. pilots and gangs who do bad stuff in the sov areas are flagged as \"red\" to the sovholders (like in empire). the thresholds are determined by the sovholders. it could be anything from agressing neutrals or entering forbidden/off limit systems, stealing cargo or putting up too large market orders on specific items, opening cynofields, or being reported by sovholding personel, with sufficient roles (like security officers). depending on the transgression it would result in different kinds of flags, like temporary or permanent \"sec-status/standings\" loss (in the end resulting in different responses from the pilots in the sovholding alliance). fees and taxes: different kinds of fees and taxes. like gatefees, jumpbridge fees and dockingfees. ignoring a fee at a gate and jumping in anyway would result in a \"criminal flagging\" towards the sovholding corp. tax on station-trading depandant on the standing of the pilot/corp/alliance. markets: market access controlled by the sovholders, by dynamic taxes in relation to standings (to prevent unrealistic hostile market action, since the sovholders should be able to govern the market as they do their space). licenses: sellable licenses that are bound to the pilot/corp/alliance receiving them. a license could allow access to a certain system or systems, dockingrights at certain stations, rights to trade certain goods or items. permission to shoot neuts (or reds, or blues, whatever the sovholders allow) within the sovholding alliance territory. pos setup, you name it. licenses would be time-limited and/or revokable at any time by the issuing alliance. billboards and information: anchorable billboards and/or automatic messages transmitted to pilots in or entering sovheld systems (for example explaining the rules and directing visitors). different tools would be available at different sov levels.my thoughtstools like the ones above would allow sovholding alliances to have both neutrals and pirates roaming around in their systems. industrial players would have the chance to enjoy 0.0 while being protected by a sovholding alliance (without the regular hassle of rent and obligations to pewpew for their \"masters\"). pirates and evildoers would be rewarded with target rich environments and instead of being hunted by concord or lose empire sec-status they could get fun fights by real breathing players.sovholding alliances would be competing against eachother to provide the best service and securest space for the \"neuts\" and war between alliances would get alot more interesting (since it encourages smaller fleets on disruption missions) and the stakes are even higher than before.this of course is all optional. these are only tools to encourage a more breathing living 0.0. the regular nbsi stance would still be available. even a mixed nbsi, nrds stance could be chosen for different systems and areas.this could also integrated in whatever new sovsystem ccp has on the drawingboard.it would not affect sec-status or dealings in empire or other areas of 0.0 and alliance and corp standings would overrule the parameters set by the sovholders (-10 would always be -10).edit: oh.... the end"
"i think i see what your asking for..it sounds like an overhaul to the standing system in general..would a lot of what you ask for game mechanics wise not be solved if standing had some visibility improvements? so you could change standings with corps, players, alliances and the options would be; private, personal, public. the private would be invisible to the receiver and no collateral impact, the personal would only have impact on the receiver and not further up, the public would have derivative impact all the way through the standing system.the back and fourth of such a dynamic system would also make it possible to datamine and use infiltration as a method to enter player sov regions. flying false flags.with something like this setup from players would have more meaning, and would create more game, while making things easier to govern out in sov space.i would expect something like that to ease the workload on a combat perspective, but increase the interaction needs, and trust relations governings more..this would also kick at player behaviour in an interesting way../signed because it kicks the beehive figuratively speaking.."
"i see what you're going for. as a member of an independent corp in 0.0 that is normally the \"neutral\" in the nbsi equation is a very enticing. however.... i don't know. despite the difficulties of being constantly hunted and shot at, i truely enjoy 0.0 as the honest, simple, free alternative to the mess of standings and rules that exist in high and low sec. it's hard for me to endorse any idea that clouds the clarity of 0.0; even one that seems to benefit me."
"no need to worry, most will still shoot you. but it would be nice for the nrds people to have some more options."
"good read, my friend."
"as i started reading this i had thoughts of \"oh great... here it comes... another stupid idea\"but honestly i'm stunned... this is a well thought out and very ambitous idea.the only draw back is.... takes a lot of effort to implement this system.you have my thumb sir...and best of luck getting support./signed"
"this, basically. i'd imagine that most alliances won't use this, but for the ones who do it'd be seriously useful. a surprisingly good and interesting idea."
"with the upcoming release of t3 and the previous patches i fear faction ships are becoming more and more irrelevant. i would love to see a boost to their abilities as it would be a great shame to see these ships fade into obscurity.i would like to propose changes to these ships so they remain viable in pvp. one of these changes would be to the vindicator and its mwd bonus, which is more than pointless. i think it would be nice to see a boost to resistance, dps and other area's to ensure people keep making video's with them for years to come."
"would it not be wiser to wait and see how t3 will be like and to observe which influence it will have, before making wild assumptions?with the upcoming release of x (insert anything vague and mostly unknown) i fear that y (insert anything unforeseeable) will happen. let's change y, so that my fear will turn into someone else's nightmare. ;)"
"yes... i love it when people say \"kill tech 2!\" \"omg hax!~ pos exploit tech 2 ftl!\"tech 3 is coming.... read the bloody news posts.... do the research... good things coming this way.... don't put the cart before the horse.you just might be surprised.complain after you have something tangible to complain about.don't always assume ccp is going to screw up.... they do a rather good job imho.... let im do it.^_^(ps: not tying to come off as a hairy troll... just a bit snippy this morning hehe... need my quafe or something)"
"t3 has nothing to do with it. sub-bs faction ships need an overhaul.pirate ships need more pg/cpu.price needs to be substantial reduced. especially on frigates. t2 ships are cheaper and more effective.dramiel needs another turret.guardian angel ships may need their bonuses changes.frigates need to not all be split weapon systems. (hookbill, worm, comet, dramiel all suffer from this)also, it would be nice if non-faction versions of the frigates were introduced (and possibly pirate cruisers/bss) as they are some of the best models in the game. say you buy the bpo through the lp store to make a tier 5 frigate (racial frigate 5 but no supporting skills to bridge the t1-t2 gap) for the standard faction ships and tier 4 for the pirate. (racial frigate 4 for both races) i think this would be the only way to ever make the cruor viable."
"problem is that ecm is all those ships have. if you nerf ecm even a little bit they become like one volley bunching bags. ecm ships have no mentionable ability to tank anything, they're slow and possess no real mentionable offensive capabilities.when you talk about nerfing ecm you could as well speak about nerfing i.e webs or neuts also. at least curse and rapier are wtfpwnage in very similar amount than falcon is. and they can actually hurt people."
"well looking at contracting i thought about why logistics might be an issue..why not try and increase the number of outstanding couriers allowed.so in effect couriers cost say 1/10th of other contracts.i think more courier missions would be made this way and more would go into hauling because filling the trucks would be more likely.."
"*edit*didn't notice you where talking about missions.they should pay much more... and should be categorized in there own department.not forced upon someone doing a ton of combat.nothing says \"haha\" when you get a shipping mission flying a battleship."
"are you talking about courier contracts or courier missions? you seem to be discussing both. please clarify."
"yes i was talking about contracts. not missions.more possible outstanding contracts could increase its usage.."
"penalize overkill & reward fair play.the lack, or decreasing frequency of small gang and small ship pvp is something bemoaned by many players and since there is a symptomatic relation between the reasons for the decline and the natural reaction to the very concept itself, it can only be revitalized if there is an actual reason to do it.i have thought about that for a while without any conclusions, but then i had an idea, which i want to share.one thing that motivates players, apart from doing it just for the sake of doing it, is profit.profit can be made in many ways of course and some ways are salvage and loot from your enemy.my concept is to introduce the concept of dynamic circumstantial calculation into the makeup of both loot and salvage through the concept of overkill.when a large ship blazes away, it's cannon are supposed to shred huge holes into the enemy, smashing anything they hit apart and eventually blowing the enemy ship to pieces. a battleship that destroys a frigate will likely not leave much of anything behind. imagine what happens when you shoot a commuter car with a howitzer. there will be little to nothing left to loot or salvage. just an area littered with smoking pieces.however, if the same commuter car is effectively destroyed by small arms fire like a goon with machinegun, there will be a lot left to be salvaged and looted.the inclusion of such a mechanism might be a small part of the bigger picture of reducing overkill. at least when the involved parties act with a sense of magnitude.destroying something using a smaller ship and smaller weapons should leave more behind to loot and salvage.and i don't mean that the final blow should count. ccp could probably add a max salvage value to all ships and have that value decrease in proportion to each hit. like a hidden hp stat that is affected by the sheer magnitude of damage, not by the added total.even if it should fail to provide the necessary incentive for increased small ship use all by itself, it may easily be a factor eventually and it will provide added reward for sportsmanship.the same could and should be true for missions. blasting enemies that are hopelessly outgunned and outclassed would result in less loot and salvage reward than doing missions in smaller ships, where the mission provides an actual challenge and risk.now you can rip it apart."
"i don't really see how this should help smaller gangs and maybe it's just my impression but the most pvpers out there are doing it for the fun of it rather than for the loot or salvage."
"i like the motivational aspect of this post.it goes to the core of what i believe is a balance flaw in eve.you point at salvage and loot tables, and how they could be integrated better into the players activities. i could not agree more..the most refined way to implement this would be to let the destruction of ships npc and player be the balncer of access to items and everything else.i am unsure if this to some extend is attempted to hardcode.my take would be that when a ship of any type is destroyed each item should be rolled for and its chance to survive be based on how many of that item is active in the entire universe. its chance should also be compared to that items donchian avg, and thus the combat of smaller ships would potentially be a price balancing activity.salvaging would be the same thing, the different type of salvaged goods would be based on availability of the item and that items trading value. so smaller ships spawned lower end salvaged goods and bigger ships the higher priced salvage.from ccp side they should have a general idea of how much of the different items they prefer are in the world, but the above type of system would end up rather self governing, if the price and trade volumes was a factor.the precise mechanics would most likely need some tweaking, but in the end it should become a powerfull and effective solution to the whole loot table problem./supported by principle"
"to me, the most important thing about this is to both punish excessive use of force and to reward those who restrict their use of such force.if you want to capture something for it's value, you don't blow it to smithereens. ccp themselves said, that they consider elements of surgical warfare for future expansions and this could be part of that.in a certain way, this would also address the issue some players have with empire afk mission runners. it would be a lot less profitable to afk run missions in a passive tanked ship that fires away with brutally oversized warheads at small and medium targets. on the other hand, using drones would gain advantage as a tradeoff for the immensely increased risk of salvage ninjas, through the fact that drones do their damage in small portions, instead of huge strikes.maybe some day in the distant future, we might even get different wreck models, where a dominix destroyed by small guns looks like the original ship cross-bred with a swiss cheese and the same ship destroyed by cruise missiles, stealth bombs and extra large artillery looks more like the cloud of debris.supporting my own concept, of course."
"i dig it."
"yes!"
"i would love thisbut some issues would come: i.e. you want to dock quickly cause a dude is pursuing you and the security code ruins your docking speed loland the annoying factor... maybe asking for a code each 30 minutes... and you can \"update\" it whenever you want (so it doesnt come just when you are in a pvp fight for example). it also needs to be placed on a not annoying part of screen and must be small."
"they have to change the sovereignty system first before they can go after macro ice miners. 0.0 would collapse without them.as for regular macro miners, so much of the economy is based off of them that they might have to increase mining/refining yields to consider banning them."
"exactly, make all the yields 2x and ban the macroers. solved."
"where do you want these added?"
"wrong!the prefix \"meta\" (except when used by ccp, <U+FFFD> la \"metalevel\") refers to one level of description \"up\". thus, meta-knowledge is knowledge about knowledge, meta-conversation is a conversation about conversation, and so on. it derives from the greek prefix meaning after. (fun fact: metaphysics is so called because aristotle wrote about it before writing after writing about physics.)you seem to be under the impression that \"meta\" refers to something simply outside the game. in reality, the metagame is the game that occurs about the game - alts, spying, balance issues, etc, no stocks and ipo's.also, you suck at concise explanations of what you are trying to say.edit: dammit, goumindong beat me to it. reading the whole thread before posting an exasperated and intentionally condescending reply ftw."
"he is more right than you are icarus. much more right. the prefix \"meta\" means \"beyond\". the metagame is the \"game within the game\""
"let see if i can clear this up in a short and concise fashion....my use of the term metagame is on point, this also in regards to ipo and stocks, because as a feature ccp has added only a skeleton and the players have had to govern everything else. (somehow i am beginning to see a few advantages in this..)when i am talking about balance issues, and go in every direction its because the missing features are of an emergent nature. it will shift things maybe a bit to fast, and not in the intended direction. what will happen if we get a working npc interbus hauling system?we might all agree that the logistics are a bit of a pain, but to easy solutions might nerf the game beyond repair. that is why i want to ask for a debate on these issues. my personal take is that the motivational tools are shifted poorly. i find it strange that pointing this out brings such an opposition.what about the oil and refinery, and energy consumption parallel is hard to understand?if 0,0 is not operating in fashions akin to real life our intuitive behaviour will be wrong.if bureaucracy and capitalism isnt mainly in secure high populated areas things are a bit askewed. i know its just a game, and entertainment should be king, but bending this to be just a scifi space shooter is not the intention of the ccp as far as i am informed. after watching the fanfest videos i am quite sure about this. so i was posting to open discussion.who knows someone might have some extremely simple and great solutions to these thins.eve is the best virtual world simualtor around these days, because in here stuff actually matter and its not a casual game experience, but a lasting and life demanding one.this simulation will improve if the mechanics of ressources are tweaked. no matter if that is stuff, manpower or currency.fix corp standing mechanismlet stocks be traded on scc market.make more access levels to the api, to customize allowed outside access. (audit of corps)let players rent npc stations.fix all npc facilities prices to react by supply and demand.make system standing dynamic, and even to the point where players can have 0,0 made secure by pulling in concord. push pull of security..have maps updated about changes in sec rating nice colored ones to in effect show where the pvp swarms move about..things of high tech should be build in empire space, to remove risks. no shipyards in real life could survive placement in a warzone. exception might exist in regards to warships considered secret projects.i hope these examples give an idea to what i am thinking.nb: i am all for 0,0 space.. i just seriously think it should be for the excitement and not the long lasting economic powerplay. because then eve will never get a good wealth distribution in its simulation."
"are you sure it isnt because you have no clue what you're trying to say?this is irrelevant to whether or not its game or metagame. my point about your use of metagame was irrelevant to whether or not you're using it wrong."
"*edit*screw it, i give up."
"there are a few threads about suggestions to some changes to missioning.i would just ask if the following idea would not solve a few of these issues.reducing expiration penalty on standing to a rather low value.letting the cancellation of missions not yet accepted be governed by a skill.so unskilled once every 4 hours, level 1 1 every 3 hours, lvl 2 1 / 2h etc and level 5 once every 30 minutes.also in addition to this letting mission runners be able to contact about mission offers remotely also based on a skill, one similar to market range.a feature needed would be rightclicking the agent in people and places and set course the same way you can with an active agent when you dock at station and have an active mission.some balance tweaks might be needed afterward to clean up the increased work on missioning..but basically this would be offering options much along the lines of \"selecting\" missions.."
"i think it is rather moot to discuss details of mission running at this time, because as far as i have read ccp is doing a massive expansion of mission running. we will have to see how that works out to see how changes would fit in.the ability do deny a mission remotely would be of help in any case, though.few days ago i flew a mission in khanid. then i headed back home to gallente space, 24 jumps. the very moment i arrived in my home station, that cramp-arsed storyline agent in khanid decided that he wanted to offer me a storyline mission. i had to make 24 jumps back and forth just to tell him to hide in a bush and frell himself.when agents can contact you via mail to make an offer, it should be a polite option to deny them the same way.when it comes to skills that decrease the time for turning down a mission, i am completely against it. it would be an economic desaster. using 1-2 characters in a hub area that has multiple high level agents, it would become far too easy to farm for the best missions. farming missions is a serious issue, because empire already makes it very easy to make loads of money. if i could run twice as many angel extras and assaults, it would roughly increase my net yield by 30% minimum. a lot of impact for the kind of skill you are suggesting.if you are picky about your missions, be picky about it. being picky is a personal disadvantage that has consequences. when i say i do not eat chicken, pork, shrimp or veggies, i lose a lot of options when faced with a preset buffet. it is my decision, though. i should not complain when all i am left with is rice and potatoes, or the time it takes to wait for the pizza delivery service."
"."
"problem with blackops is that they're way too overpriced to be used in pvp. they lack scan resolution to tackle anything, they're bs size and now even more slower than they were. if they were to be used in pvp they should be made useful for that instead of being funny big alliance boy toys. being able to jump into cynojammed system is only useful for very limited number of blackops pilots, mostly for funny nc/goon/gbc etc. lolguys. say hi for blobs. whole jump drive in blackops is only needed for going around megacamps, blackops is still a cloaking bs able to go through gates. the problem is that fuel takes whole cargo space, making it so that you can't really fit any fuel on board, tbh. oh, and jump portal.... if you get someone to make a covert cyno for you it means the path is totally possible to make through with covops/recon so why any need for cynoing in more if they just can fly?i cry when i see threads like this."
"is someone going to take up the missile nerf complaint?"
"sorry to post this here guys buti have an idea for ccp on this matter with the problem u quoted in your postccp could give each character a certain code so even if you change the name of your character the buddy list and stuff will automaticly change it to the right name so you wount get any misleads in your buddy list, allso if someone was to change that name how would it still exist as a charater when it doesnt belong to anyone? :djust my 2 cents for help towards the character name change"
"due to rl commitments of several delegates meeting will be postponed for next sunday, 8th of february."
"just a minor question..what csm member is keeping a hold and focus on economy?is that on the list of any of the members?"
"that would be me, even if i wouldn't dare wrestling with an icelandic person"
