"it has to be done."
"fully support bringing back the old capital jump effects!of course, if ccp would like to make them prettier so they are more inline with the new graphics engine, thats peachy too :)when caps hit the field, they should scream \"im a capital!!!! im going to put you in a world of pain yarrrr!\", not \"oh hey, sissy and auntie thanny are having a tea party in the back yard, do u care to join?\""
"agree"
"let me ask you this question, then, supporters:if a battleship putting multiple webs & a point on an af shouldn't be able to kill the thing, what should? ffs it's a frigate- it takes 2 weeks to train for a full t2 fit, and about 50m isk to fit with rigs. you think they should be capable of taking out anti-af bs?"
"as for rockets- again, you're looking at it on paper. gl fighting against a venge with those small acs of yours- last time i checked they do a bit less dps at 20km."
"why do you have to be an idiot and a r3tard?"
"common thing iv'e herd from our wt's that all we do is fight miners and hualers. not true (aly with a 0.0 corp and get you miners out of harms way or leave them in a npc corp and do contracts. its war ffs anyones a traget including your industrals).why would i find a active ship an agressive act? or a corp mate rring for that matter? the subject is nuetral remote repping not in corp repping.problem with that is we bring a fleet of say 5 bs couple of tackle maybe a hac or two. to fight a maybe slighly better quiped fleet and as soon as it turns in our favour out come the neutral rr they de-aggro dockup or fight on and we are left trying to break a buffer tank being repped buy a t2 logistic thats 50km away from our fleet of ships(p.s. in ggb's case that probably more nuetral rr than they have members wi i think even you guys would have trouble in counter the sheer amount of nuet rr they have, now that kai86 is in afgan there corp has wound down a little).it effects minmatar the most we can't just change ammo to gain alot more range like amarr, yes there is barrage but on a ac that maybe an extra 5-10km at most.i am all for in corp repping don't get me wrong if they bait us and out come corp mates start repping in a huge buffer with no gun on there ship then well... we should have never let our selves be bated like that and its our own fault if we loose a ship. but nuetral repping is just a crap way to win. were's the buzz when fighting a wt with balls to fight back?, where the buzz when you win by 50% struture?, how can you smack talk in local about how crap you wt was when you have to use sutch crapy tatics like nuet rr?.grow you'r corp a pair and actauly fight even and stop being scared to loose a ship. i might smack you in local but atleast poeple would have more respect for you."
"i challenge you to reference one engagement- even a single engagement in which any member of f9x has fought against the privateers, and were not outnumbered by the privateers. (the one exception i can think of is when we helped ggb station blob you- but i don't think that really counts, as it wasn't our fleet). and yes- i am including rr, both neutral and in corp/alliance on both sides of the engagement."
"gotta be done."
"woo"
"let them get concorded or what op suggested."
"bullocks1. then why does the repper turn red ? dude, take vitamins. you are completely unable to think logically. let me repeat more slowly: w h y d o e s t h e r e p p e r t u r n red ? understand now ?2. please tell me what the counter to constantly docking and undocking, getting a few reps off each time. how can that be countered ? go ahead and say stop fighting on stations. then we know you just want to nerf station fighting. because station fighting should not be part of the game at all right ? again, not a discussion about rr. its about the penalty timer.3. no it certainly doesnt. you are basically defending, as a small gang tactic, the ability to dock with impunity.4. again, the argument is not about rr. you keep squirming offtopic when its convenient. the issue is penalty timer, not the use of rr.edit1: forgot to check supportedit2: addendum to 3. to use your own argument against you, blobbing is a perfectly acceptable mechanic. everyone can use blobbing. see how that works ?edit3: addendum to 1. if rr is not aggressive as you claim and is purley \"defensive\", then the same is true for falcon. after all, a falcon doesnt actually hurt the ship its jamming. the hurting is done by dps from other ships. the falcon is merely a defensive boost. yeah, purely defensive. again, using your own argument against you to show how utterly stupid it is."
"supported. rockets are supposed to be high-damage, short-range, unguided, explosive projectiles. and they've been nerfed to near uselessness."
"rockets need loving too."
"tell me more of this raven of yours that can shoot in 2009 torps out of cruise launchers.it's page 3, lots of positive feedback and you don't even know what you are fussed about.also, the comparison of those 2 bs's is ... off.you can see a torp raven with 4 damage mods, you will never see a blasterthron with neutrons with 4 damage mods."
"the comparison is completely viable, since the cruise launcher issue seems more like a typo to me. a torpraven will without any problems deal those amounts of damage.additionally, 4 damagemods dont change anything related to game mechanics - the proportion of the damage between those two ships will always be there, since a magstab does the same thing a bcu does - same percentages and all.and no matter if you cannot see a blasterthron with 4 magstabs in a year, it still is a possible fitting. the damage of torps is in par with the damage of turretguns with heavy penalties to speed and sig.so please, ccp, hell, fix this issue. i want to be able to fly a hawk without getting laughed at in local when someone hostile enters the system. give them blaster-ish dps, or make them almost un-penaltised, but please, fix them.so, supported"
"supported"
"supported! a working sound engine is generally a vital part of any game. fix it! :-)"
"i give my full support to these efforts. the game is too mature and too polished to have these sorts of issues this late in the life cycle. i hope that it will be looked at as soon as practicable."
"please give ear-candy love like you give every other candy love."
"i pipe my pc sound via my hifi and the eve sound engine does bad, bad things! popping, broken stereo, random silence...and when using headphones the popping is genuinely painful, something really wrong is going on here...."
"glad to see someone taking this up. i have not being able to trust the sound for anything, guns don't make noise all the time when you are starting right at your ship. oh and the popping, may it burn...defiantly supported!!"
"i stopped exploration because the popping sound in map view is so bad. fix this soon please."
"i support this thread and the ability of the csm delegate to represent the players who are experiencing these issues. i myself have experienced most of these issues and ccp replied to me telling me to turn my hardware acceleration down until it works... it didn't do anything, it is not my pc, it's the damned sound engine."
"the sound system is so very broken, and does need attention. it's crazy that shield hardeners generate so much sound that everything else is drowned out."
"the sound system is slowly being reworked but i still get ear-shattering pops when for some reason a sound is supposed to come off a direction and i pass a distance thresold off it.moreover many effect sounds of the past would bring a better feeling than apo ones. visual effects as well, beginning with the legacy client roids being nicely flashed by the lasers.other \"buff\" effects are disturbingly loud or just annoying and they are supposed to stay up for hours"
"i find it difficult to underestand how ccp can tolerate broken sound in their game. one would thing that such broad range of defect would get a high enough priority from the dev team to fix.i support this cause."
"/me endorses this request."
"although a lot of pilots don't use audio for some reason, it's an important part of the game for me and it would be nice to be able to properly hear eve in al its glory rapid fire (dessies, electron blasters, pulse lasers on an omen) seems buggy as well.additionally, the sound effect of the shield hardener and sensor booster just blur out everything else.the sound itself matches what one would expect (shield hardenings having a humming sounds makes sense to me) but it shouldn't drown out every other sound to the point where you gotta zoom out or keep them offline."
"supported. the map causing the sound to mute and pop only occurs at gates or moons when another player is shown in the overview. this has allowed me to get round the problem for now when scanning. it also occurs if the ship gets to 50% hull damage."
"sad that the paying customer has to go to such lengths these days to try and convince the developers to take notice of such a glaring defect."
"/signedthought it was my hardware conflicting with eve. audio on 1 side or dissapearing audio at all untill you look around then it pops back :salso no gun sounds because of a booster or hardener? come on!"
"/signed"
"i've played only one day so far, and i avoided using the map because i get a loud pop when opening the map in my headphones which is really disturbing. please fix the sound engine."
"i believe that eve-online should have sound that works without screwing up the game. if ccp have been paying people to resolve/ improve sound issues for the last 2 years i would be shocked.1 currently sound are not used by anyone that i know of in game due to to the cpu? lag issues it causes. does any other game exist where sound screws up playability this bad?2 sound effects are now so random and washed out, suffering turning it on is not worth it. this also it makes voice coms difficult and there is no support for this. sound effects should add to the game not distract from the content.3 a reactive mute support for incoming voice coms would be very helpfull an instant mute button/fast access customisable volume control support may also be helpful/easier to introduce for the large number of people who use voice coms. 4 the only 'improvements' made in the last year or so appears to be the same old music 'whales dying/barfing/making love' to synth, totally different music for each race would be interesting. 5 dynamic music would be good based on ingame events with scriptable customisation possible6 support for player based music would be good (ie eve radio)/ use of your own music."
"the only way this would work if something that if it was a new class ship bigger or stronger than titans or more effective and they only way to operate such beast if muliple players had to be inside it as a crew and operate and manage it for combat,defenses,and propulsion."
"meaning you would have to find players near your sp or whatever to even get it useable so u would have to have titans 5 or something"
"agree'dalso it would be extremely difficult to implment game engine wise and i could see 6 months of bug solving constant server down times etc.."
"love the idea but i agree with above its icing on the cake and complicated to bootthough if i was gonna do it i would do it as such.5 crews availible for purchase levels 1-5level determines how quickly they gain spdrones from each race have different bonus'sgallente offer drone/hybrid bonus'sminmattar offer sig radius reduction/agility bonus'scaldari offer missle/shield bonus'samarr offer energy weapons/ armor bonus'sbonus's climb from 1 percent to 5 percent over time. you could purchase/hire them as an npc market item, but only at the base level. above that would be player seeded, crews could be sold, but the purchaser would only beable to use what their skills reflected, like implants.this way they arent complicated but also reward pilots for flying ships and keeping them alive.also give a rp a lil more to play with."
"it's a pretty neat idea, i'll give you that, but i can think of 5 bugs/imbalances off the top of my head that could be fixed by the time this idea even got off the ground. when it comes down to it, i would rather see the bugs and imbalances get fixed before something like this gets implemented. what you are suggesting opens up a whole new aspect of gameplay that is extremely complex and would add to eves already steep learning curve, which can be a good or bad thing. maybe one day, after some of the bigger issues are dealt with this could be implemented but i wouldn't hold my breath. all in all it's an interesting idea that i would support if it where not for some other issues that really need attention first before an idea such as this gets even looked at."
"sorry dude, but the lag from this one point would be horrific.as for the rest of the proposal, i like, i like."
"i think it shouldn't take a rig slot. instead being it's own \"thing\".otherwise, i love it."
"+supportwould be easy to implement - just allow only one name change per 12months or something and charge a feeedit: not that i want to change my name, but i don't see why you shouldn't be able to. it could even be once per character lifetime as someone p"
"i think this is a wonderful idea and would support it 100%... has there been any dv update on this possible implementation of this feature?"
"you're supposed to have other friends protecting and helping you to fuel them. if you fail protecting the pos while unanchoring or fail fueling it. then it should be free game for anyone to take..as it is now its mostly up to how much isk you got to buy towers, modules and fuel. not (really really) logistics, not military power (or well you either have 500 man blobs or not). this is an issue too imho.at least let ppl loot abandoned pos's."
"supporting this 2 times a year :)"
"supported but make in any faction bs please i don't and never have flown amarr"
"supporting this for tq only :)"
"hell yea, needs more servers etc as i failed to be able to logon last time after getting dissconnected a few times after waiting ages to get on :@"
"your title says that gallente ew ships need a boost, your post says that gallente ew mods need a boost, how about you decide what you want and then remake the post ?ps: i do agree on the rsd thing though."
"the way i see it, it could go either way. either boost the modules so that the existing bonuses actually make them worthwhile to useor boost the bonuses so the bonuses make rsd useful to use.probably the best idea would be to boost the bonuses a tad so that it would not become an overpowered module again.edit: i actually bought and fit a keres yesterday the fit will barely give me room to tackle and stay out of targeting range, though"
"the ships are fine, right now gallente recons are very strong even despite their ew issues.they used to be not so good back before the scrambler change but now gallente recons can put a warp scrambler at the same ranges a non-bonused disruptos is."
"i support"
"i stopped after this.why ?because you fail to understand that a mmo is dynamic, what was was pimp 3 yrs ago - t2, is now given. what was unthinkably expensive 5 yrs ago - arbalest siege launchers, is now affordable to everyone. eventually what is an option to use to gain an advantage, will eventually become a requirement. to give a parallel in your in-game life, you kicked the goons out of syndicate when they were in frigates, and they came back 2yrs later in hacs/recons/caps."
"that a bc gang can slugfest better than a t2 cruiser gang if the bc gang can catch the t2 gang, get in range, and tackle them is a red herring. the difference is, t2 cruisers have more range and can gtfo when a blob of two or three times your gang size comes chasing you while bc's can't: the dividing line is between cruiser hulls and bcs.i'm rich enough to be able to fly whatever i want, but, remember not being so. this does boil down to class warfare because (a) the rise in t2 pricing has made it so that poor players for the most part (there are of course tactical exceptions, for example fitting aml's to a caracal and going t2 frig hunting, but these make up a minority of playtime experience for a minority of players) cannot both remain highly effective without blobbing and still be able to gtfo when the inevitable blob forms up and (b) because the grind for ship replacement has gotten way too long.the rise in t2 prices has created a legitimate class gap problem, and for many of the people who think cheaper (although not crazy 100/20/4 cheap) rigs for smaller ships is a good thing, this change is a way to address the yawning gap in effectiveness between the rich and poor in smaller gangs and increasing price disincentives to non-blob pvp."
"i've already addressed several times exactly how it's not shrinking the gap of rich v poor. if i don't spend 60 mil on 3 rigs for my cruiser, i'll just have 60 mil to spend on faction gear. how is it any different being rigs or gear that the money goes into, both drastically improve my ship. a poor person will still not elect to spend as much as i will, and will ultimately suffer for it.it's not fixing the class war, it's just reallocating it elsewhere. and because of that, it makes no sense."
"sorry just have to clarify something here...these expensive rigs, can clear the dirt between the absurdly rich pilots and not so rich pilots.just cause you're rich enough to afford rigs on your frigates doesn't make you good."
"ehh when you drop that faction stuff it'll get immediately sold by the poorer players, funding their t2 and rigs. i don't think that's as big of an issue. i'd happily fight your faction fitted ship with my t2 fitted ship. faction stuff costs more than rigs did imo"
"you don't quite get it. cheaper rigs on t1 ships won't close the gap between the difference of t1 rigged and unrigged (because except for t2 frigs, poor and rich will make the same rigging cost/benefit decisions, more or less; this difference doesn't matter). rather making it worth rigging smaller t1 ships closes the gap between non-bs t1 hulls (now not worth rigging now, would be after change) and t2 hulls (worth rigging now and later).if someone wants to buy faction to reopen the gap, perfectly fine for them: doing so is really isk inefficient and the mods can drop, so it doesn't pose any sort of systemic problem like the t2 ship price jump does.finally, the point is not to erase the rich/poor gap, but rather to return it, in both magnitude and nature, to the balanced point it was at before moongold prices went through the roof."
"exactly this.can't support the op but it's obvious the new rig prices will be bad."
"daily bump"
"no support on this one. who really wants more carebear stuff. fix the bugs plz."
"yes please"
"still no arguments against?"
"nope."
"not supported cloaks are cloaks! and that shouldnt change"
"this."
"put null sec into delayed local mode like w-space. problem solved. i'm a chronic afk cloaker. i don't do it to grief people, i have to do it because everyone docks the instant i enter system. i have to sit there afk for hours for them to think i'm just a scout and come back out before i can attack. get rid of local and both my and their waiting goes away. i can hurry up and make my attack and regardless of the attack's success everyone can move on faster.ultimately this is really an argument over whether or not a single or small gang of attackers should be able to do damage. i say yes. the game should allow terrorism, crime and sabotage. not every fight need to be a fully consensual 400 vs 400 lag fest. in fact, those are stupid. i fully support putting a hard limit of 10 people per system except for trade hubs."
"zzz. this is all a bunch of crap. 1. if your able to scan a cloaked ship then ccp will have to put a station in every system so everyone will have a place to hide if they so choose.2. why can't you just be happy the way things are!?! if you can't find the bomber, you suck. if you think one bomber on your turf is the end of the world, you need to find a new game.everyone knows what this is about. keeping people out of low and null sec. if they have no way to hide then they're doomed. more people will end up hiding in empire thus letting the select few absorb all the riches of null. in the end it boils down to isk. not every person that rat's is a macro. i've made a lot of isk killing rats but as soon as anyone comes to they system i'm in, i hide. i don't have the assets to lose a battleship on a whim and my corp doesn't have the inferstructure to replace it for me.leave the cloak alone and stick to greifing hulks."
"honesty, wtf would be the purpose on having a cloak if people can find u, its alredi balanced enough, ur speed, scan res and locking range gets gimped. covert ops cloaks are 10mil a pop and can only be fit to certain ships.just coz there's a guy cloaked up u can't kill doesent mean the cloaks are unbalanced.100% unsupported and would classify this as a whine thread"
"i'm all for this.as far as the outlaw issue, why not have a system that removes the ability to if your sec goes into outlaw status, and this be considered a privilege by concord rather than a right?"
"the only thing that comes to mind is if t3 ships with a covert reconfiguration subsystem can be cyno'd by a blackops ship. even so any wartarget will have some kind of warning (local much?)i can't see trade being significantly impacted because of the fuel cost associated with moving such a small amount of cargo. anything giving returns at that rate probably already has stability issues.as for the lowsec entry being an issue, all it does is reduce the exposure of a well organized operation to opportunistic pvp, which is the reward from being organized in the first place (give effort, get rewarded for actually putting in the effort) i know there are going to be some pirates that are unhappy about this, and here is your solution: pop the fuel carrier for the pos that is getting stuff out that way. or simply wardec the empire corp and probe down the cyno vessel while its in the middle of a cycle, then clean up the hauler as it comes through.*edit*a couple of things i forgot to add:one thing that has been said over and over again, is that highsec isn't \"safe space\" its \"safer space\" this motion would highlight that nicely, and add more possibilities of play to those that live in highsec. (and not just the carebears at that)also it would give blackops some kind of usefulness beyond 0.0 pvp operations, which it badly needs. solves that gripe without a nerf or a buff."
"i still support this."
"i agree"
"/signed in support"
"already explained how a \"realistic\" concord would work. if you are willing to accept the consequences of being an outlaw your idea could be feasible, but no \"no consequences for cank in the name of sandbox\" proposal, please. and no \"400 man fight in jita would be the norm\" proposal, too. i don't want server crashes every day till the trade hubs disappear completely and we live through bartering."
"op, the simple fact of the matter is, concord is there to give the players who live in empire some sort of feeling of security. sure it would be pretty neato to amass a fleet of 500+ and go rampaging through empire, killing all in your way, but it wouldn't be fun for those who where living in the system you just rampaged through. eve needs a nice balance of pvpers and carebears to make everyone happy, and if concord was made destructable to the point where you can kill people in empire willy nilly, i don't see the carebears hanging around eve too much longer which inturn, would affect the pvpers(come on, finding those juicy carebear haulers in lowsec is fun)just my two cents."
"not to mention the fact that i don't see the pvpers stopping long enough to mine the minerals necessary to make themselves a new ship when the old one gets asploded."
"or when they run out of ammo... or when they need a rig or 2... or when they need...."
"and now we all imagine the embarrassment of hardcore pvpers getting ganked in their mining ship. :di am sure mining frigates will be quite popular in the end :d"
"i to can agree upon that the empires use a \"cheat\" to keep sov. but empires can be beaten, concord cannot.op the thing is; what you're suggesting is pretty much how the region providence under the rule of cva works. they're a player alliance, there's no concord there, there's no factional police. there's just cva and cvas allies. if you'd commit a \"crime\", say shooting upon a cva vessel. that player would cry out in local and intelligence chats. bringing a \"blob\" upon you with players policing the region of providence. but; when you have attacked this cva/cva ally, you will forever be damned as a criminal, a terrorist that will be killed on sight (not only in providence). as a podpilot, you're the best of the best. your \"nation\" invested in you, gave you a chance only a few (rp warning) have. when you enter highsec, you need to learn to live here without the wings of the empires. you have a \"free\" safe haven; the only cost is to follow the rules, and if not say hey to concord. as to the part of empires cheating with keeping sov. accually, i can't see any player driven alliance beating an empire. if say, a 500-1000 man bs gang would enter jita with guns blazing. the caldari state would respond pretty much like this: inderdictors would come in dropping bubbles making you unable to flee, sniper fleets(if you're lucky) would hammer you away with missiles and railguns. perhaps a state cyno flares up, a fleet of motherships and carriers enters the system unleaching doom upon you.or, they hotdrop a titan or two reducing your bs fleet to ashes. i have yet to even look at uo, but it seems to me it's a medevial theme (correction please). but this is not townsfolk. this is several thousands of years into the future; one would espect them having more than one sheriff in town. so as many others already said, if you think highsec is unfair, go to nullsec.personally i'd say take a trip to providence, fins a cva dude to chat with. be an ally, build providence. or just apply to another alliance. nullsec is the place you're seeking, not highsec. highsec is just the safer place, in nullsec people can hear you scream, but almost never can they aid you!"
"for a long time i am trying to write down this issue without using to much \"curse\" words in it. its part of the problem that i personally had a lot of bad experiences with gm team, and i had to try to be as objective as possible, esp cause i am csm delegate. before i start my rant i will say that i understand the workload gm dept have on their shoulders, but its the job they choose, and they are to blame for increased workload due to incompetence in their dept. i can speak for the good chunk of people i am in day to day contact (and its several thousands of 0.0 dwellers) and most of them lost any confidence in gm team. i was personal witness of (i will not use word ******ed) completely clueless low level gm answers regarding various gameplay aspects. sadly due to roc i cant post any communication between players and game masters, but i assure you there is lot off :****: there. in many cases you can get the hint that gm actually read your petition not before 3rd reply. then its really no wonder why many people ask for escalation to senior gm right away thus increasing workload on senior gms. that would be the 1st part of the issue. low level gms, regardless if ccp is/was outsourcing them must imho be the active players. on top of that they must pass rigorous knowledge tests so they shouldn't embarrass both gm dept and ccp as company. the much bigger problem then low level gms are lead gms. i will not mention many dubious decisions, but i will focus on one case which basically pushed me to actually raise this issue. i must say that as i met during csm 2.0 iceland meetings three lead/senior gms and i saw the passion they have towards eve, and gm team/ccp really did great job during pos exploit issue, but simply.....there is so much things to improve there. anyway most of you were introduced to one of the biggest ****ups of ccp called <U+FFFD>bob reloaded-issue<U+FFFD>. it was discussed with gm grimmi during csm 2.10 meeting. chatlog can be found here chatlog from csm 2.10 meeting"
"anyway i will highlight the most important quotes for lazy guys. [ 2009.04.05 16:14:37 ] gm grimmi > about the naming policy.. we want to be ableto help people so having everything written in stone is notreally the way to go[ 2009.04.05 16:15:05 ] gm grimmi > but we definately can do with moreconsistency in applying our rules[ 2009.04.05 16:27:31 ] vuk lau > also can we know was bobr decision made by lowlevel/senior or lead gms?[ 2009.04.05 16:27:44 ] vuk lau > end [ 2009.04.05 16:34:59 ] vuk lau > can i get an answer from grimmi who wasresponsible for bobr issue. personaly i hope that guy is shipped tonorth pole[ 2009.04.05 16:35:46 ] ankhesentapemkah > what vuk said, [ 2009.04.05 16:36:00 ] ccp xhagen > grimmi[ 2009.04.05 16:36:27 ] gm grimmi > that issue was debated for a long time andthen decided by lead gm, as well as many others.[ 2009.04.05 16:36:45 ] vuk lau > dear lord :d [ 2009.04.05 16:37:03 ] gm grimmi > it was by no means a unanmous decisionpage 4 [ 2009.04.05 16:38:13 ] tusko hopkins > if you had such a consensus among the gms, how come you backed off so easily? it was a very lamething to do tbh. [/end][ 2009.04.05 16:38:46 ] ankhesentapemkah > issler - because bob doesnt deserve special treatment in a negative way either. secondly,reversing the decission was the most damaging of all of this, why did that happen? [ 2009.04.05 16:39:23 ] omber zombie > just wondering what the basis was for changing the name as it seems to go against your naming policy,even the unofficial one (end)[ 2009.04.05 16:40:20 ] issler dainze > what omber said, as to special negative treatment, it wasn't they lost their name in a legitimatefashion (en) [ 2009.04.05 16:41:15 ] gm grimmi > there really isn't much more to say aboutthat whole thing than was said on the forums.[ 2009.04.05 16:41:23 ] gm grimmi > it was a human error that once more proves that assumption is the mother of all f*** ups. [ 2009.04.05 16:42:49 ] omber zombie > so, just to be clear, the gm's as a groupdecided that they should ignore the naming policy and youguys didn't expect a backlash? (end)so tldr version is:- ccp asks csm about our opinion. i cant access my csm emails but i think it was opinion of majority if not anonymous that ccp should not intervene there. - gm hot shot crew debate and brainstorm for couple of weeks, and finally make decision to break their official rule- dramabomb on forums- gm team reverses decision"
"wtf? does anyone else thinks its something wrong here. and this is just crown jewel of gm dept, there is lot of other mistakes that could or did interfered with 0.0 warfare in certain weight.also i dont see point of internal affairs dept when u complain to arkanon about lead gms and he just forward your complain to them to give you an answer. i know they are in same rock band, but guys u are running the company with 400k customers. this is not the way to deal with things.anyway there is not much i can propose what i already didnt said several times to gms, but they need to get their **** sorted. - clear rules and policies (i think there is only policy about reimbursment which is vague and doesnt a mean a **** with <U+FFFD>our logs dont show nothing<U+FFFD> generic answer)- proper training of all gms- ia dept. actually doing their job and start slaping gm dept for their mistakesi will naturally raise this issue for next meeting, and i am asking for one more csm <U+FFFD> gm meeting in iceland cause a lot off things were said to csm in january and nothing actually happened."
"i am definitely on board for explicit trainings of lower lever gms as well as testing/vetting of gm applicants!"
"now gimmie my isk vuk"
"gm's should not abuse their power at all in the game, and those that do get slapped down rightly so."
"our logs indicate that there is no record of your existance. you do not exist. nothing exists. we are all a figment of your imagination.... deleting life, kbye."
"i too would love a degree in game mechanics"
"fully supported..me too was a victim of the \"our logs don't show anything\" generic answer more than once..."
"supported"
"its quite aparent that \"the logs show nothing\" means, your petition was too long (i.e. it had more than 1 word in it) and as a gm they were too lazy to check anything. every time i get this response i have discovered that calling them on the fact that they never checked the logs usually makes them actually check the logs, and normally makes them reimburse if its actually their bad. this is a poor way of doing things, but i think they are taking their lead from the way that government agency's delay people to the point of giving up. somthing should be done, but what?"
"vuk lau is best lau"
"supported"
"the staff should not manipulate anything ingame ... just giving support"
"i have to agree with you about a coherent reimbusement policy and implementing it vigorously. this also goes for the training of the front line gm. they are there to take care of the routine items and to gather information for a higher level gm that would actually make a decision. i have had the standard, \"our records don't show...\" type of response and i had to whip out my own logs and post them as well as asking for an escalation to someone higher in the gm chain. why did the front line gm not access the records?it also took over a week before i got a response from a gm.a recommendation. gms should reply within 24 hours with something. even if it is a statement that the petition is assigned to a gm...and give the gm's name so you know who's hands it is in.ok, that is my 2 cents worth.malyou the man vuk lau!"
"this is absolutley correct. with the ammount of time and money that many people invest into this game ccp should be beyond reproach, if my mobile telephone company was found to break its rules it would be liable for a law suit no matter weather it was a supervisor or a person answering the telephone. ccp as a company needs to appreciate that people will vote with their feet. if ccp continue to fail they will loose their customer base to other similar game titles and will eventually fail on a corporate level leaving the same dedicated players holding either a much larger subscription bill to keep ccp afloat or with their fave game being taken offline as the provider goes bankrupt.let us not forget that ccp already charge more per subscription for this game. other companies with lower subscription rates manage to keep their gm's in line so how come ccp cant when they cost us more money, personally this me me very sad as i can see that ccp has next to no respect for its customers.use our money wisely and sort this out, gms who abuse the syste or fail to do their job properly should be fired, no two ways about it. it may \"just be a game\" but ffs ccp its our game, and your ****ing job, if you cant do that right why not take a course on plumbing and see if ccp can get that right?"
"totally agree vuk"
"spot on vuk. same rules for us, for our enemies and for everyone else. there need to be straight policies, that we can trust in. and for that ccp need to apply and enforce straight rules within their operations."
"get it together, gms, and start doing your jobs. canned responses help no one."
"go get em tiger...i mean vuk..."
"go vik luk!i am/we are not giving a thumbs up because hes in my/our alliance as this may come across as such with alot of mm voting. i for one dont bother with petitions anymore, i can get myself out of **** much faster and without having to deal with some ******ed responses and wasting time. the e-o incident did it for me, short sighted reasoning from gm dept got me really ****ed off. you need to actually read the bloody petition.i better stop now before i keep ranting"
"i just hope we'll all live to see the day. :)"
"no question."
"supported."
"i'd like to mention there was a time i reported over 20 macro ice miners, linking all of their names so that it would be easy for the gm. none of them ever got banned and they are all still at it today. fly over to anatolare in everyshore and see for yourself. the only response i got was (to summarize) 'we'll look into it, but we can't tell you if we take any action.'"
"i have to agree with the assessment of the gm team. there are many people i have told to not bother with very legitimate issues that have happened due to the game screwing up for some reason or another and knowing how the gm team works i have told them to not bother because i'm almost certain that they will get the short curt response of \"our logs show nothing\".on another note i have heard any a horror story and witnessed a few my self of gms stepping over legitimate in game mechanics and returning \"stolen property\" to people. mechanics like a friend of mine stole an unmanned orca out of a belt. the pilot of the ship complained to the gms and was returned the ship. i'm sorry but where in the rules does it say that that sort of action is illegal or against game mechanics. another example is that a friend of mine (i don't know how specific with this one i can be) managed to snag a good pile of t2 bpos from a major alliance. they were given to him by a friend in the alliance. the gms got involved and put a temp ban on the person who got the bpos account. and returned to the bpos to the former owner, who promptly trashed them.yah i know this kind of stuff sucks for the people who lost those very expensive items, but it must be said that if the gms got involved in the same way with other much more famous robberies and or spy jobs (example: gh-sc and the fall of the imperial apoc, the disbanding of bob, the killing of the first titan to name a few) this game would lose a lot of the rawness that it already has. this is a game where there are no punches pulled. where only major meta gaming issues are illegal."
"i agree 100%, but i've got a much better example of incompetence. about 5 months ago i petitioned a group for what appeared to be a pos exploit. in the petition, i listed the corp, linked the system, and put the planet/moon where it happened. i recieved a reply back from a gm stating thanks for the information, but in order to help you we need the following information:planet moontype of exploitcorp holding the moonand system location."
"hahahahahahahahapure win"
"too often i have had a wtf? reply from a gm who didn't seem to understand the suituation. support for players is where eve really falls behind others... we need ccp to do something about it."
"constructive replies"
"i think ccp stated this problem somewhere that using a macro doesnt modify the game client and you can't see it in the logs. when i am mining myself i also look like a macro miner :p so if apparantly gms cant see this \"fraud\" in the logs its hard to ban someone for something you can't proof. and afaik ccp only bans people when they have proof in their serverlogs."
"^^^^i too stay awake for 23 hours a day 7 days a week it's pretty bad when you have a department that creates multiple multipage threads with not a single good thing said about them at all."
"when you have ships getting reimbursed for \"lag\" and others not getting reimbursed for losses due to a bug on ccp's part theres a bit of an issue.+ support"
"need moar vuk lau in your life"
"the goonswarm titan theft which occured at the start of the year is probably the most glaring example of gm idiocy i can think of (for those of you unaware, a titan was stolen using a compromised account and transferred to another character, the character flying the titan was banned, but the titan remained on the banned account and was never returned)."
"(insert random \"our logs show nothing\" comment.)seriously, this is the #1 thing that ****es me off. we can even provide videos, have dozens of petitions from a single fight, and still get the near robotic response of \"our logs don't show a problem.\"if you apparently allow gms to use their own discretion in such serious matters as alliance names, how could you not allow the same discretion in reimbursements?at the very least large fleet fights that generate multiple petitions need to be reviewed by someone beyond a senior gm. problems like these are huge issues for eve, and need more attention than a first-level gm pretending to be a petition auto-closing bot."
"i would like to be able to put emoticons in the game chat.make it something like you right-click, and in one of options there is a drop-down list of emoticons."
"01111001 01100101 01110011"
"i dont see why not :p somewhere into the future"
"unsupportedtheres anough lag without the server tring to find what :smiley: - :ijustflippedyourcan: corresponds to in chat"
"not supported. another useless feature."
"no."
"i have those annoying graphical smilies turned off in every chat program i use.there are a lot better things to put into eve."
"absolutely not."
"for all of the people saying that wis will have no impact on gameplay and that it will simply be eye candy... when did ccp call you and tell you every little plan that they had for the mechanic? how on earth do you know every little detail they have planned for wis?did you ever think for one second that this is going to springboard into something more expansive than the tiny bit they showed at fanfest last year?have you given thought to the fact that it is still in development and that they could be pumping out more actual content for wis as we speak?my guess is no. my guess is that those of you who are claiming wis is worthless and can contribute nothing to the eve universe simply heard torfi say \"there will be no killing in stations upon release of wis\".however, i digress. the fact of the matter is, you have no idea what wis will bring. unless you are playing the final build, how can you possibly speculate as to the merits of wis?"
"i agree"
"no support. the biggest \"are you kidding me\" moment when i started playing this game wasn't the ridiculously counter-intuitive ui, or the lack of documentation. it was that i wasn't able to leave my ship. i almost stopped playing right there. i'm glad i didn't, but as soon as i found that out it seemed like the game was just fundamentally half-done. the game is great, but the whole universe feels so empty and pointless. walking in stations will do a lot to create a sense of immersion. also, the development of it is tied to another game, so it's going to happen anyway. so this entire whinethread is completely pointless."
"so true it would give black ops a place in the fleet thats not just running cloak and dagger, like recons, bombers, and all the other stealth ships they have their place in their own fleet and in a regular fleet.though the cost of one would have to decrease and the hp would have to be increased i think its a viable option."
"ui client remembers passwords between session changes.ui add support for pos module status in overviewafk/busy/available indicatortoggle logging on/off for each chat channel"
"ive been out of town pretty much right up until sunday. so i dont have any issues this round(lark sniped all the ones i wanted anyways). im only posting to make a point that i'm not sponsoring issues posted by random non-csm people these threads. i had to delete an entire paragraph on this subject because it was written at 1am right after i got home from the plane, and it didn't make any sense, and it doesnt actually matter. hopefully ill be there tomorrow morning :3i know i need to update my csm wiki stuff from the last round of voting too. ive been too away from the computer to do that, i'll get all that csm homework done during sunday's meeting.edit: hahahaha last night i didnt realize the meeting was 2 days away not the next morning. ill be there"
"also: travelling through concord space no longer randomly gives gcc wiki"
"also: the future of lowsec: a request for a discussion with ccp."
"please add:* sort ctrl-tab window list by last activation instead of time created* mobile mining gun* dynamic missions* send hail message on convo invite* ship crews* factional warfare - npc review"
"say it after me .. r p g. hope you 'get' it."
"rpg doesn't rule out simulated cockpits; on the contrary it might even help immersion-wise. but as all the lore i know of speaks of cyborg-like interfacing in a closed capsule the concept of flying wwii-like simply sounds like an anachronism.i'd rather have a combination of point-and-click like homeworld combined with flight physics as i-wars had them. elite ii-like physics were no fun (well, at least to me), so too much of this would ruin eve for me."
"well, since really alot of stupid people fly for caldari agents there is a \"overproduction\" of gurista salvage parts. that results in a very low price for them.do missions for agents where you get less guristas missions and the problem is solved."
"/signed"
"old effects where good.current 'wormhole' jump effect is fail. current jump and bump issues are also fail."
"1) the repper turns red because yes, he is aiding someone. however the repper himself is not shooting. he is adding 0 dps to the fight.2) there are plenty of counters, as i've stated multiple times. if rr is so overpowered, how come i'm able to kill people using rr daily? again, i've linked plenty of related kms, so i wont get into that. 3) you're somewhat correct here- i believe that small gangs who chose to engage station camping griefers should be allowed at least some form of gtfo button. think of it this way- if they weren't in rr battleships, they'd be in gank fit battleships- so they really are sacrificing a lot in order to use teamwork to take on overwhelming numbers.4)this is very relevant to the discussion- are you saying that rr has nothing to do with a docking timer revolving around the use of rr? come on now."
"yes!"
"its theft that should have concequences for the offender i agree with the offender being flagged to the killed and the pilots on the kill mail and also getting a timer so they cant dock or jump for 60 seconds \o/"
"hey warfighter take a break you don't have to be a r3tard every time you make a post."
"stealing loot should flag one for _all_ players in system, cause you know stealing loot is wrong."
"wars don't pay the bills. i think that's simple logic.ccp has already stated that they aren't going to change this, in case people didn't notice."
"i agree on the npc corp issue it is an alt abuse imo and i would go further.anyone not in corp taking from your wreck should be flagged in any system including 0.0 as an agressive act, ie they can't jump immediatly.killrights should not be given in 0.0 as is correct however an eve mail should sent to the owner so you can find and shame/ kill the little ****."
"i really feel like i need to make something clear.i believe that the issues involving cans not being properly displayed in the assets window is a valid concern and i an all for changing that. i think that you should be able to open up containers remotely and do things like make contract for the items within remotely. however, i don't want to see this thread turn into a \"how can we fix cans to make them less horrible.\"the idea for the item tabs is to have sorting mechanism in place that doesn't involve the hassle of cans at all. now this is not to say that cans would be obsolete. quite to the contrary, they would compliment this system perfectly, much like cans in corporate hangar arrays can give more detailed sorting options.i also would like to clear up the assets window discussion. i want the assets window to compliment the item tabbing idea, not to overtake it. it doesn't make sense to use the assets window for in-station item sorting when we have an item hangar where your items are stored anyway.i want to see something new with the item hangars. this idea is for sorting in a way that the individual sees fit. i would like to take my pvp gear, my ratting loot, my minerals, my shared gang loot, and anything else you can think of, and sort it in an intuitive and easy way, exactly like what we have in corporate hangars. i just want to extend that functionality to personal hangars and have the individual be able to tag them as they see fit.i reiterate the fact that i want cans to change, i just want this more.thank you to the csm delegates who have supported this idea and please let me know what ccp has to say about it."
"support. i literally have dozens of station containers scattered across the universe because you can't just get rid of them when you move (two week log timeout, go figure), so it gets the assets window all cluttered.the existing api does see through containers already, so it shouldn't be hard to implement!"
"please"
"supported, it's time ccp gives sound some more love."
"totally messed up sound on a level that is simply not worth the great game its embedded in.if there is a specific need for audio related advice or analysis ,please dont hesitate to send me a note ig or here.cheers olo"
"supported 110% i really hope this gets fixed apafp, i really enjoy the sounds of eve, its like watching a movie with the sound turned off to me, while visualy fine, it seems to lack depth and detail."
"supported."
"supported.especially the pop issue is very annoying, since it also affects sound outside of eve."
"fix the blooming sound and give it more love"
"sounds good !"
"supported."
"make it kind of like implants...only for ships...oh wait.i like the idea, but i feel there's more pressing matters for ccp to worry about really. i once played an older dos-based game (battlecruiser 3000ad) that used something like this, except that micromanaging crew is so damn tedious it's sometimes not worth it."
"i agree with herschel here. it is an awesome idea; one a hell of a lot of eve players would enjoy imo. but im not sure itd be good for eve itself per se."
"it makes sense for people like myself who were idoits or were not sure if they were gonna play the game when they started."
"hell no!character name is the single most important choice you make when you create a character, right at the start of the game.eve is a dark, harsh game, its about consequences for all the actions you perform and decisions you make in game.now, case in point, think back to when you started the game, the first time you left the safety of empire, you were happily exploring, ratting or mining, then along comes a pirate and makes that ship you worked so hard for explode.if you do not quit the game in frustration, chances are you are going to want to hunt this guy down and kill him later on, when you are stronger, this lust for revenge drives a lot of new players to keep playing. i have heard plenty of tales of how people have caught up with people who podded them in the past and killed them.so fast forward to now, for arguements sake, name changes come in next year, hundreds of new players will likely go out exploring into low sec, and will get podded. but since the bad guys can now so easily change their name, the new guys will never manage to get their revenge. its just a little food for thought, just because you don't like your name in game, doesn't mean the end of the world, sure starting again is not an easy decision, but the option is there, you are free to make another character at anytime.think about every side of the story before you jump in and demand change."
"big yes.solution for all the problems is simple - you have an employment history tab - add an name change history tab and all problems are gone."
"page one, great thread. as someone else said, max pw and tf can be the same as current pos's though i would like to see an array that use's tf and fuel to make more pw and the other way around, more pw and fuel to make tf."
"supported."
"just an idea to this hacking towers thing. what if there was simply a claim tower option if you find one that is offline (has run out of fuel) then just put a 24 hour timer on the claiming option. allows the previous owner 24 hours to get to the pos to reclaim it. if they don't it's yours and you can do what you want with it."
"in simple words: ccp \"****ed\" up all other ewar types except ecm..."
"agree on boosting sensor damp effects on arazu/lach/keres et all by around 7.5% per skill level.as per the rapier/huginn it may be worthwile replacing the pretty pointless damage bonus (damage bonus on an ew ship.. lol) for a ew strength bonus.a boost to the drone bays (not bandwitdh) of all recons (other than the curse which is perfect/overpowered in this regard) wouldn't be amiss so they can be more flexable in the drones they can carry, arazu/lach should be the top of the drone bay sizes. perhaps the t1 varients could do with the same love?"
"supported."
"supported. having to use two webs per target to get them to slow down enough is annoying for a webbing specialist ship."
"indeed the rapier/huginn are weak with regard to say a curse or a rook.currently a rapier/huginn is barely able to hold down one target, they need to basicly be double pointed by a friendly and double webbed (and often bubbled as warp stabs are pretty much the item to fit for some ratters!) even then they can make it back to the gate out of point range because webs take about 10 years to slow a ship down after they land.target the poor painter bonus is a waste of time and mid slot noone fits this, target painters are pretty rubbish unless you have a couple of them and really they are so that missiles are usable and to be honest allot of stealth bombers/torp/heavy missile ships bring their own now anyway (because as we know missiles suck otherwise). the rapier needs a strength and range bonus to webs. each web should be able to reduce speed about 80% (basicly deal with one ship).the rapier is still a very good scout ship due to its speed and sometimes useful.the rapier is still a decent solo tackler with some guys in dps support and works very well in support of bombers/ other recons, it is however probably the weakest of the recons as other recons can deal with multiple targets easily, other recons also will own minmitar ones (if they dont/can't web/run) in most circumstances. great for a ship that costs about 180mil to fit properly? as we know recons are also always primaried, so they rely on their abilities to survive.. so why engage in a min recon in a fleet battle (where they should shine like other recons) today?! i basicly don't fly my huginn anymore its slow, can't cloak cant keep stuff of it with the webs and it gets primaried as an easy kill, which is a shame, because it used to be a top notch support ship."
"you make a fine argument - i hate that the game is becoming more 'cookie-cutter' with regards to ship fittings. the rig abilities themselves should be balanced out, but smaller/cheaper rigs should be stopped."
"supported also because opposite to what you think i beleive salvage and bs sized rig prices will go up."
"not supported. the rifer doesn't have rig slots for decoration; they were intended to be used. current market forces make rigging t1 sub-bc ships too expensive. this needs to be rectified.certain small and medium rigs may need to be examined closely to ensure that they don't break game balance. a frigate will get a bigger benefit from a speed rig than a battleship. right now, this is not a problem because the rig would cost you significantly more than your hull, but this could become a problem when rigged frigates are prevalent."
"i like the rig changes on sisi, so no support from me i'm afraid."
"the advantage of a t1 frigate is it's cost benefit. it's player choice that removes that advantage by adding a 3rd rig over a t2 ship.it's not an issue with rigs that drives the problems you're speaking about. it's a jacked up economic model... which i ranted about 2 years ago... that is messing with the price difference. ships are way more disposable today than they were 2 years ago. if you assume that a rigged battleship dies more often today than it did 2 years ago for the same player, then that's an issue with the income being far to disposable.people argued about inflation and inflationary pressure 2 years ago, most saying it didn't exist. look what happens when supply in a t2 market becomes limited again after an exploit was found. prices shot up and continue to go up daily still 6 months later. the argument is always about cost of rigs vs cost of ships. well what if the market weren't so jacked up that t2 ships were wildly expensive by comparison. if you removed insurance in 0.0 for instance, imagine how much more cautious people would be with ships and how much less inclined they would be to rig those ships. less loss means less demand, which ultimately means cheaper rigs. less stupid loss means less t2 loss which means lower t2 ship cost again skewing the same argument about ship cost. if price is 100% of the reason for this patch, then i think there's far better places to put dev resources than tweaking something that isn't broken. changing rigs isn't going to fix a ridiculously jacked up economy."
"supported, but the only problem i see with this idea is that a lot of ships used in mining ops are very soft and can be picked off before the guns could lock and do enough damage to prevent it. plus if the ai of the guns is like that of pos guns, then the guns would cycle too often.another idea i heard someone suggest once was having rorquals be able to deploy a very weak pos-like forcefield within which the softer barges could mine with less fear of being instapopped, which might last for, say 1 minute or so before a small 3-4 bs gang could get it down. it would still be a big race to gtfo with the rorqual itself also being at risk and you would still need proper pvp defense in the form of the proposed sentry guns and player pvp guards."
"no in every possible way. i wrote a reply but there's just so many problems with this i can't be bothered."
"sounds reasonable enough. effort vs. gain basically. imo that's what eve is all about. saying that, i agree with herschel: mid range ores should be more valuable, however, that still wouldn't solve the problem with risk vs. reward in lowsec. this topic is a good step in the right direction./support"
"there some stealth nerf to outlaws using these?'cause if these get added to the game we are going to turn lowsec into a fortress"
"no to mobile mining guns. this is what sentries are for.yes to balancing low sec better. right now there isn't any justifiable reason for going to low sec, since you are likely to get popped by a gate camp as soon as you go through.if you're lucky enough to get through, you can be popped while mining or missioning, per game design.i think that bubbles should not be allowed directly on the gates, which would help balance low-sec. you would have to place the bubble no closer than 10 km from the gate, meaning pirates would actually have to decide which entry vector they want to cover instead of blanketing all entry points. creates a strategic requirement for these guys instead of letting them mindlessly drop a bubble where it covers all entry vectors. in 0-sec bubbles could still be allowed on gates, though, since that is a big part of nullspace tactics."
"sensible."
"current situation: it is not possible to determine what the fittings are on an assembled ship unless you are in the ship. alright that isn't completely true. you can create a contract and see everything listed by that is hardly reasonable.proposed solution: add the capability to see ship fittings with show info whether you're in the ship or not."
"this would save 10 seconds a million times a week."
"ye, your fittings should be available to be seen without boarding ship"
"nerve and time saving feature, especialy when you have several pieces of the same ship with different fits in same station."
"this would be a sought after function!"
"yes, his please yes. nothing worse thn gettin into a ship just to find out its different fir thn u thought. save you 30 seconds of ur life"
"lord yes."
"."
"support"
"supportin' dis.e: or i would if i checked the box.hell yeah, check boxes"
"what i think would be a cool anti cloaking feature would be a way to anchor a decloaking lattice or maybe even singular cans. the thing with these would be that once they are anchored they cloak up. kind of like a decloaking mine field. so if a ship gets too close to one it decloaks the same as cans, except they won't be able to see them until they're on top of them. you could try and balance it by having a skill determine how many lattices you can anchor or something. your thoughts?"
"never it would be another buf to carebears"
"i say this as a pilot who uses cloaks allot on recons/covert ops/ dictorsships fitted with cloaks should be eventually probe-able with good skills in covert ops (only) with the probability based on the ships sig radius. t2 cloakers should be harder to find.if a ship is cloaked and slow/stationary it should then be possible to decloak them and kill them. sitting afk in a cloaked large ship should be risky, not lol. give us the ability to kill macro ratters/miners and solo titans more effectivly for you ccp! ships using covert ops cloaks should be harder to find and since they can move at a reasonable speed/ able to warp cloaked very difficult to catch unless cloaked stationary and afk for 2 hours like a muppet. i believe this would add more excitement to the game and require more skill with people working together to be safe or indeed find targets."
"supported"
"fuel idea rules!!!!"
"as my previous thread had too many ideas with too little response, i've narrowed it down to this one basic principle i and perhaps many others would like to see.we are able to convert cash to game time codes. we can then convert the game time codes into pilot's licence extension which when used, add an extra 30 days of game time to your account.the premise is basically as simple as the topic subject - the 100% bonus to trianing speed mechanic is available in-game already, available only to new characters upto 1.6 million skill points. i'd like to be able to trade a 30 day plex to receive a 30 day bonus training speed to my account.i'm sure this would be a relatively simple procedure given as the bonus training and plex structures are already in-game and i'm also sure ccp would like to receive some extra monies and the playerbase would like some faster learning.win-win all round. make it so!"
"no.i can't see this happening nor how this would be good.there's no point in training to lvl5 unless you're getting a specialised goods or finishing off something you're really good at. adding \"plexs\" that increase training time, would just make it a wow in space. the only thing that's fair in this game atm is training times. please do not revoke that."
"no way"
"it wont result in really large problems that arent allready there, you can now also buy other chars allready, or use several accounts at the same time for parallel training. that said i dont see any reason why it would need to go even further."
"not supported. never."
"no, that'd turn it into cash shop online."
"while i dread when i have to train a 20 day + skill and wish there was some way to speed it up, this just equates to paying cash to accelerate character advancement. however close the already in place methods may come, such as purchasing a character who already has skills, this would cross the line and cause a lot of protest. don't get me wrong, if it was in place i would use it. i just think it would cheapen the experience of having an old or advanced character."
"one of the great things about eve is that you don't really have to grind very much. a guy who is busy and wants to log in once a week can still advance his character effectively, and this is a good thing. your proposal would tell people that in order to play seriously, they have to grind cash like a wow player grinds xp. that is not something i want to see, at all."
"no, this creates even more of a gap between the haves and have nots."
"this is not wow online....hell no."
"not now, not ever, sorry, terrible idea."
"those plexes are called +5 implants and training *all* learning skills to 5. (yes also the rank 3) suddenly training is very fast.oh and well not supported."
"a great idea that would go a long way to revitalizing eve's mission system.i've got a couple of additional suggestions1. the appearance of 'props'(non-mission-critical structures) that appear in missions could vary based on the security level of the system in which they spawn. a gurista's base for example should be smaller and perhaps obscured by debris and gas clouds in high security space, whereas in say 0.5 space the base could appear larger and more well established for the same mission.2. introduce the sleeper ai.the new ai has done a lot to make encounters with the sleepers more exciting and challenging. perhaps it is time to start introducing it to known space. you could introduce the ai gradually, starting with boss ships and their support in the level 2 missions onwards.3. semi-randomly generate ship waves and turret types.varying the enemy ships that spawn has already been mentioned. it would also be good to vary the stationary turrets that appear. randomly inserting energy draining, warp scrambling and webbing structures could be a good way to encourage players to modify their strategy.cheers"
"hello there,i'm pretty sure that the topic has already been discussed somewhere but i'd like to give my thoughts about it. i'm still quite a rookie in eve (around 6 months game) and i really enjoy playing in this fantastic sandbox but (there is always something wrong), there is one specific point who makes me very bored. eve wants to be a crossover between a solid gameplay and space simulation, and you should all know that space is a huge ammount of emptyness with some matter in it.so, what kind of usual natural phenomena and objects can we see in eve atm ?- suns- planets- moons- asteroids- wormholesbut, if you like astronomical science, you also know there is a lot of more of objects in space like :- comets- meteors- gas constellation- and a lot of morealso, each category can be divided in others one. like suns, in space there is a huge ammount of suns sub-divisions, like dual suns, novae, red sun, pulsars, brown dwarfs, etc. each of these categories does not have the same attributes (dimensions, light emission, radiations, etc).i know my proposal is an utopic one, but my dream is to see one day eve with all these objects in space. entering a system, looking for a dual suns at the center of it, turning my head and looking for a distant comet, moving slowly, then warping to a planet, and being damaged by a natural magnetical phenomena.as you understood, i'd like more eye-candy and astronomical science in eve :]"
"it is theoretically possible to use player police.it isn't practical.first of all, the empires are needed from background and immersion reasons.\"come join this subs in space game we have without a story where you will be pressed into servitude\" isn't a good way to get players.also, the reason why it works in for example providence is since the area is bad enough for the bigger entities not to want it. cva and allies have done a good job of empire building (probably the only one) but compare the value of providence to for example fountain.if we were to remove concord and faction navies (and empire all together) the result would be that nbsi rules everywhere. new players would be pressed into servitude as frigate miners or similar if at all allowed to live."
"i think ccp is just beyond a point where eve is finally shifting from a startup small scale thingy into a complex project, technically engaging as well forcing the company to a lot of development and progressive work for not letting the eve-train slow down.the treatment the eve-players need has grown likewise all those rather technical apects of the game into a complex thing. you can change aspects of balancing and and gameplay without many thoughts if you run a free browser game with mediocre sized playerbase. but you cant just do that without deeper thoughts if you got literally thousands of paying customers of whom a given percentage reacts to even the slightest change in game.my point is that not only the game is evolving but the players do so too. so at this point a real good communication is necessary between developer and and player to satisfy both in the long run. if ccp gets eve thru this bottleneck and if the game gets better by all our discussions and brawls both sides win.so to all gms and and ppl involved on a workly basis: just because the train rolls doesnt mean you can spare your coal and let the fire within die!'dang im drunk and senseless i spose"
"this is important, but not nearly as important as the eve forums having a pirate smiley but not a ninja smiley. c'mon guys."
"i support."
"i have nothing to witty to say."
"the whole \"our logs don't show ...\" line is ridiculous. the only way this could be true would be if they had absolutely no activity logging of any sort.the problem is that the gms will not reply back with any concrete information. no list of events tracked, no list of events that are logged and reimbursable, nothing. it's not a hard task to extract information from the archived log files around a given timeframe. i've got to believe that there's timestamp/who/what/where/action information that could easily be given in reply.is the vagueness a cover for something embarrassing? i've never seen sincere people ever reply without sharable, concrete facts to back up there findings.- derhund"
"not having to pre-escalate my petitions would be nice."
"what's sad is, i have about 20 other stories that compare to that instance. and more still that are lesser degrees of incompetence.the troubling part about gm's is that the first response should be the end of most petitions with a resolution. yet 9/10 times the case is the petition drags on for no reason. even more frustrating, in cases of reported exploits, harassments, and eula violations, the petitioner doesn't even get a reply stating how the issue is resolved. so multiple petitions go in thinking each with the thinking that nothing has even happened leading to further frustration. even more amazing is that for petitions where bans or warnings have been issued, there is no public record to see just how often that happens or what players are abusing the system consistently. so it's very easy for the gm's to further complicate matters because there's no understanding of what's going on. i've talked to some guys who claim to have literally had 4-5 warnings on the same issue. how is that possible? shouldn't some sort of action have been handed out?"
"even though it is shocking, it is kinda cute how a big company has such a 'backyarder' approach to dealing with their customers. likely it is a reflection of a company run by nerds, who do not have professionals from customer service industries working there. \"it would be much easier to run this company without customers\" a quote from the ceo of australia's biggest retail outlet. his concern was controlling the logistics of his stock levels, and waiting on customers to buy goods was really inconvenient. ccp gives off the same feeling to its customers, we are just an inconvenience to them. i know it would be much easier to keep the servers up and running without us logging in.most of us here love this game. amazing internet spaceships, awesome stuff. running a research department to observer your competition will improve the game experience. what do other mmos do? how do they handle customer service? how do they deal with in game disconnects?yes eve is a harsh place to live. every step of the way is fraught with danger. every step of the way. cspa charges, what is that in the game for? why is it there? ccp griefs it's customers in every way imaginable. the harsh environment is part of the appeal, it is not for noobs. however, being told that the 'logs do not show anything' is not part of game play. at the very least, it is poor log design by ccp, and in a product that is as mature as eve, that basic component should work properly. and do not get me started on the eve instruction guide.eve addicts will keep logging in, new subscribers will be disappointed and leave when ccp fails, and makes their in-game life unnecessarily disappointing. getting, and giving, help is hard in a global game. language barriers, understanding of game mechanics, griefers, people scamming gms, there is a lot of issues to deal with. other mmos handle it fine. anything to improve the interaction between customers and ccp is totally supported by me.regards,krackatinnybtw, thanks for a great game, keep up the win!"
"hehe, check out my recent experience with a gm..."
"couldn't have said it better myself.i stopped sending in petitions a long time ago. doing it just feels so pointless because the gms doesn't take them seriously anyway."
"this seems like a fine idea."
"i couldnt agree more with what you are saying. i've totally lost faith in eve gms. opening a petition for reimbursement is useless because it doesnt even seem like they know how game mechanics work in the first place so they'll just reject your reimbursement almost before reading it. i dont even petition anymore because of how helpless the gms are."
"supported. awesome game, worst consumer care ever - and creating a \"csm\" to make us feel like our issues are being dealt with is just a ****ing joke.and the funny thing is, it doesn't start or end with gms. for one, we have forum mods so jacked up on crack that they seem to lock all the worthy thread, and spend more time monitoring caod (troll fest?) rather than acctually doing their jobs. eve needs a complete overhaul (and possible replacement) of its gm/mods/etc crew, cause atm they fail, and hard.(sorry if i sound harsh, but when 90% of the people i know ingame dont petition or use the forums cause they know it wont make a licking difference, even if it was ccps obvious fault.)"
"transparency is the key"
"na<U+FFFD>ve gms? eve doesn't have a grid! m0o cannot be exploiting the game that way because it doesn't work like that!(wait? it does? oh #*&@...)"
"+"
"i'll paste my 'how did we do?' reply from my last petition when i was overbilled, it sums up my views:"
"supported."
"i have to say that on the few occasions that i personally have had dealings with the gms, they have been prompt, courteous and efficient. however i have heard some pretty sad stories from people i trust about inconsistent or flat out incomprehensible rulings.given that, it's pretty much a no-brainer that more understanding and experience of the game - the extremely complex, technically advanced, highly competitive game - they're ruling on is a good thing. it would also be nice to have some public policies or guidelines. a \"gm wiki\", if you will, of decisions and precedents, that they could refer you to. this can be updated as and when when the rules change, so you don't need to worry about binding yourself.in all fairness it should also be said that very many eve players have little knowledge (or regard) for the rules either, and i hear a lot of complaints about gms that make me think \"no, duh?\". most 'griefing' and 'reimbursement' complaints i hear of fall into this category.(all the more reason for the wiki tbh.)"
"supported"
"/signedhaving to explain game mechanics when in contact with some \"gm's\" create trust."
"i got your back on this one vuk"
"supported"
"supported"
"disable cut & paste for gm answersif petition is classified as bug - gm should forward it to bug team - not tell player to file a bug report"
"supported"
"i am simply for fixing the \"our logs don't show anything\" bull****.if your logs are so unreliable. invest in a new method.too many times i have petitioned legitimate losses or queries and all i get is \"our logs dont show.. blah blah blah\"not good enough.!!!!"
"a petition shouldn't be an exercise in having your intelligence insulted."
"another great one is when you petition a system that you know is going to have 1000+ people a few hours before downtime, and the gm response you get is \"you need a director to use the application we cant help you\". when you try to tell them theres no director on atm which is why your petitioning they just tell you tough ****. or when they claim its reinforced and the node lags out at 500 people"
"vuk, i love ya man, but this could easily have been done better.i see that you point out that the gm department ****s up a lot. you pull out one of the better examples from this year, and yeah, that was a ****up.you also mention ia, which you have basically no idea what has been doing. how do we know if gms aren't getting warnings for their ****ups? fact is that we don't.you are pointing out a problem, which is communication. but you are trying to make it into an issue which you think the csm can solve.how are you going to approach ccp about this, without making the csm into seeming like a bunch of bitter people who were told that the logs shows nothing?"
"but is that not exactly the point?the total uselessness of the log files affect every singe one of us ... and yes we are all bitter, some deal with it, some go emo, some go emoragequit ... but i just wonder if any player reading this has not felt bitterly disappointed due to a petition being handled in a manner that the customer thought was unjust."
"i once asked a gm what their logs would show to them, so i could filter the issues myself an decrease the work on the gms and the answer to it was: \"not the same as your logs\"."
"couldn't agree more. i hope you're not letting the devs off the hook too, they are getting more and more detached from reality these days to the point you wonder if thay actually still play the game."
"supported. for me the problem is definitly the low level gm's; they are utterly useless.i remember one particularly amusing incident for me. i logged off after having some pewpew with bob/tri in one system. an hour later my ship was destroyed by tri in another system. a certain gm (a uniquely useless example imo, lamentably named for one of those religious holidays in febuary) decided that the above was perfectly within game mechanics. the next normal gm (after i cussed that one out) said it was wierd, but were not reimbursing. i escalated and a senior gave me my ship back in about an hour <3"
"sort out the jump clones issues and our skillpoints that we lose.we should be able to be reimbursed on skillpoints and implants regardless if is not on session logs."
"it has gotten to the point that you just auto escalate because you know that the low level gm isn't going to read your petition. or that is the general impression in the experienced world. there is a major lack of faith in the low level gm population."
"complete lack of faith, i never bother with gms when some ingame issues occur as i know they wont read it or deal with it and will send out the generic..."
"vote prodont know where is my tumb up"
"i like this product."
"i have given up on getting any sort of inteligent response from gm's so that i no longer bother to petition anything. also, zee logs show nothing."
"well even if they are getting warning/fines which i am 99% positive they dont, i still dont see any improvement, and i must add that my experience with ccp/gm dept goes back to 4s corporation name scandal. i am so said that nda, tos, eula etc. tied my hands, but you cant believe the ammount of gm **** i received in last 12 hours. communication is not the problem, problem is that gm dept s.u.c.k. and ofcourse i am not delusional to believe that csm can use magic wand and solve the problem. i am sure ccp is aware of the issue, but i am also sure they are not aware/or just dont care cause subscriptions are going up of the size of the problem. csm can (atleast i believe, and thats why i ran for csm) show them about importance of the issue.yes people are whining about the logs, but logs are the least of the problem here.and for the end, yes i agree that this could be done a much better. if i was not csm delegate and someone who represent at least my corporation and my alliance this thread would be much much worse (in terms of civilness sp?).sadly my gametime is severely limited last couple of weeks due to rl stuff so i didnt had much free time to made more detailed and explicit thread on time to meet deadline to raise this issue for iceland meeting.also as i said i met many ccp guys and you can see in everyone of them passion about eve and they really made something unique, the game without any competition. also the maturity and hospitality they showed towards csm was nothing but exceptional. but before csm delegate i am first a customer, and purpose of bringing this issue was to make whole eve experience better to everyone, both players and ccp."
"some of the low level gm's are very uninformed.worse, a large percentage of them seem to exhibit bias, although this could be the above.a particular issues lies with missionrunners successfully petitioning to have missions reset and ships reimbursed when according to ccp policy they should not have such carried out.its really rather damning when someone gloats they know a gm and guess what, a few days later something happen that runs contrary to established policy.special interest and knowledgethere is still a real problem with players having access to information they shouldn't have.recently the aggro alliance forums were compromised and it was exposed that they had been informed by someone working for ccp that motherships were going to be re-designed in the next big patch.rconmore recent still are grumblings about the owner of scrapheapchallenge, specifically the banning of individuals from a private forum using knowledge only available to a gm or ccp employee. edit: it would be nice if ia actually functioned as it should, they have a reputation for ignoring anything that isnt going to make a splash when they commit it to the bin."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"imo this is definitely true. i haven't been playing as long as some of you guys but hell i've seen a lot of bad calls on the part of the gm's some of which have lead to long term players quitting the game which is the saddest of all things as player retention should surely be a high priority.i have seen two major issues one where a player i know took a screen shot of him in his ship 15 minutes (by screen clock) after he was podded to offer supporting evidence of the fact he had no control over his ship loss and was then told he faked the image to get a reimbursement.second of someone deliberately manipulating the character bazaar to make it look like someone had accepted isk and then not transferred a character. the victim was banned from the game and then when the gm's actually realized that the post was an edited one when his account was reinstated he had 6 billion isk negatively adjusted from his account. nothing was done to the player who faked the post on the bazaar and the victim was never given the isk back. there are some awesome gm's who clearly take a lot of pride in their work but to be honest the \"auto escalate my complaint\" attitude of many players is well founded and based on recieving one too many copy paste responses.eve is too good a game to let this continue."
"thums up . gm have to get their act together."
"in my time i have had some petitions answered by very competant gms but by the same token had some answered by gms who's grasp of both the english language and game mechanics was pretty poor. there certainly needs to be more training and more oversight."
"i've only seen 1 incident with reinforcing a system that was going to have some 600-700 people where there was an issue but that was back in 2007 so it might not apply still, where both sides had filled petition, but people were lagging out at 200 or so, the main reason i suspect why it was ignored because they were less known alliances(dark matter coalition and pure)"
"supporting"
"i have contributed to the work load with my shares of potitines. then again, 95% of those are becuase of failed game mechanics between patches and creatings of exploits/uknown bugs.the big problem is when gm's have no idea how most the game mechianics should work, that or they don't care to read the potition and are so overloaded they skip the point. it's a joke to get these automated responses, expecialy when i have got many responses that are not even pointed to the issues that is in question. the best part is there is so many grey areas with the rules and reimbursment, that just based off the gm's mood or relationship to the player can determin the outcome of the potition.best yet!when the denial of responsability by the ccp team to not acknowlage unkown bugs as a right to entitlment for reimbursment. if somthing is clearly broken and not normal without having any published note changes then ccp should take full responsability of falt."
"has anyone considered how flawed rr is in comparison to its local counterpart? could it be why rr bss are so prevalent? i think it might be. after looking at the numbers, why would anyone want to fit a local rep?large armor repair iicpu - 55tfgrid - 2300mwactivation - 400 gjrepaired - 800 hpefficiency - 2 hp/gjduration - 12s (repair systems iv)net repair amt - 66.67 hp/srequires a tank/low slotlarge remote armor repair iicpu - 48tfgrid - 660mwactivation - 201.6 gj (remote armor repair systems iv)repaired - 384hpefficiency - 1.905 hp/gjduration - 4.5snet repair amt - 85.33 hp/srequires a utility/high slotso, looking at the above, you can see the incentives to using a lrar ii.*lrar ii costs much less to fit.*lrar ii is 96% as cap efficient.*lrar ii has a much lower repair interval.*lrar ii requires half the initial activation cost.*lrar ii repairs more over time.*lrar ii doesn't occupy a tank slot.this desperately needs to be looked at. i'm not the one to decide what the balance between remote and local reppers should be, but as of now, there is absolutely no reason to fit an armor repper when you and your wingman can repair better than you can independently, and you both have a spare slot to fit more resistance/buffer.please bring this to the attention of ccp, fixing this would reduce stationary bs blob considerably."
"yeah, man. we wouldn't want people to think that teamwork is a good thing."
"i don't particularly support it because i think there are good counters to a standard rr fleet. carriers are another issue, for another thread.but he does kinda make a valid point. between extender/plate setups and rr setups, personal active tanks are slowly being diminished overtime for any activities outside of pve. it's probably an issue that does need some consideration, but i honestly don't know what kind."
"don't support the issue.you cannot do a direct compare of raw statistics for local and remote repair. remote repair requires another player to operate and all the possible problems with coordination that entails. i favor the use of remote repair as it requires more skill/support from a player perspective to implement versus just clicking your own module."
"not supported.a little too off the wall for my tastes.teamwork is also a major factor here."
"this. it's all well and good to say rr is better, until you try to fly solo.edit: whoops, accidentally supported. good thing i reread this thread."
"in regards to this, in pvp your not ment to fly solo unless your very stupid, this is a mmo after all."
"on the other hand local reppers can't be jammed."
"supported. it doesn't make sense that a rar is better than a lar by such a degree. if anything, the lar should be better because of internal repairing. furthermore, it doesn't have the vacuum of space to work around. the way i see it, rar should be a supplement to existing repair, not a superseded replacement.i think switching the fitting requirements would be a good start, and maybe increasing the rar duration and decreasing the lar duration so that the damage repaired over time are switched. the efficiency can stay how it is.but please, give a boost to range. 8500m is ridiculously short range. should be way higher, maybe with a falloff."
"local tanks are still superior for small gang work imho. there are no faction remote reps, remote reps are not affected by boosters... etc etc."
"not supported.i think this is just another knee-jerk reaction."
"eve should be a massively singleplayer online rpg c/d?"
"well for solo you would fit tanking rigs and then the stats would move towards the lar i think."
"hooo boy... red herring arguments ftw. this is not about teamwork, it's about the lack of place for local reps because remote reps are a much better tool for the job. teamwork is good, nullifying an internal module because a wingman can do it better is not.if you're going to invalidate the issue, at least provide an argument to back it up.the lack of faction rr and rr boosters (both special cases) is not an excuse as to why rr is better in so many ways. and furthermore, all you need is one wingman to be close to you to get better benefits than you can provide for yourself. that's hardly explaining how local tanks are superior for small gangs.if it serves the same purpose in much the same way, you certainly can compare the raw statistics.with many configurations, there is little coordination required. and yes it can be a support role, but it becomes a matter of mutual benefit once everyone has them equipped, then the support argument goes right out the window. as for skill, there's not much involved except for learning how to operate it properly (as is the case for local reps).i don't have a problem with teammates helping each other, but this isn't a case of helping other teammates, it's a case of letting someone else do the job for them because nobody is capable of doing a proper job himself. taking out a webber is helping your teammate. rr is not only helping out your teammate, it makes local reps obsolete. the fitting requirements alone are proof enough of that.oh, and i suppose i may as well support my own idea./supported"
"unless for shield tanking. then we want people to think that teamwork is a terrible thing."
"allen, this wouldn't have anything to do with not listening to good 'ole viktor vegas and going ahead to try to gank my dominix, resulting in losing a couple of rigged ships, would it? local rep already has a place in small gang warfare- for instance, most battlecruiser class ships will generally use local rep, and in small engagements, it's not uncommon to see battleships using local rep as well. the bottom line is that local rep already has a place- in small gang warfare, and in pve. boosting local rep by the degree you're suggesting would remove the viability of plated setups. additionally, i think you underestimate the drawbacks of rr- as soon as your rr gets jammed, or you move out of their short range, you're basically screwed. imo the system is fairly well balanced as is, and there's no need for this change."
"i would like to see in the future some kind of pos structure like a jump gate that can link between pos's in unknown space. this will allow expansion of corps through w-space and remain linked to the systems."
"hello all, this has been bothering me sence i got eve.i have duel moniters. so, when i was on wow (yes i played wow), it allowed me to drag its program window from one screen to the other screen, and then expand it to fit the other screen (one screen is larger than the other).but on eve, when i try this, it allows me to drag to the other screen, but i cannot expand it.i have also tried to do fullscreen mode, use the option for it to be displayed in my larger screen. but when i do that, i cannot get the cursor to leave the screen with the full sized program on it without alt-tab which causes the eve program to go black.if anyone forum moderators can bring this to a devs attentions, trhat would be nice. but if anyone has a little trick they do, that would be nice too."
"i was on way to make a similar topic. i'd really like to move only my overview & chat windows to my other screen (wich is smaller than my main screen) and play eve on the main one."
"i normally like most others put both games on the same window and the put them into windowed mode, drag across and try and pull the edges to fit my screen the best i can.other thn tht, not much u can do but will support the wow feature to be added (ing, can't believe i just supported a thread with the word wow in it)gib"
"current situation: when the assets window is opened to all items the only determination of where a \"station\" lies is either by the name or number of jumps from your current location. in the case of outpost in 0.0 space a station could be renamed to not tell you anything useful.proposed solution: the addition of another tab called \"by region\" where it'll show the stations split up by the regions which they exist in. or add the region name in parentheses before or after the number of jumps."
"this could be very handy even in high sec.... or anywhere else.supported."
"i'm always in favour of more ways to display information."
"supportin' dis."
"about time!"
"there is already a tab for that where you can filter by region. right next to \"all items\"i dont see we need any actions."
"it only give the hangar content of region where you are."
"wrong. you got a drop down box where you can choose over regions. i use that feature heavily for planning hauling routes after shopping. maybe you missed the addition of the feature?edit: typos"
"current situation:there can be a substantial delay with the ui revealing hangar contents when clicking between tabs in a corporate hangar, whether it is within a station, pos module, or capital ship. this is especially troublesome when you're in a hurry to find something and have to suffer this wait. proposed solution:i propose that ccp investigate whether improvements to refresh rate of hangar contents loading can be improved."
"oh, come on - having to search through a hundred hangars at a pos to find a blueprint isn't your idea of a fun time? supported wholeheartedly."
"supportin' dis."
"supporting to increase the loading time. for finding things quickly we got the little search box on the right now. :)"
"ha! they should do more than that. gassing is easily the most boring part of the game. it also looks the worst. its need a good revamp even if its just visual, like what they did with the ore mining. but hopefully they also add some more interesting gameplay to it. even if it just changing the visuals and having multiple pockets of clouds."
"always liked the prophecy myself, but only because of it's looks (i'm so shallow). i always use projectiles on it though, which is so wrong as it's the amarr enemy's weapon of choice. i love the idea of making the prophecy more of a drone boat. amarr are the only other race aside from the gallente that have dedicated drone ships (arbitrator and variants, legion) so it is fitting that they get a bc with drones bonuses too. there's certainly no benefit to using lasers on it at the moment."
"this"
"i bash people who snipe with unfounded arguemnts that have already been derailed in the original post. if you come to make a point one way or the other, i expect something more than you're just wrong cause you can't possibly be right arguements. it would take one post on here with straight facts backed up with numbers to get me to change my pov. when you disrespect me or anyone else's ideas on here or anywhere, you damn well deserve no respect. in the op, i slayed out the numbers describing exactly why tank is not a valid argument for the proph. not one person that has argued otherwise has yet to play with eft, and show numbers that contradict that statement. of the rest, you look at guys who took 5-10 minutes to play with eft, or who have vast experience using said ships in game and they agree. assumptions drive me insane. i mean wtf kinda argument is, \"it has a resist bonus, surely it's tank is da best\". it's those kinda assumptions that separate people who are good and bad at this game. if you show me the proper respect by actually throwing out an educated commentary, i'll return it to you. if you just troll, you're damn well right i'll throw it back in your face. that's life, get over it. you sure as hell aren't protected from it just because you hide behind a computer screen."
"you need to consider the fact it has no bonus to dmg, so therefore rack in 220mm ac's and 2 plates, laugh with ur 400dps and 120k buffer, the ships just not cut out for lasers but can still be useful and cheaper thn tier 2, not supportred because there's is ways to make or work"
"ok, so i went back to do some eft warrioring, and i was pretty surprised at the results (on paper).the proph is pretty good.the proph will out active tank the harby (with about 150 less dps in my setups) in any instance:[prophecy, pew pew]medium armor repairer iimedium armor repairer iienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iiheat sink iidamage control ii10mn afterburner iiwarp disruptor iimedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 400focused medium pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency m'arbalest' heavy assault missile launcher i, caldari navy torrent assault missileauxiliary nano pump iauxiliary nano pump iauxiliary nano pump ihobgoblin ii x5-----[harbinger, pew pew lazors]heat sink iimedium armor repairer iimedium armor repairer iienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iidamage control ii10mn afterburner iiinitiated harmonic warp scrambler i'langour' drive disruptor imedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 400heavy pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency m[empty high slot][empty high slot]auxiliary nano pump iauxiliary nano pump iauxiliary nano pump ihammerhead ii x5-----1 rep on the harby and an extra heatsink for more gank, less tank.the proph will be able to put up a better buffer thank than the harby (from 7-20k extra ehp), but with significant dps losses (165-215 less dps than 545). it would loose a 1v1, but it makes a good bait ship with teeth.edit: they also make fine rr boats :)"
"if your going to do anything with it then remove the turret hardpoints nad replace with launchers and replace the cap bonus with a ham damage bonus and then i will be very happy ^_^"
"problems with your fitting tactic:harbinger has 2 slots left unfit.both ships are using afterburners which are uncommon in pvp setups, but we'll go with that one.fittings considerations with your proposed fits. proph is maxed on grid and cpu, harb still has room to play.harb still has the option to remove it's heatsink, overcome the proph ehp and come to within 49dps tankable dmg. all this while doing considerably more damage still.suggestions: swap 6 heavy pulse with 7 focused on the harb, you'll do 2 more dps, and save massive fittings. also have at some plate setups. also keep in mind you have an extra mid to play with for utility and if you have the fittings, an extra high slot for whatever for comparison. i'm guessing your point was to go with max active tank. problem with that is you can passive tank a bate harb or proph and get the equivalent of 140 seconds of tank with plates. most bate ships don't get a chance to bate longer than that."
"thats ok.i like afterburners :)i like the extra range though :) (but i see your point.i made some plate setups. those active tanks are in no way bait ships. active tanks are for solo or small gang work."
"current situation: the graphics affected by \"effects\" option under effects in display & graphics menu covers too many graphical effects. if you have it turned off you miss seeing doomsdays and useful things like being able to tell is a ship is being repaired remotely or in triage. if you have it turned on you are overwhelmed by seeing everyone who is sensor boosting along with everything else.proposed solution: create three new options: combat effects (i.e. doomsdays), projected effects (i.e. remote reps), and localized effects (i.e. sensor boosters.) it could be expanded even further to distinguish between helpful and hurtful effects."
"i'm down with this."
"makes sense."
"supportin' dis."
"good proposal"
"yes please"
"many of us know that the bounty system is easily exploited when a pilot has a large bounty on her head, to simply send out a friend or alt to pod her and collect the bounty. maybe this idea has been shown before, but....to help stop this from happening, why not let the bounty only be paid when the value of the ship, modules and/or implants *destroyed* add up to more than the bounty amount itself?the value of items and implants destroyed is shown on outside killmail sites all the time and this could definitely put an end to bounty abuse in a simple way since you or your friend would have to lose more items than what the bounty is worth.yay? nay?just a casual idea.~lz"
"easier way: get rid of the whole bounties system./thread"
"um, no, not \"/thread\".bounties should be a primary mechanism for non-combat focused players to deter aggression. the fact that they're currently completely useless for this is a weeping sore in high-sec play balance. bounty hunters should be one of the primary \"consequences\" for hi-sec aggression. currently there is only the easily-escaped war-dec. thus the risk/reward of hi-sec is out of kilter.it also makes stillborn one of the most popularly enquired about professions.fixing the bounty system would probably be one of the most significant improvements ccp could make to hi-sec. i'd put it on a par with fixing sov in 0.0.ops suggestion needs refinement, but it's along the right lines. almost anything would be better than the pointless system we have now."
"not supported... the idea is totally ridiculous and vastly complicated.if your going to fix the system... you need to put in safeguards that prevent the system from being abused.the only thing i can think of is bounty office/hunters guild or deputy system where they are tasked to hunt down these targets.much like a militia... but that could be complicate in itself.to qualify you'd have to have a positive sec rating with concord... you'd go to concord offices to get bounties that are assigned by how \"good\" you are as far as a citizen or combat rating or what not... and you go hunt them... hell you could even pay concord to have them track there location to make it a bit more exciting.... and you'd have to have proper standings so alt-abuse would be a bit difficult.concord is law enforcement... so let them deputize bounty hunters to do the job.otherwise all other routes would just make it too easy to abuse/bypass/exploit."
"what if the bounty system were changed to a bounty countract system? when you get kill rights on someone, that would enable you to put out bounty contracts on them. you'd offer a reward, set a time frame (like 7 days) and specify a minimum ship size, acceptable ship categories, minimum base value of modules etc. the payout would be made on the destruction of the ship rather than the pod. so anyone with kill rights on someone can create a contract against them and set it up privately to the bounty hunter of their choice. while the contract is active, the issuer's kill rights for the target are temporarily transferred to the issuee. you would only have one contract out on someone at a time but as kill rights last 30 days you could place several week-long contracts one after another with different hunters. it means that the consequence for attacking someone in a manner that gives kill rights is that for 30 days you could have bounty hunters on your tail and you won't know who it is.of course this doesn't address the issue of kill rights themselves not actually being awarded for much other than suicide ganks, which are usually performed in almost free-to-lose ships by alts. or low sec piracy, where it doesn't help because the pirates are usually -10 anyway."
"maybe i expand on your ideas a little bit. what if you can't see if you have a bounty on your head. you have to have good sec rating with concord and you are given specific people to hunt (up to 2-10 i don't know)"
"a very similar system was submitted to ccp by the csm previously, and while the response was somewhat ambiguous(in essence, \"we'd like to, but it's a hell of a lot of work\"), the idea seems to have been well-received, and it was virtually identical to your proposal except more detailed. also of note, your system isn't as simple as you think it is. killboard valuations tend to be hilariously wrong, and getting a system that actually works as a game mechanic is not an easy problem to solve."
"supported, as long as it's optional. low priority, but getting a chat client up to 1995 standards seems like a good idea."
"\"righto guys, we're attacking, when we jump into through dump a whole bunch of emoticons so they lag.\""
"that doesn't even make sense. have you ever actually used any program with emoticons?"
"i believe that walking in stations will bring a new aspect to eve gameplay not onnly on the socializing aspect of going to a trading hub like jita and chilling with thousands of people but actual warfare can be improved aswell:for example say have your fleet has a guy warp scammed and web'd then everyone one else with the raiding skills or what ever can actually board his ship and try to seize it in a little brawl or fire fight inside the ship.the same can go for pos in low sec & 0.0.jump clones can have actual animation not u just pop up somewhere but you step out of a machine where you might see others respawning at to if they have clones there or whateveri mean there are other ways to make this part of military tactics,making income,and improving the game. which im sure others will suggest below"
"i understand that ccp does not want combat in walking in stations but what if you could only combat in low sec or 0.0 stations or a pos but never in high sec.i do understand that there could be a butterfly effect if combat was allowed such as a fleet is outnumbered so they dock to escape them. now most of the time when your docked you are safe until you undock now if combat was included or wasnt included when you dock they dock follow you in station and torment you until you log off or undock and which you die.or if combat was included in this you could send the ones who docked packing and to a jump clone location .so i mean my point is if combat or not there will be tactics that make it warfare so why not go ahead and make it actual combat in some stations. on the high sec note maybe a solution could be anyone who fights in a high sec station concord either makes you undock as a punishment of your aggression and cant dock again for 30 or 15 minutes. this would prevent violent crimes. because even if you cant actually fight people in stations there will still be tactics that make it warfare. using stalking,spying on conversations,harrassment. each can cause political changes so not including actual combat wont change things you just cant actually fight character to character but it will still happen in otehr forms. but there are ways to include such things and add barriers on certain actions."
"ccp has expressed interest in expanding gameplay mechanics into new areas, and down the road something like this might be among them. but that will be several more years at least. in the short term this isn't going to happen. walking in stations has all ready been through long delays and is controversial enough to the current player-base that ccp will certainly want some time to gauge the impact before even considering something more."
"as long as it can be completely disabled from settings without impacting on gameplay in any way at all.a user who choses to should be able to disable wis 100% and not be missing out on any access to the market etc.no feature inside wis should be play-critical.a user should be able to do 100% of eve \"stuff\" with wis disabled."
"imagine what could be done to the ui if it was the focus instead of wow-esk \"content\" \"expansions\"."
"guy dont think about yourselves walking in stations may not appeal to some hardcore ppl but it will to ppl who are interested in the game. this is outerspace ppl have to live and etc so showing there is more to eve that just epic battle will bring a more submerging environment having jita as a real civilzation trading hub not just a gas staion with but a actual trading hub and etc.i mean if walking in stattion is done properly it would bring tons of im sick of wow players here and maybe itll be a become a million plus player game cuz i mean just expanding on walking in stations it can be taken to a whole new height"
"isd approve my wiki pages plox!!!"
"23 issues? aasfdyhasfgha"
"well you guys surely work hard for your 'free trip to iceland'!keep it up!"
"csm 3 meeting 7 - sunday august 9th, 16:00the seventh issues meeting of csm3 on august 9th at 16:00. this is the last meeting before the issue deadline for the csm/ccp meet in iceland expires.issue submission deadline will be august 8th 16:00items on the agenda:1: rebalance 0.0 and lowsec ratting (zastrow)2: competence of the gm department (vuk)3: black ops and titan able to lock on pos cyno beacons<U+200E> (avalloc)4: docking subcapital ships into (super)capital ships (zastrow)5: split the show effects setting into separate options.<U+200E> (avalloc)6: add skill which reduces jump clone timer just a little bit.<U+200E> (avalloc)7: improve refresh time on loading corporate hangar contents.<U+200E> (avalloc)8: ship fittings visible via show info without boarding ship.<U+200E> (avalloc)9: store bookmark folders server-side.<U+200E>10: improve people & places search results for solar systems.<U+200E> (avalloc)11: improve the market ui for identifying your own buy & sell.<U+200E> 12: add the feature of switching characters without relogging.<U+200E> (avalloc)13: ui improve fleet commander ui by showing fleet composition.<U+200E> (avalloc)14: pos reduce pod fuel requirements for jump bridges back to zero.<U+200E> (avalloc)15: ui separate jump to and open jump bridge further in titan ui.<U+200E> (avalloc)16: faster csm process for minor issues (avalloc)"
"because there is too many carebears on the csm..."
"please do this, i have been annoyed by this for quite some time playing at max resolution but having to squint or move closer to the monitor in order to make sure i read something correctly. i recently read a thread that suggested a way to fix the font size, went to change it thinking i had been unnecessarily penalizing myself all along, only to discover that i already had it set to the largest setting >.<if they are really dead-set on using said font, at least let us make it larger :("
"oops"
"what do you describe an anti-af bs as? dual web + point is too vague."
"i'm asking you- supporters have been implying that afs suck because a battleship fit to hit an af can kill it- what the hell is wrong with a specifically fit battleship that takes months to properly train into, and at least 3 times as much to fit being able to kill a frigate you can train into in 2 weeks?"
"supported."
"tortugan... i've not checked this thread in like weeks and you're still here droning on and regurgitating the same debunked objections for no discernable purpose other than to have something to do while you camp the jita undock. c+p/coad/general--->that way"
"yes, most definitely yes. in almost all classes, be it shield or armor, missile or turret, ab or mwd, the afs suffer from being too weak for their price. granted, the rigs change in the coming 1.5 patch will improve things, but they'll also improve things for the target, i.e. cruisers and t1 frigs will also have access to cheaper rigs. in fact after tzhe rigs patch t1 frigs will be even closer to t2 afs and given that eve is very much a rock/paper/scissors type of game where you can never fit an absolute winning combo, t2 afs will be running an even greater danger against t1 frigs, since t1 frigs will as often as not motivated to fit gank rigs since they cost little and t2 afs will be motivated to fit tank rigs to protect their investment.or at least that's the way i see it. eve seems to be a game where you win by playing to your strengths and lose by playing to your weaknesses, i.e. the whole risk vs. reward thing. put in those terms, t2 afs are a big risk for the rewards they promise."
"jag boost? gief!"
"this deserves the authentic seal of seppo, the biggest sign of approval!"
"agreed"
"any battleship should be able to take down an af if fitted for doing so. if you have some neuts +dual web and can turn off mwd/afterburner you should be able to hurt them pretty well. warp scrambler might work well too seeing as nearly all frigates have mwd equipped. i would say you'd have better success with a cruiser/battlecruiser for destroying afs though. they're faster and guns don't quite suck as much at tracking. i don't see any problem with that."
"agreed tracking/explosive velocity bonus needed."
"i showed this thread to my vengeance and seeing its little eyes light up with hope was heartwarming.don't make my vengeance cry."
"]in ye oll days of eve online missiles would actualy launch fowerds and then curve off smoothly to track its target just like a missile should, if that came back then it would be possable ^_^"
"/me thumbs up"
"supported becouse the rocket slots on my hurricane feel weak."
"they would just move to a player corp.they would also just rotate corps to keep from being decced.main + alt = 6 possible corps tha gotta be over 1bill to dec all six :("
"agree!"
"weapon sounds out of cynch, bad sound positioning (weapon sounds 200km from firing ships for example), pops and hisses when the sound engine breaks (lately happens when using the f10 map), etc.a 3-d sound engine is nothing new. hundreds of games have it, and have had it for years. surely fixing this isn't beyond ccp's capabilities."
"/supported!"
"supported....if we also could have ventrilo integration that mutes ingame sound when someone speaks.... *dreams on*"
"supported"
"i have an anchored offline pos for which the owning character hasn't logged in for 2 months.the pos is very much active although offline and not being used regularly at the moment.i don't want to have to buy a new one just because someone wanted to garbage collect non-lagging items.placeholder pos on a valuable moon? destroy it.not supported"
"very true.nothing should be done to garbage collect pos until the mechanic itself is fixed.once the feature actually works as indended, then maybe look into garbage collection, if it's really an issue at all."
"signed for hacking abandoned pos"
"."
"opposed to this idea:1. using offline pos to block moons in some systems is a great tactic for space holding alliances. for those unfamiliar with 0.0 pos warfare, it's done so that if hostiles attack, logistics personnel run around and quickly online them. they are most often anchored with a number of days of fuel and appropriate level of strontium.in very high moon count systems, anchoring even small pos at every moon becomes prohibitively expensive. in these cases, anchored large pos give the defending alliance an edge on attackers. if they can online towers before they are destroyed, it helps the defender's sov-claiming count. note that all alliances are limited to anchoring 5 towers per day per system. there is no limit to how many pos you can online in a day. it should remain this way.not every alliance has the income resources to maintain a good buffer of online pos due to fuel costs. anchoring offline towers gives the little guys a chance against pos-spam, particularly in station systems with poor truesec which 0.0 is littered with.2. in the case of high sec moons, simply wardec the owning corp and blow it up. if there's an issue being unable to wardec closed corps with abandoned pos, then ccp should address that either by fixing the wardec system, or simply remove these towers via the petition system."
"moon squatters in your space?initiate wardec.fit and insure tech 1 fit armageddon.shoot towergo to bed.???profit!it's not rocket science gents. i'm also against making a tower become unanchored after a set period of time. it'd reduce (slightly) the isk sink pos structures are responsible for and if you're too lazy/inept to take a moon for yourself then you shouldn't have it."
"supported - if its the only way you can filter them on your directional scanner."
"go back and get justification"
"well, you can do that now, the proposal simply removes a whole lot of pointless tedium from the process. a willingness to be vigilant should be what saves me from attack, not a high tolerance for tedium and sifting through five pos's, fifteen moons, ten silos, twenty small pulse laser batteries and a partridge in a pear tree.supported."
"this proposal offers one approach to balancing the rewards of mission running in high security space versus ratting in lowsec and 0.0. ccp plans on revamping 0.0 later this year or next, and i thought it would be beneficial to offer them some ideas from the perspective of a long term resident of 0.0.the problem:according to my research, the isk/hour earned running level 4 highsec combat missions on a single account is roughly 20m/hour, and can be accomplished with a 3-4 month old character. the 20m figure may or may not include salvaging dense missions, and the isk generated from items obtainable from various corporate lp stores. there is nominally no risk associated with this activity, at least if you are a member of an npc corp, and no downtime. some empire residents claim the actual figure can be much higher - 30m/hour.life in 0.0 is not insanely profitable in and of itself. during my three years in eve, i made most of my isk through importation of t2 modules to 0.0 and small scale, select production (mostly rigs). i have earned a substantial amount of isk ratting, though, and am quite familiar with that activity. i haven't mined since goonswarm resided in syndicate, and buy orders for zydrine were 4800 isk.the problem with 0.0 is most of the systems in it are \"worthless\". the gates and belts won't spawn rats with bounties above 950k (if that high), they won't get officer spawns, and the asteroid belts won't produce the abc ores. npc 0.0 has missions available, but unless you are performing missions for a pirate faction, there are few good reasons to do level 4 missions. the \"low security rating\" differential payed in terms of mission rewards does not come close, in my opinion, to offset the risk, either in 0.0 or lowsec.in short, if you were advising a player as to the most profitable career they could undertake in the short term, you'd suggest level 4 combat missions in highsec.how we got here:ccp made eve a better game. they made warp to 0, and got rid of bookmark sets. they eliminated the t2 bpo lottery. they even eliminated the lottery of what rewards storyline missions offered, and made every mission you ran for npc corps count for something by creating the lp store. they added rigs to give players more means to fit ships. they added half a dozen new regions, the drone regions. they eliminated the value of holding a handful of specific systems by largely eliminating static complexes (there are still a few left, believe it or not). they significantly improved pos warfare. for those who view it as a mind numbing slog today, we once had towers with 5 day stront timers that would instapop an interceptor at 350 km.the net effects of all of these things, today, is highsec is a more profitable place to live than ever before. the drone regions and their resulting mineral yields crashed both high and mid end mineral prices. eliminating npc shuttles, changing rat/mission loot yields, and expanding the size of t1 unnamed module drops from 5 m3 to as high as 50 m3 sent tritanium prices through the roof. mining veld in highsec in a hulk is reportedly worth 5-7m isk/hour and thats direct to cargo mining/docking not into a jetcan.more relevant to this discussion, the value of time spent ratting and mining in 0.0 has sunk enormously since i began playing in 2006. pirate faction module drops are now subject to price pressures from equivalent (often better) highsec navy faction lp rewards. the contract prices on a shadow serpentis mag field stabilizer seem higher than those for one from the gallente navy lp store, but the module stats are identical. only deadspace loot has retained its value."
"the last time i mined in eve was in syndicate. you could comfortably make about 20m / hour in an osprey ninja mining crokite, assuming a hostile didn't come along and pop you or your jetcan. i payed for my first ratting battleship that way, running the zydrine up the pipe to empire in a frigate and selling it to 4800 isk buy orders. zydrine buy orders are now in the 1400-1500 range. thanks ccp and drone regions. megacyte has crashed too, but by my guess only about 50% compared to the 70% suffered by zydrine. i've never spent much time in lowsec, aside from transiting. i never understood the appeal of losing sec status in pvp when you could do the same in 0.0 without recourse. that said, my view of lowsec is that it's the worst of all worlds. mid range ore mining crashed along with high ends. the only thing lowsec has that highsec doesn't are level 5 missions, and perhaps better access to wormholes. from what i know, level 5 missions aren't particular popular, but please weigh in if you have knowledge in that regard. ccp did improve lowsec with apocrypha by adding some bs rats (you could get faction cruisers there even back in the day). i feel lowsec still has a long way to go to entice more than \"pirates\" and capital ship producers from setting up shop there.some words about exploration:this has been a great boon to those who choose to invest the time, skillpoints, and effort. the days of fighting over static plexes are largely gone, even though goons nominally live in delve today partly because of a disagreement over one of the few existing static plexes.that said, should a player have to run around different constellations scanning for various sites in order to make a good living in 0.0? ratting has already been made more difficult by eliminating the ability to see npc's on the directional scanner. you can even argue that high belt count systems are much inferior to, say, 8 belt systems because you can't easily check the belts for faction or officer spawns as a result.exploration, while very profitable, is best exploited by those who can play for several hours without interruption, have taken the time to learn about how to do it efficiently, and ideally work with other players or have multiple accounts in order to tank the most difficult encounters. although there are many stories about running escalations across several systems that yielded nothing in the end, i feel exploration as a whole is a largely well balanced activity today. it's just not the preferred activity for all."
"approaches to my solution:i specifically want to avoid nerfing highsec activities. i don't have a personal issue with people who don't want to leave highsec. they obviously make up the majority of players in this game, and i don't believe it would be beneficial to the future of eve to \"force\" them into lowsec or 0.0 to maintain the isk/hour they are accustomed to. if you nerf mission running by, say, 50%, then someone's 6 month goal becomes a 1 year goal. that's a good way to get people to quit the game. while eve certainly doesn't need 300k more accounts to continue to be viable, it won't do well with 50k less. therefore, my approach is how to make time spent in lowsec and 0.0 pve more valuable, rather than time spent in highsec pve less valuable.feel free to rant about how eve would be a much better game without all those empire pubbies. suggest how there should be no highsec at all, and everything should be all lowsec/0.0 all the time, because eve should be a hard core gamer's game and all that. i'll ignore you, since this view ignores reality. most eve players live in highsec and they like it that way.ratting:ratting as a means of income was made more difficult in late 2006 - early 2007 when off grid npc ships were removed from the directional scanner. prior to then, you could enter a system and quickly check for officers, faction or hauler spawns, or even to just see the value of spawns currently up. i suppose ccp felt this was too easy, as i don't recall a specific reason for that change. i don't have a big problem things as they are, although it seems to me that around the same time or later the rate at which rats would warp to different belts seemed to increase. this makes locating valuable spawns more difficult in high (15+) belt count systems."
"the thing that makes most 0.0 worthless is its \"truesec\" rating. outside of pirate sov npc space, truesec determines the maximum value of bs spawns, whether or not officers can spawn, and to my knowledge the frequency of faction spawns. lower truesec is better. change how truesec functions and you change the value of lowsec and 0.0 space when it comes to ratting. here is my proposal for that change, breaking down the values into 5 categories:1) lowsec - increase max bs spawn to triple 1.1m bounties. essentially make all of lowsec roughly equivalent to what you can get in an -0.4 system today, including any related increase in faction and hauler spawns.2) all of 0.0 - eliminate all spawns that don't have a battleship. pruning cruiser spawns out of even perfect truesec systems takes hours and it's completely ridiculous.3) \"poor\" truesec 0.0 (roughly 0.0 to -0.3) - increase max value bs spawn to triple 1.4m.4) \"fair\" truesec 0.0 (roughly -0.4 to -0.6) - increase max value bs spawn to triple 1.85. permit officer spawns. basically the same as existing \"perfect\" truesec. decrease max respawn time of a cleared spawn to 20 minutes (i believe it is currently 30 min or higher).5) \"good\" truesec 0.0 (roughly -0.7 to -1.0) - as above and eliminate spawns below 950k. significantly increase (triple or quadruple) the rate of hauler and faction spawns. decrease max respawn time from a cleared spawn to 15 minutes. i suggest increasing the chance of officer spawns, as well. since i've seen exactly one officer in the 3 years i've ratted, it's hard for me to say by how much. i would need information that isn't currently available, specifically how they currently spawn, whether or not it's true they are more common just after downtime (something which should be obviously be changed if accurate), how long they stay up, whether particular officers favor one region over another, what % that spawn are killed, etc."
"this is one part of the solution. nominally, macro ratters aka ninja farmers would stand to benefit the most from these changes by themselves. ideally, players should be able to improve the quality of space they hold. for that reason, i suggest the introduction of two new items:1) spacial vortex generator - a pos module, anchored at a control tower, that effectively improves the truesec of that system by -0.4 (basically, one level that i've described above). requires sov 2. fitting requirements - 750k grid and 4000 cpu (same as a jump bridge module, requires a large control tower).2) spacial vortex outpost upgrade - a permanent outpost upgrade that gives the system perfect truesec. cost in npc goods 2 to 5 billion isk.in addition to the truesec changes, this would give incentive to hold and improve space. suddenly, \"worthless\" regions like fade might see a population increase.what alliances stand to gain the most if these changes were made? pretty much everyone except goonswarm. the reason is simple. most of delve is broken. you can get triple 1.85m spawns in systems that arent supposed to generate them. you can get officer spawns in virtually every system, regardless of published truesec. we knew this years before we finally conquered the region, and its a big part of why we arent currently seeking to conquer other space. its why an alliance of > 5000 that formerly occupied 5 regions, fits comfortably into two. its also why you dont often see goon ratters in npc delve, despite its perfect truesec (as all pirate npc sov systems enjoy). if delve were fixed as a result of these changes, i would have no opposition to it.in my view, all of 0.0 and lowsec needs a big boost to bring it in line with the most stable, lucrative pve activity  high sec mission running. there are other, reasonable, ideas to fix what i see as a glaring discrepancy. some suggest just increasing rat bounties. others suggest they should drop tags which have to be sold at ded stations. i like this solution the best as it gives the most benefit to those that hold space and would seek to improve it.i have other ideas in mind to fix mining and 0.0/lowsec mission running, which i may or may not share in the coming week. suffice it to say that 0.0 mining is much worse today than when i began eve in 2006, as are 0.0 missions in general."
"sorry for the alt in the middle."
"generally support that idea, although i think triple bs spawns in every belt will net you too much isk, considering loot and salvage.pretty sure that this truesec rating needs to be looked at though. i noticed this since i live in great wildlands, and the ratting there is utter crap. i think there's only about 5 systems with a rating of -0.5 or better, like 10 that are better than -0.2 at all. sorry, no. not in a 0.0 region. it really feels like ccp forgot that gw is not an npc region like venal. without chaining mining veldspar in empire would get me more isk for sure."
"you'd have to chain a long while to achieve that. i don't suggest making every bs spawn a triple spawn, just eliminating cruiser spawns from 0.0, improving what the best spawns in systems will be, and eliminating lower value bs spawns from the best truesec systems.for those who don't rat - bs spawns can be single (most people clear these), double, and triple."
"i support it.atm, anything below 0.4 isnt of interest to most people. not enough profit to risk your ship."
"oh good god supported over and over and over, couldn't agree more. >.< i hate cruiser spawns"
"i support this. even in delve with broken truesec it can take hours and hours of pruning garbage frig/cruiser spawns (with multiple accounts) to get enough battleships in system to compete with high sec mission running. (then 15 minutes later some battlestars idiot comes through and breaks all your chains looking for faction spawns.) any 0.0 region without broken truesec must be completely worthless.i don't see why most of 0.0 should be less profitable for the average player than nearly risk free highsec space. i think these changes could go a long way to fixing that problem with a minimal amount of work from ccp."
"i'm gonna support this on the **** empire platform."
"supported. 0.0 (particularly poor truesec 0.0) really needs the buff.in regards to a system full of chained triple bs spawns, remember that you can still only kill them so fast, and you're unlikely to be using a multi-billion isk tricked out dps ship in 0.0 space."
"a goon? with a good idea for balancing? dang, i thought i just quit drinking. ah well, have some support!"
"how about a pos mod/station upgrade that can give the sythem more belts? or just give all 0.0 sytems a minimum of 10 belts."
"this is an excellent idea. its a very level-headed approach to acknowledge that many empire dwellers will never leave empire - just quit if pushed too hard."
"i like it a lot!"
"first of all props on a well cosntructed op. certainlly this seems to be the major issue in game balance right now, and probably ahs been for a while.but is a complex issue, and for real analysis we lack hard data, only tidbits have been released on economic reports and some posts by devs on the forum. for example how much weight have the drone regions in high end minerals wasn't well known until a 'recent' post in a md thread.there are a lot of factors on how much money you can make where, and how all that is balances (isk vs. loot etc.). but the basic premises of the thread are right, and things must be looked at, as it stands 0.0 can make you a lot of money but is not very casual friendlly and the average player can't comepte against lvl4 mission running, only the mroe hardcore players or those in advanced possitions (alliance leadership) or with nice regions (r64s) can have a very high income (and then a lot is used on expensive stuff like poses, capitals & crapp).i don't support the details, as only ccp can know & balance it, for example, if you increase a lot the officer/deadspace spawns the items would decrease their value in the market.but it's time for them to takle this issue at once, as is the most pressing one. hence i support the thread for bringing discussion with ccp. and i hope this is tied to the incoming sov changes someway or an other."
"a bump of supportalso, make it so you can expand the eve program window to fit the screen."
"yes, please. those dual output on the graphics cards are there for a reason... which is not only extending the desktop."
"i too thought that u would have 3 tiers of rigs with increasing bonusses at increased cost (making it actually worthwile to rig t1 frigs/cruisers with cheap rigs). and i even thought that idea was a bit silly, but a lot better (depending ofcourse on the quality difference between the rigs).and yes, if the salvage drops don't change drastically, bs sized rigs will reach ridiculous levels.supported"
"not supported. your desire for \"choice\" does not outweigh the commensurate boost to sub-battleship pvp. moreover, reducing the barriers for entry into pvp for new players and empire carebears is nothing but a plus."
"new players don't desire frigate and cruiser sized warfare at t1 levels. it's merely a bridge to getting to better things. most new players are in a battlecruiser in 3 weeks and a battleship in 5. i don't consider 3-5 weeks of gameplay justifiable for a complete change to the system. there is and very well should be a graduated learning curve in this game. learn the basics, then expand. you guys seem to want everyting thrown on the new guys at once. and that's not a practical choice. all it will do is overwhelm them with even more skills that they'll consider \"necessary\" and probably give them yet another reason to leave. entry to pvp is to use what you can and learn. that way, the more you add to it later, the bigger the bonus to coincide with your training. rigs fall under an optional tag atm. making them so cheap that they're mandatory is not a good option for newer players who are already overwhelmed with other task. i mean, how do you even gauge a draback to a ship if you've never had time to experience the options available in the first place without those drawbacks?"
"pay no attention to the people who deal with the markets on a daily basis.assuming drop rates stay the same, this will do nothing but bottom prices out of nearly every single salvage part out there.hell every mission runniner and industrialist should be screaming for joy, cargo expander's, cccs and a few of the other carebear heavy rigs are going to be next to nothing here soon."
"this thread is a more in depth and less \"whiney\" look at the thread by vuk lau (located here) - the revised version is aiming to be a bit more constructive and meaningful, as was mentioned/recommended by lavista vista.tl;dr version of prior thread (in bps):gm team has lack of knowledge regarding game-mechanicslow-level gm's are unprofessional and usually only warrant an escalation to a more senior gm to solve the issuegeneral consensus that gm team is not reading petitions / annoying at \"cut+paste\" type answers, mostly regarding the \"logs show nothing\" type answerfeeling that gm team is corrupt/incompetent due to issues such as gm's being biased / making decisions along the bobr name change issuedisorganization of gm team, especially regarding the \"reimbursement policy\" or lack thereofthe long time it takes for petitions to get answeredplayers loss of trust in the support/gm systemno consequence to players abusing the petition system!(i think the rest of the points raised are reiterations of the above issues, but please post if you feel i missed something)suggested solutions:revisiting the gm hiring policy, including a test (?) for game mechanics knowledgeincreasing gm count in order to reduce stress on each gm, so we get the feeling of being answered by real humans and not a c+p machinecreation of a new method to monitor game mechanics in which logs actually mean something and not just an \"go-away\" gm answercreation of a public rules and regulations regarding gm do's and dont's, specifically reimbursement.house cleanup by ia department (or creation of one if it doesn't exist) and clearing up all the \"rotten apples\" . although there is no public t20 yet, i doubt the gm department is fully clean.(again, ill add suggestions as they come from players).as a general note, ccp has two main issues at hand atm: lack of a working support for their gametotal loss of trust in said support system, to the point of which people saying \"don't petition it, it won't make a difference anyhow\".imo, issue #2 is the more serious of the two, since it foreshadows lack of belief in the developers and will lead to people quitting/finding a way to even out the playing field in illegitimate means.also, as a side note, i believe that the lack of response from ccp regarding any issues (be it this forum, or the rebalacing issues a bit back, or 101 other things) is concerning. i'm starting to feel (and many with me) that ccp is just bsing caring about our opinions, and is just doing it to control the public annoyance at certain issues in a closed space. so please ccp, get a dev/mod/wtv to respond to the threads - if we (the players) put the time and effort to write and post on those threads, you can at least take the time to formulate an answer. this will allow us regain some of the trust we've lost in the system.p.seven though it's 99% vuk alts, the thread linked above had 360 supports, which imo indicates clearly how much this is an issue to the community."
"supporting this one as well."
"this is a better rework.one thing i would like to add is something that could help the gms, rather than just criticise them:specifically, i am talking about penalties for players abusing the petition system."
"it seems the first (maybe even second) gm is actually an faq bot.had that same person mysteriously know about issues then not know about them on other occasions."
"supportin dis also."
"sound like a good idea. how would you go about this though? x time between petitions?rework the petition system so the gms can notice an abnormal number of petitions from one person / regarding an issue? (could be useful if many people are reporting an isk buyer, and i doubt a system like that is in place) and what about punishments? complete x days ban from petitioning? warning?and also, how would you determine if someone is abusing the system/ what does it mean to abuse it? (guess if they publish a public rules+regs that would be there)."
"snatch and grab from home topic:"
"awesome stuff moon dogg, i'll organize it in the op later to condense all the ideas."
"noperhaps some more hard fast guidelines need to be in place, especially with regards to reimbursement (which should all be but cut out except in the most extreme cases at this point), but for the most part petitions get answered within a timely manner relevant to their importance.i realize x issue might be an issue to you now, but that is slightly less lower on the service list than say, someone who cannot log in because toon is stuck in limbo."
"supported"
"i'm pretty sure that if only 10% of the playerbase would think before posting or writing a petition the load on the customer support would go down by quite a lot.i'm also quite sure that if another 10% of the playerbase would stop writing silly petitions out of a wierd sense of vengeance for refused reimbursements of the past the load on customer support would go down by quite a lot.still, i'm also quite sure that a new gm bible (not just based on commonalities but on scenario policies) and a few specialisation routing routines would assist quite dearly in providing a flexible but sound foundation for scripting support interactions.either way, customer support has grown with eve over the past years, and while severe and sometimes intentional screwups have been made ccp has always made the effort to grow with their own game. eve is not a product which has had a smooth growth path, it has had and always will evolve through (sometimes painful) growth spurts. attending to that on a support level is a continuous game of catching up with a racing train, on foot.people only friggin whine about horrible petitions and responses. nobody hardly ever says \"wow cool\" or \"thanks\" on the forums, so the picture people see is rather biased to negativity. keep that in mind please.heck, once upon a time long ago an array of mine swallowed a mothership in build. months after the petitioned was opened it had still not gotten anywhere, and ultimately the case was not resolved to satisfaction. does that mean i have to write off the entirety of customer support? no. i can recall quite a bunch of other cases over the years where i've pretty much lit candles to thank for the effort the gm's made."
"i think that this is a vast improvement. good job sir!only other thing i could ask for is that maybe the general tone is more of a \"this is what a part of the community seems to think. maybe this is something that could be considered\". i totally agree with most of it from my experience. but it's all about approaching it in a way where it's not a direct attack on the gm team.but very nice job otherwise."
"if you have seen idiocracy... gm support on eve is similar to when joe bauers (luke wilson) goes to the hospital and the lady is doing this to figure out what he's complainin about."
"better yep"
"yup good one. thanks for this. sadly everytime i started writing this issue i wanted to explode. the version i posted is like mk10. there are couple of more constructive ones but they were also more emo, so i had to post something to meet the deadline.anyway good job, there is couple of more things i could add, but u summed it prety well.thank you one more time, to you aswell to everyone else who added constructive posts."
"yes."
"oh dear god yes."
"ow yes, yes yes yes!"
"i had been using the \"contract to self\" workaround so far. this sounds better.supported. while we are add it. add damage status to the modules/ship."
"supported"
"so obvious, why wasn't this suggested before :d"
"yeppers"
"bump - can't allow this to die"
"projectiles obviously need some love, both of them.falloff for the acsgod knows what for the artilleryincrease the speed/agility on the tempest to make it the most agile bs by a decent margin and i think it'll be fine.i'd post some pretty numbers and graphs and laser maelstroms but i have many many times before. for references go to eve-search.com and search my name along with projectiles or minmatar.supported regardless"
"minmatar battleships *need* help."
"ccp there have been numerous threads with many great ideas to buff mini weapons systems and some of the ships (and it is agreed that they need something)...i suggest you listen to them."
"supported."
"damm i had forgotten to put my thumbs up on my first reply."
"to bad this will be swept under the rug again."
"supporting this.increase dps(by giving a small damage boost, considerably lower reload time and boost ammo capacity)+range+tracking of large projectiles, and give the tempest a slight hp buff(more duct tape).no for more skills. minmatar have enough training to do already."
"i didn't see this earlier, but i have to disagree with the idea that \"boosting (fixing) projectiles makes all turrets the same.\"projectiles don't need the dps of blasters, the range of lasers or rails, or anything like that. what projectiles need is a zone of superiority. as it stands, there is no range (except close to 2x falloff, where you do pathetic damage), where projectile weapons become the best option among all turrets.for instance, if you set up a damage chart for the short range weapons, you would ideally see three hills. blasters should have unmatched damage at close range, acs should do more damage than lasers at blasters optimal + falloff, and lasers should start outdamaging acs before ac optimal + falloff. three weapons, three curves, three zones of superiority. sounds balanced right?instead, currently blasters have the highest damage within their short optimal, acs have to be past ac optimal + falloff to outdamage them, and lasers outdamage acs at all effective ranges. there are issues with blaster tracking that have to be fixed, but that isn't the point of this thread.three weapons, two zones of superiority (and the blaster zone is very, very tight). that, to me, is not balance or diversity. and that isn't even bringing up beams vs rail vs artillery.but that digresses from the other point of this thread, which is that the tempest needs work. even if ccp fixed large projectiles, the tempest would pale in comparison to the maelstrom or the typhoon. a ship with 'utility slots' is a thing of the past, when ecm could be good on any ship, when nossing was overpowered, when ships had less hp. those things were all changed for good reasons, but the tempest is still a relic. it needs a new role, and i trust ccp to find one for it.edit: thumb up."
"currenty missioning income is pretty high for a empire job. highest fixed income u can get from carebearing. its not that i want to see that nerfed its that i want to see other things boosted. unlucky those things come togheter. currently atleast 40% of the high end ore comes from refined mission loot (there was a post up saying that a few months ago). i wonder why mining veldspar in emp is still more profitable than mining high ends in dangerous 0.0. removing loot will boost high end ore prices and make 0.0 mining profitable.it would boost 0.0 ratting aswell, meta items would be more worth in price and there would be a clear line vs meta 1 and other meta level items, items could also be refined for mineral prices. manufacturing would become more populair again. industry would get a general boost and traders can profit from the meta price differation, there is only 1 downside, this would mess up eve as it is now, and will make alot of carebears agrydiscuss"
"remove meta 0 drops entirely, replace meta 1-4 drops with bpcs.minerals should come from miners tbh."
"oh for crying out loud.can't you people give it a rest?no for the 1000th time."
"expanding on this:i agree with the idea that minerals should come from miners. (waitaminnit, i'm agreeing with malcanis.) i would support a well thought out change that removed meta 0 drops (seriously? what am i going to do with 50 mining laser i's?), dropped bpc's for meta 1-4, and still dropped (where applicable) anything with a higher meta level and the faction implants that drop.if anything, this would see the demand for minerals rise (though probably not by much) and the supply dwindle some as well, which would help rebalance the mineral prices.if someone wanted to write that up as a proposal, i'd give it my thumb."
"actually, at least last week, mining plagioclaise was more profitable than veldspar from a strictly refine and sell standpoint. the reason you see so many people still mining veldspar is because:they're like me, and they'll mine anything that sits in one place long enough.they need the tritanium for something (also like me - i burn through it to the tune of 10 - 15 million units a week, and i'm small time).they're stockpiling in the hope that tritanium prices go back up.they're too stupid to realize the market in eve is as fluid as a real economy because it is a real economy.edit to add some space in the wall of text."
"that's an illusion.the economy is setup as game.take reprocessing for example... any alt can reprocess stuff near perfectly in empire."
"you forgot to mention that any alt \"with skills\" can reprocess stuff near perfectly \"provided they have skills and no taxes\" in empire.with no skills they don't get perfect reprocessing... they get a percentage of the whole wasted due to waste and a chunk of it taken out for taxes. everyone knows this.that is not a bloody illusion... the market is fluid because its player controlled."
"it follows the same rules, supply and demand.this is a long oustanding issue, evidence by the fact that when loot stopped coming into the game in the same volume here in the last few months we saw a massive spike in mex prices.loot is a big part of the eve mineral economy."
"let me clarify:the eve economy is a close approximation of a real economy given that it actually does run on real life market principles like supply and demand, with very little tweaking by ccp. yes, it is a game economy, which is why we have asteroids that respawn, and things like skill books seeded into the market because there are limits imposed by the game world. but by and large, it behaves in much the same manner as a real world economy."
"ccp emloy thier own market analyst because eve's economy/market is that realistic. actually not sure if they actually employ the guy...he might have been from a college, but he was analysing the data and wat not."
"there, fixed it for you and bolded the parts that needed fixing. btw, most mission runners that reprocess their loot usually use the materials to manufacture ships for pvp."
"he hasn't produced hardly anything that someone in the market discussion forum hasn't already known for quite some time.and this is from someone who has access to information beyond the player's grasp"
"nail on the head drake."
"supported - also any boosters currently active on the podded player too would be nice."
"you sir, are wrong."
"1) no matter what you change the pattern to, it will always be easier to toggle visibility on/off.2) i would support the keyboard shortcuts here. otherwise...not really. if the arrows didn't provide the ability to move a probe on a specific axis it'd be impossible. what you're explaining is already possible by selecting a side of a probe. i don't know about others, but it's really hard to navigate probes using that method...3) more confirmation signs are never a bad thing =]"
"indeed these are good.if not addressed, keeping a set distance ratio between the drones when resizing their range would also be great, thus reducing their au radius maintains the same overlap in the probe cluster. i don't see this being a major change and would reduce tedium for all."
"alternatively, have the scan button be the only one on the right side, everything else is clustered on the left."
"yeah there's a few pesky things i don't like about probing that i'm having to get around... like the black fog/spot dictating the zero axis (if you call it that)"
"did someone mention the \"destroy probes\" button... which i don't believe anyone has ever been inclined to press since probes became recoverable.how about using the same amount of code to create that button instead get retyped to become a \"reconnect to drones\" button instead?"
"apologies if this is discussed somewhere in here already, looked and could not find it.proposal: use \"eminent domain\"-style policy and exchange all existing t2 bpos for some version of \"fair market value\".the existance of t2 bpos make invention pretty much worthless, except for small ephemeral niches. i'm not going to go on and on with details to convince anyone, it's really pretty self-evident to anyone who's ever applied a spreadsheet to the issue."
"perhaps you should check the math on invention. it's far from worthless."
"actually invention makes t2 bpo's worthless as t2 bpo's only yield 20-40 mil profit more a week or so (due to no invention costs and other fees) and t2's take years to regain cost of t2 unless you've held since when t2's were sold on market.btw this is an alt your using right? please say right.btw is this a response to this thread?"
"i wonder how i'm getting rich by doing invetion though too much clueless people talking about this.i've a better suggestion: just ban from the game all the \"datacores, minerals, whatever, is free\" crew, they are more harmfull than all t2 bpo combined together."
"the math is simple - there is no way for invented bpc users to successfully compete with t2 bpos researched to 30,30. having the lottery for getting t2 bpos and then just ending it is one thing, but pretending invention makes up for it and leaving the bpos in circulation is quite another."
"so if with bpo's in circulation it is worthless to invent why not stop invention and invent something which there is not 2 bpo's ?"
"i am just getting into invention so i am just asking here . i have read the guides and done the math and it seems when it comes to ships t2 invention just does not pay . if i am wrong here i would like someone to explain but when i figure in the cost of the datacores and the chance of failure it seems t2 bpc's are barely better than breaking even and in some cases a flat out loss where i could make more isk selling the datacores . with almost 2 out of 3 chances failing it seem it could be easy to get burnt by an unlucky string of failures if you are dealing in smaller numbers . am i figuring something wrong here ? and yes i am figuring all level 5 skills and a decryptor into the chance calculator . now ammo seems to be a different situation i am only talking ships here ."
"sure, i never said t2 bpos were a great deal to buy, else i'd just go buy one. but they remain out there depressing prices, independent of how much was paid for them. i have no speculation on how many have changed hands vs. still remaining in hands of lottery winners.and re: datacores, etc. being \"free\" - of course they're not, that's why 4 mill-ish for a t2 frig bpc is about break-even.re: being clueless - i don't mind being proven clueless and thus being educated, just callin' it like i see it.and i admit to possibly just being a little bitter about missing the lottery... :)"
"datacores are free same as decryptors. cores are given out by r&d agents and decryptors are found in exploration sites."
"datacores regardless of how they were obtained have a value . if the value of those materials consumed in the invention process is equal to or greater than the the value of the bpc that you might get figuring in the chance of failure then the invention process it's self is not profitable . r&d may be profitable and the manufacture of the ship may be profitable but those are separate ventures that need to be calculated separately if we are talking strictly about the profitability of inventing . when considering investing in skills for invention that is how you must calculate it in my opinion . the people here that are claiming to be making large amounts of isk by inventing are you not figuring the value of the invention materials into the equation ?"
"and before the thread has been successfully derailed into an \"x has value regardless of how you obtained it\" thread, let's go back to the topic at hand."
"of course they have a value, never said they didn't but the fact still remains they are given out free by r&d agents"
"yes, thanks. let's try to reframe this without worrying about where these things come from in the 1st place.perhaps the thing here is that i am focusing on small/mid-sized ships rather than various modules or ammo, but building frigs or cruisers from invented bpcs just really seems to be a loser relative to selling off the datacores and building materials required. i.e. if you have all the datacores and materials needed invent and build a t2 cruiser or frig, you are better off just selling them than actually inventing and building the item. that just seems lame, to me."
"i'm gettign rich at doing invention, but forget about ships (mostlly, there are some which make money if you know where to market them, no i'm not telling you which and where).why ships don't break even? cause there are too stupid people who thinks 'stuff is free' and first thing they will invent is ships. this is not a derail, this is the real issue, and you can't hardcore :intelligence: on people. t2 bpos can't cover 0.05% of market volume in any decent (aka used) item, these are a nonissue. if you are so mad about them go buy one yourself, let's see when you break even.go remove t2 bpos and tell these who bought one for docens of billiosn to gtfo, there is no such thing as \"fair market value\" for such things, the sceew would be enormous. just get over it, eventually most t2 bpos will be out of play, each time a \"bitter vet\" which owns one quits the game one is practically removed from the game, a lot have allready.seriouslly this is mroe trouble than anything else. there are plenty of threads in the science & industry and md subforums discussing this, go there for more detailed answers if you want."
"oh please not again. don't blame bpo owners for your own failed market research. i am getting rich with invention.oh and well not supported."
"honestly, that's about what i was expecting. so, sorry again if nothing new.hm, the claim that \"t2 bpos cannot account for .05% of the volume\" seems flatly wrong, t2 ship volume is not that high. however, it is true that i did not consider that so many ppl might be clueless enough about \"opportunity cost\" to be not accurately accounting their costs when pricing t2 ships... functioning market models do require the actors to be semi-intelligent i suppose.i would of course never be so prsumptious as to ask \"where\" or \"what\" on what ppl are producing, but i *am* curious about an order-of-magnitude of what \"getting rich on invention\" means - ballpark isk / weeks. just the number of 0s will do :)"
"few bills per month?"
"rich is subjective, but you can earn more beat the billion per month mark (net profit) with a single char with some effort. man i know you are angry because you didn't win one of these free t2 bpos, \"been there, done that\". you could be earning more? probably...... but negative retroactive changes are allways a bad idea, and have to be avoided if possible, which is the case.i haven't run the numbers but i'm sure bpos can't cover much of the daily trade volume on any item, including t2 ships, have you seen the ****load of ships that are sold daily?"
"first, can you show unequivically (sp?) that the existence of t2 bpos have an effect on the economy of eve, or that their use in producing t2 stuffs have a significant impact on eve's economy? personally i don't see how they can, so it sounds just like a \"well if i can't have one, nobody should!\" argument. fail.second, the existence of t2 bpos have zero impact on my invention of the stuff i like inventing and selling. so those with the bpo make more isk in profit, big deal. i don't sell stuff that is already heavily on the market, and i don't sell if the profit margins are too low. so big freakin' deal. fail.third, for the poster who posted the \"this is an alt posting, isn't it?\" crap, what do you care? every friggin' toon is an alt, so please kindly stfu."
"supporting this."
"no, train learning and get some decent implantslast thing we need is every one thats able to collect the isk for a plex monthly to start using this to get 100% training bonuses, and if new players had enough money in rl they could just keep buying plexes from ccp to turn into 100% training bonuses so within 2 months of eve theyd be in a half decent fit bs"
"one of the main things i love about this game is that mostly everyone is on the same playing feild no matter how much cash you have this is just going to turn it into another game where all the rich basterds get to flash there cash to overtake the genuine hard working playerbase]not supported"
"not supported!p.sexpect a wardec for being a wow head"
"for the second time today i find myself agreeing with melcanis, who has more or less been my arch-nemesis in the insurance thread.but i do. this idea is a bad one. don't get me wrong, like a lot of the other people here, i would love to train skills faster. but this isn't the way to go about it."
"i say if someone managed to steal your unanchored pos and got away with it, they're awesome. and you fail lol"
"or if in hisec... get a corpmate or friend to sit there with an insured gank bs to kill anyone who tries to snag your tower.you have friends right?"
"they make it take forever to anchor a tower becouse of pvp. which i can understand.but anyone in any old hauler can fly on up to a pos while anchoring and put it in their hold and fly off, and if you shoot them, concord blows you out of the sky, that's just sad."
"thanks for the well thought out reply there mate, you must be a real valued member of your corp.anyway, the real point is, not that it was stolen, but that it should be flaggable. otherwise you could sit there with a whole fleet of bs's but if someone tries to steal it and you shoot them, you are the criminal and get concorded... that is just plain wrong.i understand piracy, my main is a pirate, and a very successful one, so i'm not an emobear, just find the idea that a major crime such as stealing what can potentially be worth over a billion isk is absolutley seen as not a crime..."
"that was already touch and go before ccp introduced t2 indies .. i remember scooping up towers and sometimes that got a bit hairy when the owner had a suicider ready, but generally speaking it was still easy to get away with it. and alive.then t2 indies came, and scooping up someone's unanchoring pos became a matter of the fastest click really. come in, stick with it, and sometimes have a guy extra in a bumper ship alongside.as much as i enjoy having a go at things like this, and as much as i look forward to a resolution on the anchored pos parks in high sec floating away from their moons i have to admit that ultimately a guy who owns a pos has no real chance at all.keep in mind t2 indies are not the only method at our disposal, and now that they can nicely use a covert ops cloak it's even easier what's the pos owner gonna do? bump us? suicide us? do the math on how many suiciders it would take to cover a medium pos and bumping is no longer what it used to be damn i miss the days of tiki and his bumpageddon so, yeah. i'd love to take the stand of the l33t ganker who is so ebil that he griefs just by looking at a post, but eve does have an eye for risk versus reward. as a pos thief the only risk i face is that of not clicking fast enough. the reward is obvious. as much as i dislike it, i cannot deny that there is a point in the reasoning for criminal flagging. without risk, there's something not right under eve's fundamental principles. i'm not saying it is wrong, but it ain't right either."
"nothing to add but my support"
"many of those things will be added at the same time as the mechanics to support them get added - for example, you can find proposals for \"comet mining\" floating around occasionally. when that gets implemented, they'll add comets. if you want other astronomical features, come up with game mechanics to justify them, like they did in wormholes. there's a limit on the amount of pure eye candy they can add, and they prefer to focus it on things like ships for obvious reasons."
"ok i have one question for you: why do you distinguish between \"pvpers\" and \"carebears\"....carebearing means to avoid as much risk as possible...personlally i think: people warping into mission areas to kill the mission runner, people suicideganking in highsec (due to insurance) pirates campig lowsec gates etc...are carebears, too [garbage collectors ie people salvaging the wrecks someone else produced are carebears, as well]where is the risk in klling a mission runner? or killing a hauler if you get 90% of your ship reimbursed by insurance? or in camping a gate with a few people and killing everything that comes through? or salvaging in another ones mission in high sec?no risk there either so....dont be too strict about \"pvpers =/= carebears\" because that isn't true....most pvpers and 'pirates' are worse carebears who would never want to risk much. think twice about concord: if you can beat them/tank them suicide gankers would have even less risk being able to kill more and afterwards getting back the loss form insurance again.....the pvp-carebear vs pve_carebear situation must be assessed carefully.i am all for more risk but then: for everyone, riskfre pvp is silly....make pvp-fits viable for pve and you got some basis on which a mission runner can defend himself against pvp-carebears but until then they are dead meat if catched and their only choice is to escape...[sarcasm]lots of risk for the pvper ofc...[/sarcasm]"
"ccp decided that crime in highsec should be punishable by having the offenders ship explode. how to make that happen is just one of two options; the ship instantly self destruct or a slightly more rp friendly version of a police force (concord) showing up and then destroy you.and that's all there is to it and hence why trying to do anything against concord is futile. including suggesting changes."
"they don't need titans. one of the concord frigates has 5 ddd's mounted on it."
"ccp...petitions,,, heck i'm ready to petition the petitions, oh wait did that already to"
"agree!"
"tbh, the best response ((sarcasm)) i've ever had from a gm on a petition is that a plex can escalate to only let you be..please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"right on!"
"they could save themselves a lot of workload by not responding asking for information contained in the original petition aka read the friggen thing. training/game experience should also be stressed much more strongly in the orientation/hiring phase because many gm's clearly do not grasp basic game mechanics.and i've even had a petition *time out* due to lack of gm response after they sent me an automated one asking for info contained in original. that's like, weeks without it being looked at.tl;dr supported."
"gms r pros"
"do you think this thread might indicate a problem?be a good idea to fix this before much else ccp. a support crash could well equal a subscription crash."
"think wow gm's will take care of eve-related stuffz, they're half competent"
"they actually have quite a decent training system in-place for gms right? remember seeing something about their support on tv."
"signed"
"important link. nuff' said."
"let us not forget multiple gm not knowing pos sov mechanics when an issue was petitioned by wi. another good example of gm lacking basic knowledge there."
"awhile back we had an obvious glitch in the game where a pos moved from one moon to another moon, and was inside another pos. neither pos could be targeted. should someone have wanted to come along and siege that system, we would have been petitioned for an exploit.it took them *3 weeks* to even respond to my petition about it. after about 2 weeks i filed a stuck petition, and a gm, who was actually competent, came in and destroyed the bugged pos for us. it only took 5 minutes.the sheer incompetence in most of the gm staff is absolutely astounding. only *1* gm has ever been useful, helpful, and knowledgable, and i breathe a huge sigh of relief when they wind up answering my petitions.something really needs to be done about this. this is more important than the sov overhaul, or even fixing my mothership."
"i just read through the previous pages, and lamented the lack of constructive suggestions. then i saw that lavista vista had the same view. so, without further ado, lets think about what can be done to improve things for the front-line gm.first, let me say that - despite me being a 2006 character - i lack the indepth knowledge of eve mechanics to ever serve as a gm. so if i say something stupid here, i blame that :)1) gm training courses on game-specific areas. for example: a. pvp b. industry/mining c. pos d. sovereignty, corporations & alliances e. factional warfare f. wormholes g. missions/complexes h. skills i. standings j. reimbursement k. policies & rules l. billing & account m. marketsthe idea being that a front-line gm candidate would have to take one or more of courses like the ones listed above. maybe they are a week in length, maybe less (3 days?). content is prepared by senior gms, and is designed around what a front-liner should know to head off a lot of the common incoming petitions for that subject area. to get into that class, a person would have to demonstrate appropriate knowledge on that subject.candidates could take more than one course, and - provided they pass a test - would then receive petitions based on what areas they have been deemed competent in. ccp would then have a fair idea of how many gms were in each area, and could up the number of gms in areas where there are heavier petition loads.one of the things that this doesn't take into account is how the petitions are distributed (which i assume is automated).2) stress the in-game help channel.we have one of these? i had forgotten or wasn't really aware. is it staffed by competent, ccp-trained individuals, or is this a place populated by well-meaning (or not?) pod pilots who may or may not be knowledgeable in the game?regardless, if the help channel is meant to be a true first line to head off needless or simple-to-resolve petitions, then ccp needs to make sure that it is populated by people that can answer questions correctly and that the pilot base is aware of it. promo the help channel more in news postings, messages above the login area, etc.3) don't file petitions on minor isues and gameplay questions.fine. ccp should provide an outline of what those things are.4) submitting the petition - give us a template.yes, we all know that \"ze logs, they show notheenk\". what information will a gm need? should there be fields created in the petition that, if left unfilled, will not allow the petition to be filed? will that just result in pilots putting garbage into the field so their narratives gets submitted - possibly. probably :) but if we know what basic things they need to know, many of us will provide them. we want our petitions to succeed, afterall.5) courtesy in the petition process.i am talking about the language used by the submitting pilot here, not the gm responses. i have, in my petitions, never failed to use polite language to frame my problem and ask for assistance. remember, it isn't their fault that the issue affecting you occured, and you want them to start their interaction with you on a positive note, rather than on a negative one resulting from language that attacks or deingrates the gm and/or ccp.(continued on next post)"
"(continued from my last post)6) gm incentivesi am speaking from ignorance here, so bear with me. is there any type of incentive program in place for gms? for example, if you clear 80% of the petitons assigned to you in a quarter without bumping up to a more senior gm, and with a positive satisfaction rating, then that person gets a plex from ccp. or a ship model. or maybe a snazzy t-shirt! i have to assume that ccp has mechanisms in place to gather customer satisfaction data related to petitions, so develop a metric that, if met by gms, rewards them for their hard work.i used to do work for wizards of the coast (and tsr, inc. before them), and when we submitted our project, the reward was x dollars in dungeons & dragons product. if i look at the amount of time i put into the projects i did for them, and compared them to the dollar value of the product i received, then my hourly wage was probably in the $2/hour range, but i can tell you that i was happy as could be in getting that package full of d&d stuff!7) gm consequencesif you provide incentives for positive results, there must be consequences for those that aren't getting them. that might mean a review of gm responses to see if it is a matter of professionalism, a lack of knowledge, failure to fully read and understand the petition, etc. or maybe it is just that the player didn't get their way and did't rate the gm well as punishment.bottom line: institute a review process based on data collected from petitioners. poor performance is either corrected, results in removal from the category of petition where the performance is lacking, or results in termination from the gm program.8) the dreaded \"english barrier\".english is how most of the business of eve is conducted, although a significant number of pilots don't speak it. i realize there are options out there (the german support option, for example), but for many, submitting a petition in understandable english is dificult at best. i worry that being unable to clearly impart what the issue is on the player's behalf might result in petitions that are very difficult to address and close positively on the gms behalf.i don't have any suggestion on how to address this, but i think it is worth the mention.these are just some ideas that i had floating around regarding the subject. hopefully the csm can take these, if they are worthwhile, or develop their own suggestions that would help to improve the customer service side of the game."
"every time i file a petition, i get the same gm, and it feels like im talking to a robot who doesnt even read my petition, but just copies and pastes whatever fits best.i fully agree that low level gm's need more training."
"some great points moondog i support the idea of better training gm's, but i'm sure theres already some sort of training scheme in place whether its all inclusive enough or effective enough may be whats in question here. as that is an internal ccp matter i dont know what kind of effect this would have on them but i think theyd start to get the hint after 12 pages and im sure the posts arent done stacking up"
"strongly agree with moondog"
"personaly i dont have a that bad experience with the subject. however i hear a lot of friends in huge fleet fight complain about server crashed or lag and then the weird stuff happens.sometimes i want to petition a loss, but then i think, its only a ship, i'll use a new one and move on. (smaller ships and not capitals)with more expensive ships, in bigger battles things are different and wars are decided on wrong gm care.so improvement is always welcome. thats why i support this subject.i also have an advice for vuk! summarize the problem from time to time and add all the proposed soltutions or idea's. this way ccp will get a clear overview of options they have. lets help them instead of only complain and whine."
"/signed.conflicting definitions of sovereignity mechanics are a nightmare to sort out when you get different answers to differing petitions. not confidence building."
"."
"support this"
"agree, from personal experience i have been given incorrect information numerous times relating to serious game play mechanics and rules effecting not only myself but specifically region wide sov mechanics."
"just a brief anecdote: i recently posted a petition re: a new station that i was putting up. fairly simple question, come to find out, but the response i received from a gm was so far off target as to make me think he/she didn't even read the petition. the answer had absolutely zero to do with what i asked. i've decided not to petition anything anymore. when i do get an answer, i just can't trust it.i support real training for gms, and installation of gms that only play the game regularly and have substantial experience in the area they are supporting (that includes my support for using real developers as gms, and not just \"support\" guys)."
"lar doesn't require a second player, and the rep effect of a lrar can be removed by jamming."
"try to solo with rr and see how op it is."
"by design.balanced.exactly how it should be."
"considering i haven't played much (if at all) in the past two weeks, and i despise station games on top of that, i could safely say that isn't the case. furthermore, i could care less what happens to peoples' ships when they don't follow the rules of engagement.what degree am i suggesting? i don't recall suggesting anything except there was no reason to use a local rep when rr is involved. and i'm not thinking local rep needs a boost in effectiveness (maybe a shorter interval, but nothing more), but rr does need a nerf. how big the nerf would have to be i cannot say.as for jamming, i don't think it's that much of an issue if the ships aren't significantly outnumbered. running out of cap or being neuted is far more likely, and hits local rep harder than remote rep because of the high activation cost. oh, and rr doesn't require 2300 powergrid. it's hard to reap the benefits of a lar when you can't fit one.but it looks like nobody but me sees the validity of my concerns, so apparently everyone likes tedious, boring, predictable bs blobs... that, or people don't want to lose their security blanket."
"my mistake- i thought you were involved in the priv blob that came after me :)contrary to what you seem to be arguing, i think that rr adds quite a bit of unpredictability to engagements- everything in eve has a viable counter- and factoring in whether someone will bring rr in their fleet and/or how much they'll bring set up in what way (cap boosters vs rechargers, tanked, or max rr etc) makes setting up your fleet a lot more exciting. for instance, my corporation and friends often mess around in jita looking for fights, and frequently fight people who use multiple remote reppers to help them kill us. on some occasions, we bring ecm to jam out the rr, on others, we fit to gank through their rr, occasionally we neut, and sometimes, we shoot the repper. take away rr and you do a lot more than just boost local rep- you take away a lot of variety, and one of the main tactics that small gangs can use to fight larger blobs."
"remote reps in large fleets are prevalent simply because you can focus a significant amount of repair on one ship to counter very high incoming damage, far more than is possible with a local rep. particularly important when working on a gunned pos at close range for example.the natural counter to this is ewar and consequent breaking of the collective spider tank. added to this vulnerablity is the increased complexity of managing broadcasts and general fleet skill required to coordiante the remote reps effectively."
"not supported, imo systems is well balanced today. if you want to solo pvp i suggest you look at garmons' movies."
"this is why rrs already have an inherent advantage. they don't need ridiculously low fitting requirements to be competitive with local reps."
"privateers? solo pvp? i think they love stations too much for that."
"wait, privateers complaining about remote reps?pot, meet kettle."
"i'm so glad i recently joined privateers for roaming hisec wars, and with the added bonus of nobody taking me seriously .my main problem is with the amount of local performance vs remote performance in relation to the power required to utilize such performance. in every other system, there is a simple rule; the more powerful the module, the more power must be dedicated to it. if rr is to fall into this category, one of the following conditions must be met.1) if rr is to remain more effective than a local rep, it must have higher fitting requirements than a local rep.or2) if rr is to remain with substantially less fitting requirements, it must also be substantially less effective than a local rep.that's all there is to it. the possible drawbacks of rr do not invalidate this.otherwise, what's to stop someone from rigging an rr into the internal of his ship and pointing the emitters at his armor plates? it would certainly be better than having a lar equipped."
"i am concerned about 2 issues, first of them is the fact that hyperion and maelstorm do not have a spesific purpose that would make them significantly better in any spesific area then a megathron and a tempest (acccordingly) let's look into spesifics.shield resistance bonus is usefull in 4 cases: passive tank, buffer tank, active tank and spider tank. in all those cases it is applied in full.shield boost bonus in grater by 50%, however it can be used only in one case: personal repair, and the only place where that is usefull is mission running. in pvp you use buffertanks most of the time. in sleeper ratting you use remote repairs. that means that the bonus is frequently rendered useless. i whant to propose changing the bonus, so it affects remote repairs as well, that makes ships with such bonus usefull for pvp and sleeper ratting as they can be used in remote reps, but there bonus is larger then resistance bonus as it cannot be used to umprove buffer tanking.it makes sence due to 3 resons:logical: armor repair and remote armor repair is same proses, subsistem that improves armor repair will improve remote reppers as well, it's same proses, no matter if nanites are repairing armor on this ship, or are sprayed on another ship and repair that ship's armor. gameplay: armor resistance is usefull in 3 instances: buffer tanking, active tanking, spider tankingwith proposed changes armor repair bonus will be usefull in 2 instances: active tanking and remote repair, 3:2=1.5, that is why bonus is 50% larger. additionally, currently maelstorm and hyperion lack some love, this will seperate there use from that of a tempest and megathron, and make them worth there heavy price tag."
"oh and why only gallente and minmatar?caldari/amarr got ships with rep bonus aswell."
"you lost my support right there./me thumbs down"
"nothis would defeat the whole random chaos of w-space was intended to be."
"please tell me this is a troll."
"big hell no. this would be the start of the complete occupation of w-space by alliances. we have enough gridlock in old 0.0, we don't need it in wormholes."
"nowormholes are about discovery and are in a constant flux. this would just make w-space another boring fixed location."
"you have 0.0 for that. and if you can't access 0.0 to try it, because any intrusion will result in a jumpbridged fleet from two regions away to wipe you out, then you're starting to understand why this isn't a good idea. :)"
"did it occur to you that w-space is uncharted and \"location unkown\" at best?without a fixed location and a fixed destination you can't possibly establish a jump gate system.so maybe you should spend a little more time thinking about the mechanics of the game and less about ease of use.i'm sure it would be great to link w-space with other bases but that would make it too easy and bigger alliances would overrun wormhole space (not that they couldn't anyway).let's not bust the damn up eh?"
"ditto"
"conquerable 0.0 and pos warfare is that way ->not supported."
"sorry but no."
"what he said. not supported."
"after x months of subscription a user gets assigned their own account manager.this account manager looks after their limited number of clients and ensures they are happy and continue to subscribe.reduce churn resulting from poor support.users can be assigned to account managers of different skill levels based on their needs.gms can look after the stupid stuff while account managers make sure people aren't left fighting bugs for weeks."
"give it a rest man. and use the assembly hall as intended, and not as a thinly disguised personal venting platform. this is not general discussion or caod.got burned? take it like a professional and make best use of the designated options. that does not include trying to throw imaginery weight around like a prototype of a wannabee lawyer."
"i dont think they will ever have a \"manager\" that will be able to deal with a high maintance hoe like you.just say, cause you sure seem like a whiney biotch based off of all your rants/whines/demands you have made in the assembly hall and jita park speakers corner."
"just asking for a better support system with closer/better relationships between users and support staff.take it personally all you like."
"you're the one who took things personal and exploded in such a bad display of behaviour"
"anything to add to the discussion?"
"yes, just four little things spring to mind:1. always count to 10 before going nuts. it will save you a lot of trouble, and it will prevent people from discarding you as the next caod alt who is not to be taken seriously ever.2. the perceived troubles of customer support in eve really is a knife which cuts on both ends. if you look at the amount of \"scream\" posts from players whining and *****ing like little uneducated kids one starts to wonder about how petitions are even used by players. in other words in a system where one side is battered by an extreme load generated by the other side you cannot just whine and ***** that one side sucks. you can't even say that the system sucks without realising that you the player are an equal contributor to the sucking of the system. at the same time nobody is in a position to make any decent judgment or even comment without knowing the ratios of success versus fail support cases and their corresponding timelines.please keep in mind that seeing the good side of things is rare, since we humans only ever say something about the bad side of things.3. account managers are always bad. they are the bane of customer relations, and create some of the worst possible structural problems in customer support, not to mention they are often an overly large part of the payroll simply through sheer numbers. what ratio to use? can you guarantee standards? can you vouch for clients to work along equally professional? can you afford a payroll with a 30% budget for account managers? crap, the challenges of management with the obsolete money sink of account managers in client support relations can go on for days on end.you use account management tiers for sales. for any post sales process it is only ever worth it in the prospect of growing sales, not perpetuating sales. one of the rules of enterprise level management, a level which ccp is rapidly approaching.4. and another simple case really, the risk of once again opening the door to social engineering outweights any imaginary benefit of person to person customer support relations. but hey, since you always scream maybe you are one of those who enjoys building close relations with people so they get to like you and cut you some slack here or there, or maybe give you a hint or tip."
"dr. \"whine\"smith....i suggest you take a couple months off before you have a heart attack... that or break your keyboard... (which may be a good thing for us)not supported."
"i was using wow's program as a example. with its ability to move programs from one screen to the other in windowed mode, and then expand it.eve does not have the ability, if you put it in window mode, you cannot expand the program window to fit the screen."
"there is already quite an extensive topic on adding true dual window support to the game:"
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"this issue could be rolled into this thread? ->"
"rolled into an 11 page thread moving at 5+ pages a day? no thanx.i'll just keep bumping this until i get a 2nd and 3rd copy & paste reply to the issue.i'll be waiting in the station for them to fix the issue.this can be a good example issue of how a simple request turns into weeks of waiting because of the copy & paste responses from gms."
"demand a senior gm and ask him to log into your account."
"they won't even reply anymore.i'm sitting here waiting with my hand over the unsubscribe button."
"figure i'll be here waiting docked for a few days..... think i can get a refund for the days i spent waiting for a gm to reply lol!"
"****ing ****s!"
"hmmmm i wonder how many months visa will chargeback when ccp doesn't provide service?"
"this thread needs a lock, op is simply using the place as a steam valve as opposed to constructively bringing an issue forward, arguing the case, providing relevant information, exploring alternatives ... etcetera.you know, use the assembly hall for what it was intended for. not a personal whining platform.yes, case sucks. petition is your support mechanisms. since this topic is a simple whine, take a pick from a number of existing and properly mapped topics to put attention on the matter. for example the thread on customer support in general, or the beforementioned topic on the voting issues, take a pick.just don't pollute this section as well k tnx. this is neither gd nor caod."
"i brought the issue forward constructively..... thing is ppl only respond to the loud stuff.i suggested that users have account managers instead of faceless gms.i think they're actually using a chat bot.... this doesn't seem like a real human, and the same person has responded in the past with knowledge of the issue now forgets that they know how the problem works....."
"have you looked at your own posts by any chance? let's be honest, you just ran into a problem in game, ran into a junior gm following his script, and instead of being a little professional and courteous (with the usual patience skill required) you just blow up. next you run to the forums, start typing wierd word and letter combinations, and expect personal assistance because you shout a lot.life will get a lot easier once you realise that people work better through professionalism, and not **** screaming alright.and now after exploding and making the assembly hall once more look like a personal *****ing game you try to spin it off as a normal means of handling problems.did your mother ever teach you to count to 10 before exploding? saves a lot of problems in life."
"let me post it in here too:"
"locked.ranting is not permitted on the forums."
"sure, but if i was losing the station i would:- dump all the minerals in space around the station so that they would become a hazard for navigation (damaging the ships every time you dock or undock) and would be almost unrecoverable (needing something like a gas harvesting ship and a lot of time);- detonate all the stuff i can't move away, doing it in the most damaging way possible; - went all the oxygen and water reserves so that the new owners need to replace them;- destroy all the computer and heavy machinery i can destroy.so that the new owner would get a almost useless wreck and probably would spend less time building a station from scratch than repairing the old station (that probably would be full of booby traps too). yes, after all that the offices would be freely available from the first second. could be a nice idea for the walk in station expansion."
"see assets, see tabs all items by region tab by constellation tab by system taband in *each* you can select the respective region, constellation and system. it was added months ago."
"yes, i missed it, ty. as usual, it was missing from the patch notes."
"this.edit: forgot to add the thumb."
"lil extra info, this only happens with 300+ items in a division.to reduce lag break up the large divisions and store some of the items in less active hangers."
"not really. ship cha loading can have quite the delay regardless of number of contents."
"that isn't always true. our own cha in our orca can take quite a while to show a division that only has a few items (i.e. less than 10) in it."
"meeting notes?"
"give us a chance to recover from vuk's webcam session."
"one of these days we're going to demand live video streaming, if you keep making us drool like that"
"not sure if troll..."
"dutch people don't troll."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.anyway its looking to be a _very_ full list of items that we're taking to iceland:"
"i request that the issue regarding minmatar large weapon systems (autocannons/artillery) and the ongoing issue with tempest battleship that has been made obsolete by various buffs and nerfs, most all of which negatively influencing the tempest's ability to operate in a pvp role.recent assembly hall threadrecent ships and modules threadrecent forums and ideas discussion threadlarge projectile/tempest forum - this was locked by ccp after 47 pages.anaylsis of training large projectilesthe issues with both of these has been neglected by ccp, and even by csm as has been shown by the information located in the assembly hall thread. it is long past time we restarted trying to get ccp to review the tempest and large projectile weapons."
"this thread is here for csm members to put items on the agenda. csm members only."
"i have always seen wis as: 1. tool for traders, corps and alliances. (talking about shops/offices you know the bureaucratic side of an corp/alliance)2. something else to look at for the science department.3. \"improved\" social interaction.personally, i spend allot of time docked doing things that got nothing to do with flying spaceships and after a while the f****** station interior is getting boring.and on a side note... looking at all the wis haters i notice there usually the pvp players whining about wis, well sorry guys, your not the only ones playing eve online.(oh yes, i also believe ccp should get it's priority's strait, chop the knot in the rope and say \"do it\" or never mention it again.)"
"use futura or fixedsys excelsiorthe former would look awesome and the latter would look horrible ui wise, but is the most readable font that we have for computers.perhaps allow us to pick our own font source for the chat (not the general ui).and for gods sake, don't even think about using arial or any of those fonts, they are all horrible."
"alright, warp to xi-oy2 gate... or is it x1-0y2? or xi-dy2?... goddamnit supported so muchfutura would really be awesome"
"nice, please"
"supported because the minnies love rockets too, only just not as much"
"bump, lets not let this issue go the way of the dodo."
"/agreed"
"i took my darn amp apart because eve killed one channel entirely one evening, in and out of game. sick of it. rollback if you can't fix it."
"eve uses the fmod ex sound engine:"
"it's painful enough to get the fun toys in drones but alas... i can't argue with that logic.supported..."
"always \"yes\" to more sentry damage."
"yes. but, things would need to be done to prevent it being exploited. and many of these methods are already in place"
"with re: to corp references, you could always have the employment history and name history in same window, so:on left column, corps with timelineon right column, names with timelineso you would see where the names and corps crossed over (and also be able to see more easily with a timeline how long the guy stays in corps and keeps names)."
"supported.so supported"
"agreed."
"yes i'd like it very much!!"
"click-scroll-click-scroll-click-scroll-click-scroll-click.... yay fun!!11!"
"support"
"supported"
"no.my bank, my real online bank with real money running into the billions of pounds does not need expensive unnecesary gimmicks.it needs only a second password, that i enter key letters from using drop down boxes, not keystrokes.this very cheap option seems to be secure enough for real banks with real money. virtual game machine with virtual money only needs such gimmicks to sell keyring tat to children, that hopefully they lose or break and have to buy another.just no."
"old(ish) thread, but completely supported. most of the arguments against are \"i don't want to use it.\" well then, don't. it's optional. i, for one, would pay a couple bucks to know that nobody else can access my account./signed."
"firstly, i'll confess to actually not having read all of this thread, although the first few posts were very familiar for these 'mature' forums...to the 'security' brigade, that don't want the extra level of security, and believe that any hacks are purely the users fault.. this is amied at you guys...1. you don't have to use it, well done, i worship you like the internet god's you show yourself as..2. the real point now... lots of people i guess play eve on 'shared' family machines, it's a fact of life, not every family can afford multiple machines in the household for every family member.. so, while my son / wife, are browsing the web, and installing whatever **** they can, i can safely log into eve, using my dongle, safe in the knowledge that whatever they did, will not affect my login ...that should be enough reason in itself for an extra level of security..."
"there are ways (even described earlier) to implement this without putting objects within objects, entirely avoiding the db issue alltogether.first, what does it take to flag a players ship to be unseen, invurneable, and view locked on the carrier of captain x?second, the status of the carrier is just a matter of returncalls from the carrierobject, easily used for the players locked (\"docked\") on captain x's carrier/ms.a simple barebone \"docking\" version could simply be no more advanced than the \"docked\" and flagged as mentioned above, and easily reflagged back to the carrier x's position when leaving/carrier dc's or being forced out by the captain.nothing is impossible."
"completely support this idea. i think that motherships are long due a buff and this would do it just great, also carriers being able to carry a couple of bs pilots would not be too bad.i'd probably have it so that the pilots were docked as though at a station, could see the carrier's status i.e. shield/armour/hull.emergency undock would take 30 seconds.if any pilot logged off in the carrier, they would be ejected and warped off. if the carrier pilot logged off, all ships inside the carrier would be ejected.if the carrier is destroyed, all ships inside would be destroyed and all pilots podded. this would add a good bit of risk to the whole endeavour."
"i support this, if only for the hilarious prospect of having a carrier loaded with a billion frigattes, protoss style."
"i am not in support of this as it would remove the value of using a clone bay on a capital ship. right now people mostly use them to get their character from one location to another. i think 90% of the use would be removed if someone could just dock any ship into a carrier and achieve the same thing without needing to have room of creating another jump clone plus you would get to keep your implants and use them at the destination."
"they're not used anyway"
"i like the idea a lot!"
"agreed.before delve war iii, i ratted many hours in systems like gr-j8b, with truesec just below 0.5 iirc. the spawns were ... unsatisfying. you were pretty happy about 1.2 mil double battleship spawns, forget about triple 1.85 or faction-bs-spawns.supported... tho you are one of those who cast me out there"
"this needs to be done, that or take off the timer on clone jumping so it easier to buy a new ship if your unlucky and fail than having to spend at least 1 day in highsec doing lvl 4s if you sec status allows it."
"i think that nerfing mission payout will not even really work at nerfing mission payout .the number of mission runners would be reduced, lp value would climb, some of the loot/salvage would climb, so in the end probably the net change in reward would be small for those capable of running mission fast. teh only people to suffer would be those new to level 4 missions. while not absolutely positive i think it was changed because of complexes and missions.it was too easy to scan a complex to see if the keyholder ship had spawned and too easy to scan a missioner to see what he was tanking.naturally now you scan the wrecks and again know what a missioner is tanking, so probably that was a secondary reason. can't recall any dev comment about ratting and directional scanner while i vaguely recall some comment about the above mentioned two points and about lag using the scanner.good post by the op and the above comments by slave. note that those md information are about a problematic period for meaningful statistics: mid august to mid september. we would need the same data for other periods of the year. i am not totally convinced by the solution the op proposed (too few data to really evaluate them) but 0.0 and low sec rewards need some tweaking/change, even if i feel it is right that the largest rewards in 0.0 are at the alliance/corporation level and not for a single pilot. so i support this discussion."
"this is definatly an good ide to improve the isk/hr gain in low - null sec without destroying all high sec players' game"
"agree with this. very well though out."
"despite the op being a goon, i support this idea."
"reduce empire isk faucets and the problem sorta fixes itself."
"i don't rat, but i wouldn't mind seeing 0.0 (and lowsec) profitability increase for everyone."
"something really needs to be done about the imbalance highsec level 4 missionrunning represents in contrast to other activities in eve.most cogent well though out proposal i've heard."
"this is the most well-written, well thought-out post i've read in this forum or any other forum related to isk balance, and it takes into account a lot of the real world issues that people face competing with level 4 high sec missionsvery much supported. low sec and low end null sec need a boost, rather than simply nerfing level 4's again."
"i expect ccp will make some fixes to 0.0 as part of this next expansion, but i am worried that they will move too slowly, and too incrementally. some major shifts are warranted. i think alchemy fixed this in part by making there be more potential personal moons that aren't filthy lucre enough to be alliance controlled but are still worth enough to pay for a subscription. but still, there needs to be a rethinking of reasons for people to be in the belts in 0.0."
"jawhol commandant"
"supported.i mostly rat in low sec because high sec gets too boring too quick. adding bs spawns to low sec made ratting viable but i know i could make much more isk (without risk) by missioning in high sec."
"supported"
"ok ccp, time to drop all other client changes and work on this. seriously. localisation? balls. ui reorganisation? balls too. drone ui? overview? probing? balls balls and more balls.multi-monitor support nao!"
"a better presentation of the issue than vuk's. your proposed changes sound broadly reasonable, and like they'd fix a lot of the problem. of course, there's limits on how good you can make a customer support centre, but there is room for improvement, and these changes would likely be serious improvements. supported."
"petitions can be escalated by players; why not by gms?"
"this. i don't know how many gm answers have been copy/paste or have had petitions deleted without any response.these days i generally just don't petition anything unless it's to troll or for s&g since i don't expect a serious answer anyway."
"supporting this, more measured thread. we the player base don't have enough information about the gm team or their procedures to judge where the problem lies or what needs to be done, but i think it's clear from the response here on the forums that something needs to be done.oh, and to address one specific point raised:there's nothing wrong with copy&paste messages, if used appropriately. anyone who thinks differently should try responding to a couple of hundred emails containing the same question - and consider how much time you want the gm team to spend on reinventing the wheel.of course, pre-written responses doesn't remove the need for gms to read the initial message and make a judgement about how to handle it, and it sounds as if some of them need to be reminded of that."
"supported.and by the way, locking the other thread with 14 pages of replies in support here:"
"i agree with redsplat and support this issue. redsplat is a cool guy."
"what i really want to see is a gm operation that does more than ctrl+v \"our logs show nothing\" to petitions.failing that, replace them with trained monkeys to do all the pasting of nonsense answers and spend the savings on more devs."
"but they need a well deserved spanking, they got it coming for em! your too nice for my liking :)"
"supported.and it has to be said that, moon dogg is top dog!"
"thanks for pulling my posts from the locked thread over. i was afraid i was going to have to re-post them here, and for today that is just too much effort (long day at work so far!).people are stating that we don't know enough about that gm and petition system to formulate an educated response, and they are probably right. my ideas are from the viewpoint of a very \"barebones\" approach to customer service."
"woo"
"this. i have always felt my replies were satisfactory even when they didn't agree with my requests. as pointed in other threads it is only logic that some reply is cut and paste, if the gm had to write a personal reply with different wording every time he get the same question it will lose a lot of time for nothing. adding personal has a cost, we are sure we want to bear that?and the op calling that there is is the usual methodology to say \"i am the representative of all eve players, i have lost my faith in the gm so all player have lost faith in them\". no the op and vuk and some other people have lost faith in the gm, but that don't make them \"all eve\"."
"i would love to see an integrated battle recorder similar to what battlefield does but only for your account and not everyone like bf's.other than that i don't support or not support the topic. informing a company of your dissatisfaction with services is fantastic and the response here shows that many have had less than happy times with the gm's.however, i am more concerned about the reason for so many people having constant communications with the gm's which is the feeling i get from the other thread. is it technical issues that if resolved would be better served fixing the technical issue and stopping the gm contact issue by default? is it a time thing? having had my share of dealings in this matter patience is a virtue many people simply do not have. or is it something else?"
"i support this thread"
"i agree that we don't know enough about the actual process to make useful comments on how to improve it. but that being said i think one of the big problems is gms not reading all the way through some petitions. i personally have never had any problems with the way petitions work and have had the majority of petitions i write turn out in my favor(i've had 3-4 ships replaced by ccp over the past 2 years) and i believe the way their ship reimbursement works relatively well as long as there was an actual problem with the game. that being said the only complaint i have on the way the petition program works right now is the time involved. i petitioned to get my ship and implants back after losing ship/pod to the gate jump desynch bug i got the implants and ship back(minus dropped modules) but it took a month to get this straightened out. now i can understand that there were probably thousands of similar petitions but 4 weeks for completion of a simple bug related problem is too long. changes need to be made to the petition process to not only have more informed gms responding to petitions but also to decrease the time involved in resolving the petitions.well thats just my 2 cents hope people take the time to read it and sorry for the wall of text"
"i second this"
"i have lost most trust in gms. i have to escalate everything in order to be dealt with fairly. if i get one more answer that states \"our logs show nothing\" i am going to scream.i understand the workload, but ccp should understand my subscription fee. when game mechanics fail (like the do quite frequently in eve), there needs to be a dedicated and understanding gm corps to pick up the peices and offer help.i have run into gms that were very professional and i appreciate this. i just wish it was the majority instead of the minority.-gv"
"bump, agreed"
"i support this thread still think vuks was best lack of ccp response = nothing in these posts to copy and paste"
"i fully endorse this product"
"supporting this, but ccp won't change anything."
"very good."
"nice work"
"i think 360+ (last i counted) people, even though most were mm and vuk alts and what not, saying they are displeased with the gm crew, to the point that they don't file petitions/escalate all of their petitions. even if i used an hyperbole to accentuate the problem a little, my point is still viable. also, the whole point of this forum is to represent the eve player base - if you got so much support for it, i would believe many other less outspoken people are just \"suffering\" in silence."
"this is starting to remind me of old style goon threads on caod."
"/signed. the senior gms are on the ball for sure, but the first line gms are brutal. we should all just use one default pre-scripted response requesting an escalation until the junior level gms handling petition learn their business. everyone appreciates that ccp is trying to reduce the time it takes to handle complaints, but getting them resolved properly should be prioritized now."
"supportedspecifically regarding the problem of abuses in the petition system. the number of threads i've read where carebears (and some pvp'ers) promote filing false or fraudulent petitions simply to gain an ingame advantage. the most notable example of this is mission runners petitioning to get their missions reset after they (through their own fault) lose or destroy the mission item. rather than admitting that it was their fault, they claim the item never spawned.edit: i can't spell."
"lol agreed - seems like too many thumbs up, too little opposition and constructive criticism/ideas. but atleast we got all of mm behind us no?"
"-.-"
"ok .. i will post again but i'm pretty sure ccp will find a way to lock this thread too."
"and weeks later you got an answer"
"i agree masha, i lost a chimera to a bug in our old alliance and many people agreed i should of got it back, and now my recent lost of a heavly tanked ship to a single frigate rat they cant explain, and so far they will not esclate to senior gm (been 2 days since i asked). i 100% supprot this."
"nothing to add."
"the animosity of the playerbase towards gms really boils down to:- copy-and-paste / bot replies- the myriad of (mostly lag-related) issues that lead to \"our logs don't show that\" responses.fix the lag and you fix most of the second issue. i know this is being worked on, and i have enough technical background to fully appreciate the issues in hand. since some of the issues are inherently unsolvable without major changes to the codebase, it would be nice to see some effort made towards 'working around' the desync issues caused by the lag (thus generating petitions), or at the very least helping provide feedback for the logs when these conditions occur. if you can't fix it, make it easier to clean up afterwards.--------on the point of testing gms at hire, this may not be possible. i'm sure a number of gms are in the us office by now. from what i understand in many states hiring exams are forbidden (because, as any american knows, every test of every form are always racist, but that's another flamebait topic). what they could do, though, is test after hire to weed out the incompetent and provide remedial training. if they don't make the cut after that then they can be ditched easily if it's a work-at-will state."
"supported.it'd be nice if i thought the gms even played the game."
"they did .. they ran with bob .. why do you think calls seemed to always go their way supported"
"gm closing petition faster than it could have been humanly possible to read (literally 3 seconds)."
"supported"
"rawr"
"while i dont feel the gm team are hopeless there is definitive room for improvements! after having the c+p response enough to just ask for escalation if i get it and the gm failing to read the pet enough so that senior gm kicked it back to the lower gm"
"supported"
"100% agree"
"worst idea ever, and i'm a big time miner.. lol.1) these can never be in low-sec, they'd have to be 0.0 only.2) miners will be in hulks, you expect hulks to assume control of these guns within the belt? interceptors can fly faster then a pos gun can track them but can definitely kill a defenseless hulk. so whats the point? even if you didn't have a gang of fast ships your guns couldn't track attacking you hulks have no defense, so any even crappy gang will be large enough to quickly pop each hulk trying to assume control of guns before those guns could do much damage to a gang (specifically since any decent roaming gang will have logistics).3) mechanic wise this is a nightmare, you're turning a belt into a pos. by the time a miner chugs along over to get in range of a gun to control they'll be long dead, so they're still going to have to safe up and the mining op is disrupted.so, in conclusion, since the idea is idiotic, it's also pointless and won't accomplish what the op was wanting to do anyway.the _sad_ thing is a csm actually thought this was a good idea and put it on a meeting agenda. there goes the last shred of respect i had for csm's..."
"interesting idea"
"the current insurance scheme is significantly flawed. it provides an artificial mineral price cap, as well as a massive influx of isk. it is a very blatant form of wow style hand-holding, and it provides yet another reason for the \"bigger is better\" attitude. this is what it looks like now.uninsured - 40% compensation. (wtf is this??)5% premium - 50% compensation10% premium - 60% compensation15% premium - 70% compensation20% premium - 80% compensation25% premium - 90% compensation30% premium - 100% compensationthis yields a 40-70% insurance for a ship that will be destroyed.so basically you have an insurance policy that pays out 2:1 isk you provide, in addition to an unconditional 40% compensation. the compensation doesn't reflect market value, but rather mineral base prices. market value of ships are far more often than not significantly lower than mineral base prices. this can cause the net loss of a hull to be as little as 5-10%. the loss of the hull is less than the loss of the modules most of the time (not including rigs).i don't know about the rest of you, but i'd like to see ship losses actually mean something. by reducing the base compensation amount to 10%, and reducing the insurance payout rate to 3:2, it will hurt significantly more when you lose a hull.uninsured - 10% compensation5% premium - 17.5% compensation...30% premium - 55% compensationthis yields a 10-25% insurance for lost hulls, far more than what is warranted for a vessel that you know will be destroyed within the next 3 months. people might be more hesitant to form bs blobs when there is risk of substantial monetary loss, and smaller vessels might actually help to defend their bigger brothers."
"not supported. it would just mean more carebearing for people or selling gtc for the matter.most people want to enjoy pvp. if you reduce insurance payout, privateers would just get more smacktalking and station camping as you got atm already.waiting for your next idea. :)"
"oh noes, people will have to work for their isk? oh, and it will also mean more small vessels. as for selling gtc, that will always be a factor... but there is a threshold when a person decides it isn't worth it. most people want to enjoy pvp, but many don't, myself included. pvp has become nothing more than \"bring your biggest boat\", and the majority of camps i've seen are bs blobs that have little or no tactical flexibility. napfests, blobs, focus fire, rr, pos warfare, etc make pvp boring. for the umpteenth time, please stop comparing me to people who camp 4-4. mbalm has a high presence in minmatar space, far from the 4-4 camps. if you're in minnie space, combat is probably your goal. so please, could you base your response on the merit of the issue, and not the alliance tag that someone has?besides, when people who lose their industrial to a camp, it's not usually the ship hull they're ****ed off about.stealth edit: supporting my own idea."
"not supported.proof of your foolish notion - try insuring a freighter or an orca.regardless of whether the ship is more likely to get into a combat situation.. sooner or later all ships get blown up.insurance has some problems... but what your talking about is wholly so far in left field its laughable.in case you forgot.... insurance covers the basic average (i think) cost of the shipnot the fittings...ammo... or rigs.particularly when it comes to tech 2 mods...and even then insurance can be completely blown out of the water just by sheer market pricing alone (hence the freighter/orca situation)good intentions... wrong idea.not supported."
"actually if minerals were closer to their base prices insurance on capitals would work exactly the same as it does on sub capitals.its just that the cost of capital ships is broken up so that 30% is in trit and 30% is in mex, which because of depressed prices (which is another topic in and of itself) of other minerals keeps these two floated lofty despite the massive amount of mex coming in from loot. so the cost is inflated over and above what the base price is."
"not quite that simple.insurance is a big cause of inflation.without insurance prices of ships would come down,atm prices for t1 ships are held in place by insurance.meaning bad players get to grind less than they would have too otherwise and good players have to grind more than they would have too otherwise.personaly i would like to see insurance be free at 80% for the first 6 months of a characters life.after that no insurance at all.the major reason why eve pvp is a rush compared to single player games is you stand to lose the product of your hard work if you lose.insurance kind of waters that down and provides mechanics to make lame meta gaming tactics like suicide ganging possible.eve would be more intense without insurance."
"with all due respect... (and i do sincerely mean that : o ) )insurance being the cause of inflation is a little hard to stomach.keep in mind insurance is mostly a black hole... an isk sinkhole...every time i <coughstupidlycough> lose my battlecruiser or battleship insurance doesn't help me do jack because of all the fittings and rigs... oh sure it takes a good chunk out of it... but insurance is not the cause.manufacturing costs vs market prices vs player greed is.then your dealing with the argument that i got thrown at me about renewing insurance platinum levels when its due is a waste of time when you honestly can't afford to lose the but cant afford to not use it for the sake of income.not everyone in eve is rich... or well off... which really urks me when you get these damned idiots posting saying that removing loot and taking away mission running nuiances is the main source of income.got news for you morons... some of us are not that good.i still make more money mining... but it gets boring and i go mission run.. and in all honesty... there's not much to be made in mission running.. even with salvage... unless i'm doing something wrong... i barely make 10 to 20 mil an hour when i get done with a level 3 or 4 at that rate.i think inflation is caused by many factors... i scarcely believe insurance is one of them.i do like the free 6 months of insurance but that could be abused big time by many pvp'ers.again... maybe i'm rambling here... but somethings amiss here when you blame inflation on insurance."
"proof there is inflation in eve?"
"oh god please make it happen i am sick of it."
"how can this not have been suggested before? gimme gimme gimme"
"support"
"yes"
"it would be very nice, and seems basic enough."
"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on"
"i support ccp looking in the mini problemthe last poster brought up my original thought about this topic a while back with having different engagement ranges but with how eve works this just cannot work with 3 gun systems that easily.below are suggestions on how i think this problem can be helped. most suggestions based about solo and sniper fleet work because the phoon is better at gang work and maelstrom fills a few roles quite nicely. i think its a mix of a lot of small changes that fixes this issue rather than a few bigger changes or single changes to 1 ship.- firstly minmatar ideas just dont work great at a bs level, just like amarr ideas dont work that great at a cruiser level. i think this unbalance is good balance within the game just not at the degree it is currently.- in comparison to the rupture and hurricane which are the most like it, 2 utility slots with 1-2 guns less than other competing ships it has more shields than armour which is opposite of those two ships, swap this around and maybe even bump it up a tad to be inline after the % based hp boosts.- race that uses falloff doesnt get extra fall off for using a higher tier, dont nerf other tiers boost the middle and higher tier. the other races higher tier guns get too close to our fall off advantage with their damage/optimal advantage.- more cap usage for pulses? less fall off for both blasters/pulses? gives the tempest more reason to fit neuts to counter amarr and helps against gallente if you can successfully kite them.- more drone bay to give it utility drones so it can use what i needs in the situation, bandwidth is fine.- higher cap regen to help sustain the kiting and repping?- more speed and agility to help bs kite a bit easier. does less mass give it more acceleration as this can be the big problem with bss?- needs a tad more pg, allows it to use bigger guns and arty easier. allows it to use high pg reppers compared to lower pg plates and use those rigs for extra damage mods or falloff.- join current tempest bonuses in to 1 bonus and give a small fall off bonus. this makes it better at kiting which i feel is the missing role mini have on a bs level. i dont really want the tempest to be another tank and gank bs.- raw ac damage, while it does do more types of damage and can change if you know what your attacking it is still lacking in general oomph compared to amarr and gallente (didnt compare caldari). this is even worse if its a longer fight and you counter in reload times. at minimum a %5 increase is really needed here. its hard to justify too much but when the idea is for us to fight in fall off we need as much dps as possible so we dont loose so much.- artillery does need help, i will leave this to others as i havent done much with sniper fleets.most of these ideas could all be done and i feel not overpower the tempest but in reality a few of these together would give the tempest a better role and i think overall balance the guns types a bit more. the tempest is still going to be fairly low on hp and because of that would always suffer in a close up slug fest. most of these changes affect the tempest the most, while the maelstrom gets a bit more falloff using higher tier guns and maybe a tad more dps it doesnt break it at all. for the phoon its not very noticeable, slightly more dps but normally uses fewer acs than torps and generally the lower tier so wont get any bonus from high tier fall off.i dont think fixing acs and the tempest can be done without nerfing amarr/gallente slightly. amarrs big negative is high cap consumption yet really this only an issue on the abaddon as the geddon gets its cap bonus. i feel this negative while decent isnt enough given their huge range and dps advantage. numbers wise i have not generally given any as i have written this up fairly quickly with a little bit of eft chucked in. would be great if someone could chuck some of these ideas into graphs and how it would affect stuff."
"---continued from above---also would ccp feel the need to balance all guns types if they did this or would balancing just large be enough? i feel only larges need to be changed as i love the current balance we have with frigs/cruisers/bcs. against amarr y"
"all well thought out concerns. its been issue identified by ccp, just never had any solution. supported."
"the issues identified by matting do give me pause to think: if the minmatar ships are supposed to be hit and run, why can't they really do either in the bs field? i know that the typhoon is supposed to be one of the highest dps ships and once you'ved trained all the skills, it can be pretty good in point blank gank rr outfits (because its terrible armor won't let it live long enough to outdamage other ships, even if its orbiting closely at speed, which can fail badly if your enemy webs you or uses a neut). in the same vein, the tempest could be the minnie bs hit and run/kite ship, but at the moment it just is not fast enough, nor does it have enough damage to really do that role. another one thing the tempest could do well is spider-tanking, except that rr shield repping is less than optimal.minnie bs really need a revision"
"supported."
"while i personally believe this situation is by design of marketing strategy and game development working hand in hand to string out people subscriptions and thus wont be addressed- i hope it will.anyone remember zuluparks q&a where he said projectiles and minny bs were going to be looked at?still waiting m8"
"supported.i won't type a long story except to say:1.) in the game balance thread where players listed the top 10, minmatar bs / caps / weapon systems were heavily voted upon needing rebalancing2.) in the ccp blog of comparing bs, they were 'surprised' as to why so few people flew minmatar bs.summary: minmatar needs a little love. whether the fix is to ship hulls, or weapon systems, or removing the stupid 'split weapon systems' or 'minmatar always fight in falloff which is ~38.5% dps at falloff lol' mechanic, or alternative mechanics, i don't care. but they need something."
"supported"
"tempest and large ac's need a big buff as even 10% straight damage would still leave the tempest sub-par. i want to go back to flying tempests (i fly the phoon now i have the sps) but not while they are so inferior.there is nothing wrong with a tempests layout or bonus's it is just that a double damage bs needs to do major damage when fit with 2+ damage mods or it will suck."
"fix"
"against it!people already do too much just to get a stupid kill mail."
"no - kill mail info needs to be reduced not added to"
"yesplz, just because it does not matter to you does not mean it doesnt matter to others. by the same thinking, i say reduce the types of minerals to just tritanium"
"."
"forgive me this is like my first glorified rant in assm hall. maybe with the fact that there is no discussion about this topic i'm just knit-picking issues out of nowhere i plead curious ignorance.[q] so.. (off the top of my head.) warp to 0km was introduced to unburden the use millions of bookmarks on the servers. a year later was that ever even needed due too new hardware? - & - player commodity usage of bookmarks.[q] is it too easy too get about the galaxy today? barring any roadblocks a ceptor pilot ex ares could get from the southern bottom of the map to the tip of the north in an hour. [q] are there any new regions planned for the ever growing populous of eve to unburden the popular use of game breaking blobs."
"i'm semi confused at what this thread's point is? are you trying to suggest that its too easy to move around in eve? anywho, i think this is more of a discussion piece and less of a suggestion/issue piece, since you dont seem to have a formulated idea on the matter.having said that, ill entertain some of your questions/thoughts. wasn't in-game at that point in time, but i think the move to a warp to 0 makes sense both game wise and fiction wise - what kind of technology can fire a bs 10 ly away on a pinpoint precision and won't be able to warp at a much higher precision. i think it depends - if you aren't in ceptor, at almost any 0.0/empire border you'll hit a bubble gatecamp that will **** you. even in one, any decent gatecamp will usually be able to stop cloakers/ceptors pretty easily. i can't see where you're going with this. i assume ccp will introduce more space at one point in time, but it def. doesn't need it now. disregarding the enormous free space that is w-space, most of the 300k players that play the game atm are empire dweleres, and even out of the 50k that live in 0.0 or lowsec, most are huddled in groups - i've had times when i ran 10 0.0 systems that were barren other than the random macro raven. so imo, space isn't an issue right now. as for blobing, i fail to see why having more people in a fleet = bad. either evolved and become better than them (most blobs are idiots anyhow, and very few people play this game remotely right), or join the party and celebrate. in any rate, unless you wanna **** up the reason we play online (this is a mmo) by introducing anti gang mechanics, you'll have to evolve, get swallowed by the swarm, or die.anywho, this thread should be closed for lack of any constructive info in it."
"ive updated my op title to remove that issue bracket for disc bracket"
"this discussion should really be held somewhere else... not here. (doesn't feel right : o p )unless you got a problem with the system...perhaps jita park?"
"traversing, not transversing. edit again but yes, this is not the place for such a discussion, i'd suggest taking it to gd or suggestions & ideas before amalgating the discussion into a consistant topic raising either a defined issue or putting a proposal in the assembly hall."
"wtz is a good thing, as far as i'm concerned. an hour is still a fair bit of time to be flying just to get from a to b. and new regions, meh."
"you could just take a region from someone else. happens quite a lot lately.delve/period basis/querious/insmother/detroid/etherium reach.just to name a few :)"
"t2 bpos are fine. removing them is worse than keeping them."
"this idea has been brought up before and never acted upon. however, i'd like to say the most reasonable suggestion i ever saw was to replace all t2 bpos with an equivalent bpc having enough runs for a full year of constant production."
"not supported.before invention: \"t2 bpo owners are charging too much! waah!\"after invention: \"t2 bpo owners aren't charging enough! waah!\"the truth of the matter is that the ones driving down t2 prices to levels unprofitable for inventors are the inventors themselves. and it's for exactly the same reason as why t1 manufacturing is unprofitable. some idiot comes along, mines his own minerals for free, collects his own datacores for free, gets his bpcs for free, uses his pos's labs for free, writes down his failed invention jobs as free, uses manufacturing facilities for free, and then puts them on the market for free at a stupid discount to pre-existing orders.done right, an inventor can produce many items in the same time a t2 bpo owner can produce only 1, thanks to the fact that invention will yield multiple bpcs to build from in parallel. a smart inventor will be able to make, say, 10 units at 5 million profit in the same time that the supposed game-ruining t2 bpo owner makes 10 million on one unit.tl; dr: invention \"sucks\" because of inventors."
"they depress prices only for those items where the demand is inferior to the production of the existing bpo.but removing the bpo that allow low cost production of those item will not make them competitive. people would simply move to low cost named/faction versions of the same item instead of paying the invention costs.note that t2 module bpc waste don't apply to the t2 material but only to the asteroid ores, so production cost isn't so different. the only real extra cost is the invention process."
"i will borrow secnes words about the sale of a hulk bpo:"
"the price/value of the datacores is dictated by the most rewarding form of invention.i have recently redone my math for some common t2 module (with bpo) and i have got as high as 70% gain after evaluating all the components and datacores at the best price between minimum sell price or higher buy price. as i checked only what i can already build probably some item give even higher returns.1 character with 10 production lines, checking sporadically the market and counting as profit only the difference between selling all the components (datacore, bpc, t2 components, minerals, ram, t1 module, named module used in invention) and using a success percentage slightly lower than the real one, about 1,5 billions/month.people checking constantly the market for the \"best module of the moment\" will surely make more as i have occasionally noticed modules that would easily double that value, but i am lazy.using all 3 alts from a account you can easily get more than 4 billions/month with little work.plus what you get from buying the components at low prices and selling them (in the from of the module) at high price. that can double what you get, but the extra income is generated by trading, not directly by inventing."
"/me reattatches ass which fell off when laughing hysterically"
"i bolded the wrongest part.please compare margins on hics and hacs to see why."
"ok, so maybe i over-generalized from a few point-cases... i'll keep filling out the spreadsheet with more items and see where that takes us. (yes, the spreadsheet precedes any actual building, to whoever poo-poo-ed me for not doing mkt research) thanks for talking the time to comment, even those of you who were slightly flame-esque.sad if the bad prices really are mostly due to inept cost accounting.bill to bill+1/2 a month... well, not bad if that's supplemental, but i'm sure not switching careers :) -space"
"for 1 character spending less than 1 hour day doing that and including only the net profit from invention? if you include the profit from the trade part (buying lows cost component) it get at 2-3 billions doing it in a lazy way. use all 3 character on your account and you will make 6-8 billionsmonth using 2 hours/day. it scale well with the number of characters doing it, you don't need to put your buy and sell orders more than once and a single inventor can produce enough bpc for all the characters; the other characters only need to log in, start 10 building jobs and leave."
"i think this number is far away from the truth. let's take the example of the \"high demand\" item 1mn afterburner ii:- a single t2 bpo builds around 650 to 700 items per month- sold items in heimatar in july: 3287means: a single 1mn afterburner ii bpo covers around 20% of the market in heimatar. most regions have less throughput than heimatar, a few have higher throughput. supposed there are still 10 to 15 1mn abii bpos in use (noone really knows, except ccp) i would guess 10% to 20% remains a valid number for the whole of the eve universe.this is a considerable factor on the market in my opinion but is it a factor which could dictate the price or even destroy invention?from an economic viewpoint: no. but there might be a serious \"psychological\" effect, for instance: t2 bpo owner places a big pile of items on the market for a price which is profitable for him but not for an inventor who has higher costs. inventor isn't cool enough, gets nervous and undercuts the price, next inventor does the same, and so on... they better would wait until the bpo owner had sold his stuff which would be the case after less than a week according to the calc above; after that the market would be clean of bpo produced items and the inventors could sell for the price they need for the rest of the month.in my opinion only the economic viewpoint should be taken into account if we think about removing t2 bpos from the game, not this psychological argument (if it exists in reality at all), that's a problem of the inventors, not of market, production, supply and demand itself. (well, undercutting to death and not considering the real complete costs is a general problem anyway, also for t1 production, not only for t2.)so finally i would still follow your conclusion - well, i replace \"nonissue\" by \"not a big issue\"."
"the benefit of t2 originals is not in cost, profit or even production scaling. invention is in most cases quite capable of outperforming blueprint original production through scaling.the benefit of t2 originals is in their higher efficiency in purpose defined production for corporations and alliances, less (alt)manpower required for maintaining production in a process which requires quite a bit less manual interaction. t2 originals are a very useful asset for any group of people who focus strictly on a limited set of objectives in game (for example fleet pvp) as there is much less need for (alt)manpower and those extra steps.does that overpower matters? i doubt it. remember people scale just as easily as assets in eve. and while t2 originals do allow for a much more streamlined supply process invention does provide the same output result. the \"extra\" work can be mitigated through delegation and teamwork.but do t2 originals still have a place in eve, since the days of the lottery are thankfully over, in a setting where ultimately they remain isk printers with lower maintenance required as invention, and where the majority of t2 originals undergo a centralisation process over the years, bottling up in a select few places? maybe, maybe not. the only one who could really make a justifiable statement on distribution, ownership, purpose and output is ccp. more accurately the economist and his data mining team. i'd love to see such data. but without that data any player judgement on the good, the bad, the ugly of t2 originals is like sticking a wet finger in the wind.i like the eminent domain angle though that would be the perfect angle to take should it ever come to a value exchange & removal, but i doubt it ever will."
"i support this thread because i believe the game as a whole needs a hard or soft reset."
"t2 bpos are absurdly expensive to buy for anyone so their actual utility is greatly diminished by having to sink that much isk into one in the first place. the lotto system was hell for everyone we can all agree, but invention still is not as reliable as it probably needs to be.i believe that t2 bpos should be able to be seeded as loot from cosmos or exploration/archaeology/hacking as very rare finds as named module bpcs are. if that can not be done then....my proposal is instead of t2 bpcs we are given blueprint templates which in turn can be modified(me, pe, runs)(at great cost mind you) but they in turn would be able to produce a bpo with the attributes you have researched in the template. the bpo would not be able to be researched though, only the template. the template would also only be able to create a number of bpos before it is broken apart. the bpo would be copyable of course like they can be now but invention needs to be more stable. before anyone believes this would lead to spamming of t2 bpos remember that it would not be immediate, just like how t3 production is still getting off the ground to stand on its own, you don't see everyone flying a t3 ship now do you?"
"yes but take in mind there is an initial investement cost, or even if you won it in the lottery, a cost of opportunity (not selling it) attached to the bpo. so it works that way too.if the owner does not take in account this investment/cost of opportunity is as fool as the 'datacore/decryptor/crapp is free' crew.probably 0.5% was an exageration and made up number, but yes: we don't know how many of each t2 bpos are in-game, of them which are active or producing all the time. a lot of these are being collected by rich alliances because are good foir internal production as said by someone else in above me, etc.i'm not sure, and i can't tell, but i doubt the impact of bpos is that high, funny enough, items with bpos around make more profit than others which don't have them."
"since invention prices have dropped and the resellers have the market cornered and i agree that most large alliances and corps are now using there bpos for restocking there own members.there is no reason to remove bpos from the game as it would then drive prices up as invention would then be the monopoly"
"hm, it's not comparable in my opinion. a bpo is an asset, it's like a share on stock market and the isk you make with producing from this bpo is like dividends you get from this asset. you can always sell this asset, perhaps with loss, perhaps without loss, perhaps with profit. (in case of t2 bpos i believe the latter will be true over time due to the increasing rarity and collector's effect.) well, you could consider datacores and other materials for invention/production as an asset too because perhaps you can sell it a month later for a higher price. but they have no dividends on their own. as soon as you invent/produce your \"asset\" is consumed and its value is completely converted into the invented bpc/produced item. selling it now for a price less than the costs of the initial asset is a pure loss.so actually i would consider the investment costs/costs of opportunity of a bpo as zero (perhaps even negative!) and only compare the costs of production materials for the bpo producer with the costs of bpcs+datacores+decrytors+production materials for the inventor/producer. the latter are always worse. of course the bpo owner has some tied capital which he could use for other, maybe better investments, but that's not the same like \"costs\".let's say: if you have the iskies and if you don't know what else to do with it, it is always a better decision to buy a t2 bpo and produce from it than to invent. you only need to be careful not to get ripped off with a bpo price you can never resell it for.(well, i don't take into account the possible total bankrupt of a t2 bpo asset which is: ccp decides to remove them from the game or convert them into bpcs. that's the biggest \"shareholder's\" risk.)"
"not supported.partly because lark is my ceo, but mostly because if ccp thought that it was against the rules,they would have let lark know, locked the sales thread and put a quick stop to it all. and to whomever said that lark should be forced to resign his position as csm: go chew on a knife. lark is working to fix projectiles. this reason alone warrants his position as csm."
"mmo's with cash shops always turn into horrible greed fests with the company either raping the player's wallet or the player playing a nerfed game. paying more for an edge on other players is absolutely the opposite of where this game should go.i know you could say multiple accounts contradict this, but the benefit can be only so great, and preventing it is impossible anyways. it also doesn't foster the spirit of greed that a cash shop does."
"maybe you can afford that extra money, but who says all of eve can pay that? thus it would imbalance the game.conclusion: not supported"
"echoing pretty much everything that has been said. training is about the only thing that is currently fair in eve.not supported."
"not supported"
"terrible idea"
"troll i'm sure but...are you ****ing insane?!"
"well there seem to be two issues then:1. large alliances have a monopoly on moon minerals, stretching from r64's to r32's and they're apparently snapping up many r16's as well.2. moon scanning is currently ... well ... tedious.according to evemaps, fountain has 59 r64's and a total of 4849 moons. having an r64 run dry and a new one respawn elsewhere makes perfect sense, but having to scan 4848 moons to find your next dyspro moon one doesn't. even if it took, say, 30 seconds to warp to each one and scan it before moving onto the next, it would take over one and a half days. not at all ideal.that said, moon scanning could easily be revamped to support the despawning and respawning of moon minerals.assume many years ago, back when the stargates were first built, the pioneers of these new systems ran preliminary scans on all the moons. these scans were all logged on a database and offered general information about the moons, such as their density, mineral makeup, etc. suddenly, you have a way to filter through all the moons in a system, constellation, region or the universe that could possibly contain a particular moon mineral.if for every active r64 sources, there were 5 dormant r64 sources, that would make for just under 300 potential r64 moons in fountain. in the case of your precious dyspro moon, you'll end up with 60 potential candidates. of course, it makes things a bit boring and still rather static if you know your next moon will be somewhere in the same region as you. if moons respawned within 2 constellations of the original moon, that could make things more exciting, with possibly less moons to scan but the possibility of a moon popping up in another region.r64's may respawn every 3 months, r32's every 6 months, r16's ever 9 months and r8's every 12 months. atmospheric gasses could remain static.the 3 month period may not be 100% spot on, though. the moon may last 3 months <U+FFFD>2 weeks. also, this would be 3 months of constant mining. if a corporation is mining for 2 months and then 2 weeks off, it'll still have a month of mining remaining before the moon runs out. information on how much more mining the moon can take before despawning would be shown in the pos' manage screen. scanning a moon would merely tell you that a mineral is present, not how much time it will last.this, ultimately, should help reduce the monopoly on moon minerals that the major alliances currently have. if your dyspro moon runs out and you find a new one has popped up in the space of a close ally, what happens next? do you ask your ally to let you mine it? or will the ally want it for himself? it could help to break down the epic nappage that has spread like a virus through 0.0 as friends break ties over r64's that were once under one side's control.even worse, if your dyspro moon runs dry and a new one spawns in the territory of your enemy, what do you do? your enemy might not realise that your moon has run dry and be completely oblivious to the fact that an r64 is sitting in his own sov space. if you launch an attack, will he let the system go, thinking it is worthless, or will he get suspicious and start scanning down moons, suspecting that you might be after a new r64.the whole idea is an unusual case, though. though it would help to make the eve universe a more dynamic one, i can imagine the major power blocs being against it because they'll lose their license to print isk as a result. maybe some alliances will look further and accept the idea as a challenge.yes it's a major change and it may cause t2 items to bump up in price a bit, but the economists in eve are always complaining that there is too much isk in eve. either you take the isk away from people or you make items more expensive. maybe they will support this idea. i don't know."
"moon mining monopoly is bad.but the moon itself is not the problem me-thinks.... i'd be more inclined to think its something else.what that is? don't know... but making moons respawn and move and shift... would be game breaking at best.not supported."
"i've heard people say this but i still have yet to hear an argument from most as to why!"
"try the amount of effort it takes to anchor a pos and take one down... never mind the territorial flux that would result.surely you thought of that.hell i'm not even in 0.0 business and i see that clear as day!"
"part of the whole idea is to make 0.0 more dynamic and the territorial flux is an intended side effect. with alliances hunkering down, putting up outposts in every other system, we'll end up with alliances unable to find contenders to their space. yes, fights will be had, but they'll be bigger, blobbier and laggier as the participants reap the rewards of their license to print isk and smaller and newer alliances will be unable to enter 0.0 without sucking up to the superpowers, only making the battles even bigger, blobbier and laggier. just look at bob, where it wasn't until a disgruntled director disbanded the alliance before they were toppled. what if it becomes this way for every major power bloc in eve?yes, the pos mechanic is broken, as are titans and outposts, so i guess there are a whole string of fixes needed in 0.0, but spending half a day every 3 months to move a pos isn't really that bad in the grand scheme of things, especially if it's going to make you billions every week. of course, if an alliance had 90 r64's, he'd be moving one every day, but that's his punishment for being selfish and not sharing his moons!"
"allrght... nice to see an rational response to my troll shot.so i'll concede to your reasoning and tilt my hat at you sir.but it still stands... you'll never get this off the ground with the current 0.0 mechanics (along with pos's) as they are.so we'll just have to sit and wait."
"i'm sure there's a fairly lengthy explanation out there, but it doesn't really make sense why minmatar who typically get an inherent +10% em resist on tier one ships, have it on armor rather than shields on ships explicitly designed for shield tanking (see: maelstrom, cyclone, possibly nag now)this is sort of beyond the versatility argument, insofar as these ships are intentionally made to shield tank, unless you want a no damage wonder of an armor tank on them with a whack of ewar.tl;dr fix the bonus on minmatar shield ships."
"there are already lots of shield tanked matari ships with really high em resists.not supported.p.s.: if you get that through i want a decent base em resist for caldari t2 ships :p"
"shields operate on a standard 0/20/40/50 resistance. armor operates on a standard 10/25/35/50 resistance, plus a 10% racial bonus. the problem is not with minmatar, it's with shields. they don't get a 10% racial bonus, and have no 10% em resistance. i could support the re-working of stock shield resistances to include 10% to em in addition to a 10% racial bonus. however, what you're asking (minnie ships to be the exception to the rule) is not the same as what i think needs to be done, so i can't support it."
"this."
"uh you must be confusing minmatar with amarr or gallente.last i checked... minmatar as a majority are shield tanking ships.i'm surprised no one else caught this..that or they where busy correcting you on the current mechanics on shield resists : o p"
"iirc when invention hit tranq it was supposed to be the initial release to be improved upon later , like many things in eve the improvements seem to have got lost in the post.csm get a pointy stick and prod those devs into action.some ideas but not neccessarily these, please feel free to include your own.remove chance based mechanics.remove click fest interface.make output runs proportional to input runs for ship bpc's*make ouptut me improve with improved input me.**make output pe improve with improved input pe.*** output runs = input runs / 5 + decryptor runs where applicable** output me/pe = base + (input me/pe) / 10."
"."
"there is no good reason to do this. no support."
"it should be harder to invent more expensive stuff. so no to the ship run stuff.while i agree with the click fest. it is part of the big industrial overhaul.though the me/pe stuff would be nice. but you are mixing too many issues into one. makes it hard to vote for it without accidently pushing unwanted parts.maybe rework it into multiple issues.not supported."
"carebears dont need more ways to make isk.highsec is not carebear land.existing mechanics are fine.carebears should all die.pirates require a buff.pick the appropriate answer from the top.(sorry about the emorage, tired of \"omg make carebears earn more isk cause they're nerfed threads\")"
"pirates buy their t2 goodies from whom?"
"other pirates"
"epic failoh and not supported."
"wow. if this would be working already i wouldnt earn so much money with selling tech2. ;)"
"reply and new topic are to close together >.>"
"i already know this is going to get flamed horribly simply for the subject matter, but wardec's as they are currently are impotent.please note i am using the term corporation in place of alliance in many cases where they will be mechanically the same. problem:aggressor wardec's fuzzy carebear corporation or alliance.fuzzy carebears leave the corporation, have their corporation leave an alliance or surrender.aggressor does not get his pew pew pew. he does however get slapped in the face with the wardec fee he paid.fuzzy carebears laugh and continue raking in isk, safe in the knowledge that the game mechanics protect them from any reasonable expectation of unconsensual pvp.solution:when the evil griefing aggressor declares a wardec the following happens.-the wardec does not go live for 24 hours after corp or alliance mails go out informing all parties of the wardec.-included in the mail is the terms of the wardec, specifically a surrender fee decided by the aggressors when they order the wardec. paying this surrender fee at any time before the wardec goes active or during the wardec causes the war to be invalidated immediately and informs both parties of such via evemail.-a surrender fee can never be more than *5 the number of individuals in a corporation in millions. e.g a 10 man corp couldn't be set a surrender fee of more than 50 million.-if an alliance is wardec'd the max surrender fee is calculated by the sum total number of characters in every corp that is in the alliance.-a wardec can continue for at most a period of 7 days after going active. after 7 days a wardec invalidates itself; the victim corp cannot then be wardec'd by the same corporation until 48 hours have passed.-if the surrender fee is paid the victim corp cannot be wardec'd by the same corporation for a period of 2 weeks as part of an agreed concord enforced ceasefire.-if an individual leaves a corporation that has been wardec'd a part of the surrender fee is immediately deducted from their personal wallet. this is equal to the total isk in their wallet as a percentage of the sum total isk in all wallets of every member of the corporation, applied to the value of the surrender fee.-the isk thus deducted is placed in the corporation wallet of the aggressor corporation.-if an individual leave a corporation that has declared war then the same tax is levied on their personal wallet but with the exception that said isk pays off part of the surrender fee.-if a wardec is made consensual, the victim corp can set a surrender fee of their own. -if a wardec is consensual the tax levied from personal wallets goes to the enemy corporations corp wallet. in the case of alliances this is the consequencesvictims of a wardec can either fight, stay in corp and avoid fighting or leave corp and have concord protection from violence; for a minuscule personal cost.declaring war on small noob corporations isn't profitable.it wont be possible to perma dec corporations with the same corporation due to the surrender fee being paid and the 2 week immunity.consensual wardec's become a battle of attrition where there will be a clear winner in terms of isk. this is especially true in case of larger corps being beaten by smaller ones.an alliance or much larger corporation declaring war on a smaller one will become inadvisable as the victim can make the dec mutual and set a much higher surrender fee or simply wait for enough members to leave the hostile alliance/larger corp until the surrender fee has been paid for them; given the differences in size this shouldn't take long."
"they say supporting your own topic is the thing to do."
"better than a lot of wardec changes. i don't think these solve the fundamental problems, but they do clean up some of the annoying side issues. i'm worried about automatically withdrawing money from people's wallets(going negative isk sucks), but most of it is reasonable enough. tentative support."
"i agree with hersch's comments about the auto withdrawing of money from people's wallets. a better solution, imo would be to have the wt status follow the individual until:a) the war dec ends, orb) 7 days.whichever period of time is shorter.that said, it is a better idea than most for fixing what's wrong with war decs. i'd like to see the idea mature some though before i give it my support.some things i don't particularly like.max timeframe: this should be longer than 7 days. i agree there should be a limit, but i think 7 is too short, especially if your target has, for instance, multiple high sec pos's you'd like to take down.one other thing i would like to see implemented as part of this change: no new members. iow, neither corporation can swell their ranks with pilots looking for some free pew pew. once the war starts, no new members can be added to either corporation (or alliance) until it's done."
"i'm rather set on the automatic isk withdrawal, fleeing a corp that has been wardec'd should have consequences and hitting someones wallet is the only consequence everyone in eve can understand; and for a lot of highsec dwellers the only measurement of success in this game.negative isk does indeed, suck.but if individuals were not put into negative isk they would simply transfer the entirety of their liquid isk to an alt, then move it back after jumping corporation.would the following amendment's make for a better proposal?-that characters under a month old cannot have their balance reduced below 5 million isk in this manner.younger characters, despite the percentile based nature of the deduction, may stand to suffer the most from fleeing a corp simply due to the fact they have less isk invested elsewhere that can be liquidated to prevent a shortfall.they also would have problems with negative isk that older characters frankly wont.5 million is more than enough for a month old character to start making isk again as a mission runner or margin trading. hell, i made do with far less when i started playing.after a month its not fair to say people will have problems recovering from negative isk, due to the percentile nature of the deduction and the hard limit on surrender fees. stick up a thread, maybe someone will pick this general issue up for next csm and use an amalgamation of threads on the wiki topic. i'm wary of creating a situation where people might decide to dec corps purely to prevent people from leaving corps without penalty, esp if you know an individual is leaving a corp and that he has the lionsshare of a corps profits.i'm also in favour of 'lightning war' and a week is short enough that ccp wont lose subscriptions from diehard bears, a is also long enough that good industrial corps will either hire mercs, pay surrender fee or fight- a weeks reduced profits makes these alternatives more attractive.if you cant do serious damage to a wartarget corp in a week then your corp has issues that an extended time period wont mitigate much.agreed that would make an nice addition and prevent a number of issues currently, but i would favor having a situation where people could join a wardec'd corp but only in the 24 hours before the dec goes live.i'll have a think and (will very likely) make some changes based on feedback, but consider the op a solid proposal."
"disclaimer: i have only been viewing/contributing to this part of the forums for that last week or so, so take all the following with a pinch of salt (not sure if that's the right saying, but oh well).imo, the current assembly hall forum format is disorganized and lacking in meaning/achievements. i did see many important and interesting ideas come up, but most are either ill-developed/trolled/flamed/ignored/etc. therefore, imo the csm/mods should take on the following guidelines and make this part of the forums viable (or more viable than it is atm):each post in the forum (proposal/issue) will have a y amount of time in which to get over x pages of replies - after said time has passed, the thread will be reviewed by a mod/csm rep, and categorized to the following:threads that did not reach x amount of pages will be closed.threads that have will have the amount of support posts counted, and if said amount reaches over 50% of total posts, it will be escalated (i.e stickied or put in the \"important suggestions\" thread).threads that have not reached over 50% support will be deleted/closed.a list of all issues raised up will be made, and the amount of threads in each will be counted - if more than z amount of threads are made on a subject, it will be automatically escalated (if 100 threads are made on projectile weapons, a csm rep will have to consolidate all the ideas into one thread and sticky it).a new posting policy will be put into effect: player who wish to post a topic must have a well organized proposal/issue according to a format decided by the csm/mod team (perhaps intro, issue, suggestion, closing thoughts). this is to prevent walls of text and general whine threads that lead to nothing but flames.further, any reply made to a well formatted topic will have to have a reasoning behind it - no more just random \"supported\" or \"not supported\".[possibility] limiting posting to one char per account - also, limiting posting to being t months old and being in a corp alliance bigger than p members.[possibility] making each poster post his credentials, if applicable. i would take more heed to a topic/post by a known empire war deccer about wardeccing, that from a 0.0 player who never took part in said wars. however, this is not to say that ideas by people of no relation to the discussion field should be ignored, but we all come with a bias, and it be nice if we had that bias on the table and not hidden. also, all players must show corp/alliance tags.all posts must relate to the issue at hand, and not to the poster/his corp/whatever. trashing a privateer thread about neut alts rr just cause they also use it ingame is not a legitimate reason.[possibility] csm delegates getting forum mod rights on this forum - after all its their only way other than in-game to gauge the issues that the community has.a new sticky will be made in which the csm delegates can brief the players on what actions they are taking, and which issues they are raising up to ccp. keep the people who voted you in informed is one of the responsibilities of a \"politician\".these are my ideas for now, will add more as i come up with more / players post ideas to this thread.mash."
"i think this is overly complex, and pretty much unenforceable.getting rid of the out-of-date sticky threads and making it easier to find recent csm information (minutes and updates on individual issues) would be a better proposal, imo."
"i agree with this. unfortunately it's just about the only thing in your post i agree with.this is pretty much tripe. what you'll end up with is that ideas backed by alliances get passed, and those that aren't don't. that's called an oligarchy, and it generally disenfranchises the masses that feel like their voices don't count.and no to this as well. there are times when those responses are perfectly fine. if i agree with the ideas and arguments presented in the opening post, why shouldn't i just support those ideas instead of wasting everyone's time gushing on about what a good idea they are? i mean seriously, some of us have other things to do than read general butt-kissing.this is probably the worst suggestion in this post. so if we're not in a large corporation or alliance, we don't get a say in how the game is changing? go look up the definition of the word oligarchy.this isn't a scientific debate or a solicitation to legal/financial advice. if the op doesn't know what he's talking about, it will be painfully obvious to those of us who do, and we'll be more than happy to point out his errors in our own posts.i take back my earlier assertation. i also agree with this.having known players mod other players is asking for trouble and a customer service backlash. if the forum needs more moderators, let ccp get more.and i also agree with this - but i'd add that i'd like to have that thread occasionally responded to by ccp reps in a general sort of way so we can at least keep up with that they're actually looking into."
"this. de'v also hit the nail pretty square on the head too."
"if someone can pay concord to turn a blind eye (war dec) then why can't the corp that has been war dec'd pay concord to invalidate the war?there should be a fee for paying concord as there is about war dec'ing a corp.example: corp v corpcorp a war dec's corp b : 2 mil per weekcorp b pays concord to invalidate the war : 2 * initial war dec fee (4 mil)corp a really wants to war dec corp b : 2 * cancellation fee ( 8 mil)corp b really doesn't want to fight a war and pay concord again : 2 * war dec fee ( 16 mil)example: alliance vs alliancealliance a war dec's alliance b : 50 mil per weekalliance b pays concord to invalidate the war : 2 * initial war dec fee (100 mil)alliance a really wants to war dec alliance b : 2 * cancellation fee ( 200 mil)alliance b really doesn't want to fight a war and pay concord again : 2 * war dec fee ( 400 mil)and so on until one of the corps/ alliance's can't afford to pay the war dec or cancellation fee to concord. as you can see it very quickly becomes more expensive to either war dec the corp in question or invalidate the war dec.dec , cancel , dec , cancel ,dec , cancel , dec , cancel , dec , cancel , dec , cancel 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , 128 , 256 , 512 , 1024 , 2048 , 4096war dec fee cool down :create a reduction in war dec fee's or invalidation fees when corp b is not involved in any wars for 1 week. after 1 week war dec fees revert back to normal.hire merc'si hear people saying \"hire merc's \" but why can't the merc's be concord ? they bribed concord in the first place.create another isk sinkit won't end high sec wars but could exponentially increase the cost to do them. if someone really wants to grief a mining corp, or an industrial corp then they really should pay more than the token war dec fee that is in place now.imagine an alliance running 3 wars in high sec at the same, imagine the cost to maintain these wars if the other side were to pay concord to invalidate it."
"no support.imo you are trying to invalidate this game mechanic (placed in game by ccp) by targeting the weak side of the pirates, namely their wallet (making isk as a pirate isn't as easy as running l4 missions..) - however, as with any game mechanics, you always have counters - hiring a merc to defend you, paying the pirates to stop aggression, disbanding, fighting back (this is a pvp game you know).also, your suggestions will only make the griefers more zealous in their quest for carebear tears, while us legitimate pirates (who make isk from wars) will have to find another way to make isk. how about we remove mission running from the game? or make people pay concord a \"tax\" to look the other way when you engage poor minmatar rebels while doing amarr missions?to be blunt, this seems to be another ill formulated, ill thought out thread in the on-going question to ban any pvp/piracy/sandboxyness to nullsec, and making highsec a fairy lala land for carebears to run missions."
"while i agree that war decs need fixing, this is not the way to do it. the war dec system exists for a purpose, and while it does get misused a lot, i can't agree with a proposal that essentially reduces it to \"she who has the most money wins\"."
"you can't be serious right? to even consider this the cost to cancel the war must be ridiculously huge and it should go to the people who declared war."
"contrary to popular opinion... people war-dec people because they want to shoot them and blow them up.not because they want to get into a bidding war.not supported.war-dec system needs a total overhaul... this is the worst solution to that problem."
"i support the idea.i mean wardec defeats the purpose of hi sec. if ppl want to pvp, go to lo or null sec.leave us in hi sec alone to mine and build ships so others who want pvp do it away from hi sec."
"i will make the (possibly unfounded) assumption that you are not a troll.war decs don't defeat the purpose of high sec. they are (supposed to be) what insures that new corporations can take on existing ones for the resources of a given area."
"i'm going to assume your new to eve online... so listen up kid...high sec is supposed to be safer... not safe.but i'm not stupid enough to assume high sec belongs only to the carebears.high sec is simply that.... higher security but not maximum security.... that's for sure as hell.and that is why this will never come to pass... nor will the extreme polar opposite either.there will always be a balance struck... or there will be none at all."
"there is some merit to discussion of revising war dec /fees/ concords intervention/etc...but this is definitely not it"
"i do not support this because alek gets frustrated as is"
"this proposal is just wacky. no support."
"given up petitioning as it serves no point. tbh i think its ccp's policy for gm's to be this way so they never have to do jack."
"there's a lot of player support for some sort of reform in the gm system. i totally support this and i think that the issue needs a high priority in all the csm issues we submit for this term."
"supported ...i held off cuz i saw it was already on page 13 and thought this was an old thread and i missed the boat"
"hell yea i'll support this. i hate the \"our logs show nothing\". half the crap responses are unprofessional and insulting. things that would get anyone else fired from thier jobs! if they hate thier jobs so much they should go back to working at taco bell!"
"\o/"
"this topic really should get closed since there is a new and revised thread with much less emo and far better argumentation, supported by the original poster of this thread."
"locking thread to consolidate threads. please continue discussion in this thread."
"the fact that the game mechanics don't allow it? remember, realism is only one factor, and a secondary one at that. you could make the same argument about remote sensor boosters or remote eccm, but nobody claims those are too good. the reason people like rr is because while you don't need a 50k scan res, tanking 50k dps is quite useful. people use rr because it scales up by fleet size (and is the only form of tanking to do so), not because the individual module is more efficient."
"don't forget that if you fit one or more rr you'll have to drop weapons on certain ships cause they use your weapon slots. moreover you'll lose a mid slot as well, cause you'll want to fit an eccm module to prevent hostiles from breaking your rep. furthermore that rr will be running a long time whilst repping your friendlies. thus if we're doing a battles that last only 15 min, you'll be using a lot of cap that'll only go into helping other players."
"yes they do. modules that require people to work together should be far better then modules that do not. in addition to that, a high slot is worth alot...on many ships, that's a gun you're not fitting, and on others, it means not fitting a neut or something similar."
"i know you guys love to dismiss anything i say, but dismissing compliments as trolling has to be a new low."
"stop stretching the forums"
"i will raise gm competence issue. will make wiki tomorrow morning"
"when i get a chance to read through these donkey chokers of threads i'll knock something up."
"technically you dont need to. this issue was raised by bane glorious in csm1 so you can just ask ccp about an update (also see my recent csm mail regarding issues like this) :)"
"long before you even start talking about manual steering you should start talking about custom ranges for orbiting and keeping at range."
"if its pushed back further than i can't say i am not disappointed but i have been here for five freaking years so whats another couple.will love it when i get it and enjoy the rest of eve in the meantime!"
"well what do you think would be the best if you want to bring a heavy tackling frig instead of a fast one(ceptor)?the ceptor uses his speed and a low sig to envade damage(while the higher speed also makes him more likely to pin a target down). im not intending to make it as survivealbe as a ceptor(for pure sig/speed tank) but a bit stronger in this areas to give the ship a better performance in tackling by making it easier to stay under the guns. this wouldn<U+FFFD>t change mutch in the end if you get neuted, focused by a droneswarm or webed with multiple webs."
"i know what your saying, but i think the vengeance very strongly needs a second damage bonus, i think it should get a rof bonus for rockets to make it into a little sacrilege, combine that with actually fixing rockets and it would be a very nice little ship.it would be nice if the venge could go about 3kms though, but then your trying to muscle the jag and wolf out of there niche."
"supported"
"1. get pvp destroyer out of random boredom2. warp in belt3. die4. ???5. no profit"
"even if i love my fleet of salvagysts (salvage catalyst) the destroyers need a revamp and possibly a second t1 model."
"supported. would make ganking hulks with huge gangs of dessies even more fun"
"ooh, that's a brilliant idea! we need to be able to fit hawks with cow launchers! (\"feche la vache!\") they'd probably do more damage than rocket launchers anyway."
"bumping for rocket love!"
"yay thread derailment!ignorance is a lack of knowledge. i'm fully aware of whiny waitstaff arguments for tipping.1. you're right, because i prefer to be paid what i'm worth, not have to rely on the pity of people i'm hauling food and drinks to.2. i can afford to tip, and i do tip a minimum of 20%.. for those who earn it with superior service. and you know what? if you consistently go to a restaurant, and consistently tip great service, and blow off bad service... people catch on.3. they have to admit to the tips first before they can pay taxes on 'em. how many waiters can you name that only claim tips that are paper trailed via credit cards? i can name... well every waiter friend i've ever had.4. insults get you no where in a debate. you're ugly, obviously you're all about mandatory gratuities and cashing out, since pretty waiters get tipped more often and in higher amounts."
"it would be nice to see at least some activity on this issue from ccp."
"eve online uses wwise since apochribba. but you still have to properly code for it"
"already in game.they are called rigs.if you pretend there is people in them, your wing men may think you're insane, but i'm sure you'll feel more confident in your (and your crew's) abilities."
"not supported.i would love to see more realism in the game but this solution isn't one i support."
"very cool.would make eve feel more like a sci-fi mmorpg and less like a space simulator. i'd would love it."
"since we're all agreed that more dps = good and that consideration of game balance is bad, i would like to propose a 300% damage increase for sentries, for sentries to have their own 25 m3 drone bays, and the introduction of doomsday sentries."
"seeing the highly sarcastic response you got, it is apparent your proposal makes sense (why the hell are sentries the only t2 racial drones that don't require racial specialisation?) but you overlooked the effect that applying the specialisation skills to sentries would have. so i suggest implementing your proposal as written and additionally nerfing t2 sentry drone damage so that racial drone specialisation iv (the requirement) will restore it to its current level and rds v will give a small boost. can't say fairer than that."
"supported. it would create a reason to train amarr drone spec, too."
"noand supported op"
"supported.also, i support the idea of doomday sentries."
"yup, t2 sentries are definatively way too easy to train for atm.and they also most certainly need to be moar gooder!/supportninja edit: dd sentries are also welcome, needs rds lvl5"
"only if sentry base damage is nerfed by 5-10%."
"actually.... ;dhowever, i agree with op. i've been looking into buying a character, but all the names just make me /emo. please allow me the ability to change the name of xxamarrpvperxx to something that doesn't make me want to kick a puppy.edit: forgot to support"
"but kicking puppies is fun!"
"i agree, more pos designs would rock, could i suggest 3 ideas?one could be where you ahve to create the catacombs/base work of hte ship first sorta like hte atlantis citey ship in stargate or the huge command ship that was hte super stardestroyer from starwars, and like then the extra stuff like corporation officces, docking arrays and research facilities etc are built around and on top of it appropriately to keep it clean, then they could require it to be docked in orbit over a moon for it to function at full power for either production of it or shields to balance it out, and this would sorta look cool and clean allowing someone to pilot it.the second idea is sorta better, like individual ships can be constructed and devoted to a specific purpose like a research veessel and it either works on its own in flight or you have to dock it to other ships together and have them weilded together by the superstructure while parked thier to function at full power, that way it would be easier to have individual bases pop up since the power could be integrated into a single structure.or whatever you could just have a huge space station that sorta hovers thier with giant laser beams protecting it.... like the deathstar... whatever loli just like to day dream but yea maybe someone wil lilke those ideas"
"ok say to beat this further into the ground, you have a new type of ship bigger then a titan, a base ship, its basicly a giant hull, like massive sorta like wide and yet also long, and spread out, and then you could start with that then you could like install generators/towers of varying portians that would do the fuel processing, etc, and then you could have other sections which would be sorta standard, thier would be like weapons ports, sensor arrays, support structures, docking bays, and perhaps even like outer hull areas to accept motherships to land ontop of and bind ontop, adding its abilties to the base ship perhaps, even allowing titans to join up,etc. perhaps maintain the huge pos shields though but only allow em to function when synched in a orbit"
"this is what the titain was ment for, but ccp couldn't do it. saying that, these idea's deserve a topic of there own, they cant just be droped on top of this idea and expect them to float well. also it might be a good idea to format the text a little better. thanks for the ideas though, oh and bumped to page one."
"the csm will bring this item to iceland and discuss with ccp possible options to amend the situation. see the csm document on evelopedia."
"how bout confining this activity to w-space then?"
"so i need a password after i put in my password?what good's a password if you need the password's password to submit your password for authentication of the password's password?here's an idea: don't try to make the game companies responsible for customers' stupidity. if customers can't take the common sense approach to computer security, then they deserve to be keylogged, hacked, cleaned out, and banned."
"i agree with the op's assessment of the situation, but not his solution. isk is plentiful enough in the game as it is, without simply printing more of it./ben"
"can't believe i'm agreeing with a goon..."
"you're not going to believe this, but some guy who lives in 0.0 and rats to earn isk is on the forums saying that ratting in 0.0 should be buffed.can't imagine why he'd be saying such a thing though..."
"support for this."
"no support to this. boo to further consolidation and enrichment of existing 0,0 powerblocs through yet more pos construction. but i strongly agree with your analysis and the first part of your solution. lowsec and 0,0 need to become richer. the biggest problem with your solution is that it makes mining an even worse choice for a non-macro player. loot would rule the economy. but again, on balance i support. combining the first part of your proposal with a proposal to reduce mission loot (while keeping mission income the same, by increasing mission rewards) and i would enthusiastically support"
"not supported.enough money have 0.0.risk ? home system always blue. look local noobs.where is the most valuable minerals? where is gas ?where is commander items, wich have billion isk prices ? in 0.0, nowhere else. so please, stop the cries."
"heaven forbid that fighting over conquerable space should have some individual benefits for the players involved. lets all stay in highsec and run infinite l4s forever instead."
"supported.i think it's telling that despite living 99% of my eve life in 0.0, i don't make money there. i have a neutral l4 mission runner alt that i use to make my money. i've done straight comparisons, and the money available in l4 missions at no risk to yourself is unreal relative to what is available to the average player out in 0.0.any talk of 0.0 having tons of money because of moon minerals is stupid. the average player doesn't have the money or infrastructure to run a profitable moon mining chain.using officers as an argument is probably the worst counter argument to this yet. officers are just a big lottery, your chances of finding one are one in a million, and if you do, there is a very large chance you'll get a crap mod nobody wants. rarely does someone find a draclira's cap recharger, or one of the other multi-billion isk mods. for that matter, with people realizing it's really dumb to spend the money on that stuff to put on a titan or mothership that is just going to die if it gets tackled anyway, the demand for those crazy expensive mods is dwindling.ratting is the best way for the everyday player to go out and spend a few hours making money in 0.0. the problem is that it's simply not as profitable as the risk free l4 mission running available in high sec. if you have a well trained raven character, and another alt to loot and salvage all the wrecks, you can make a crazy amount of isk between salvage, loot, mission rewards and rat bounties."
"lets see. would i rathera) log in, run missions for 2 hours and make ~50m iskorb) log in, spend 6 hours clearing trash from belts in my harbinger/fighters combo and still not make 50m isk"
"supported."
"i wish ratting was more profitable."
"agreed."
"absolutely supported.i'd like to piggyback on this with the idea that faction mods should have random variable values that could make them a little worse or a little better than their lp store equivalents. would put potential value on them and make them a bit more interesting."
"hey look, a cogent and well argued idea based on the simple premise that greater risk should bring greater reward. let's do that."
"i am supporting this because it has always been my argument that risk should reflect reward.empire mission runners have no reason to leave highsec newbie corps. they can make as much if not more money than any 0.0 player with absolutely no risk, period.meanwhile my ratting system sees roaming hostile gangs as high as 40-70 people roll through it on a daily basis. (hello, triumvirate, brick squad, and leguina romana)please fix this."
"supporting this topic."
"supporting this topic."
"supported"
"i will raise this topic at the sunday csm meeting"
"in highsec you never have to stop mining or ratting if someone comes into local. in 0.0 you do. in highsec you never have to worry about your mining ship getting blown up, or your mission running cnr getting ganked. in 0.0 you do. these have drastic affects on isk per hour. not to mention if you do get ganked, your isk:hour plummets to compensate for a new ship.afk-mining veldspar in highsec is safer and more profitable than ninja-mining high ends in 0.0. gas is worthless because drugs are used by a tiny fraction of people. and the logistics to manufacture drugs is obscene.the drop rate for officer spawns is microscopic compared to the number of people living in 0.0. the average ratter living in nullsec may well never see an officer spawn for the entire time they play eve.and yet, nullsec players have to constantly live with fighting for their territory. while you merrily pilot l4 missions in empire with no fear of safety, most nullsec players spend a good portion of their time defending their homeland instead of making money (which involves, gasp, losing ships and therefore money). and when they do have time to make money? they have to put up with options that are worse than l4 missions in highsec or multiboxing veldspar mining hulks. why should nullsec players be forced to endure the stupid pos grind and fleet fights only for mediocre money making opportunities?supporting this heartily. a buff is needed for all nullsec players."
"supported"
"you should probably read the op before you try responding to it."
"yes, clearly the merits of an idea depend on who is proposing it."
"i'll support this because i'd too would like to see \"true\" security status fixed.i'd also ask that you add one thing to your change: faction complex escalations never escalate to systems outside regions inhabited by that faction. i.e. gurista complexes having this stupid habit of escalating to systems out in drone regions."
"the only part i disagree with is increasing the chances of faction and officer spawns. the main effect of that would be to crash the market for faction items and reduce the reward for finding such a spawn, which does nothing to make 0.0 ratting more attractive as it puts us right back where we started.instead, make the spawns bigger. there's a current cap of up to 6 rats per spawn with up to half of those being battleships (although very occasionally the rats are bugged and put two spawns in the same belt) but there's really no obvious reason why for the higher-end truesec this couldn't be increased to 8 or 10 or even more and/or with the 'only half battleships' limit removed. warping into a belt and being confronted by 10 angel seraphim or blood popes would not only make 0.0 ratting more lucrative, it would liven up the experience significantly."
"i don't like the spatial vortex generator idea, though i'm not able at the moment to articulate exactly why i feel that way. the other measures i would support, along with a measure to have the client display truesec without needing to consult a third party application. if nothing else it would expose the more broken regions (in both directions) and increase the likelihood that they get fixed/rebalanced.(yes i am aware that this means delve, and yes i'm aware that this means less money for me.)"
"ccp should conduct a more in-depth study of profit margins for level 4 missions in high sec and 0.0 ratting. they should examine at least 1000 hours spent doing both activities and see how the revenues compare. then they should do same comparison of the losses, to calculate net profit.theoretically, 0.0 hunting should be more profitable than high sec mission running. if the results of study show that to be true, then we know with some certainty that no major changes needed to be done. but if it is proven that 0.0 hunting is less than or equal to high sec, then some kind of action is definitely needed.as it is now, without hard numbers, we have to rely on stories of other people. and while we could calculate approximate income levels for different activities, the reality often deviates from theory. only ccp can get the hard data.and as concerned player, your best option is not to push brand new ideas, but to push ccp to get that hard data and share with community, so educated suggestions can be made for game balance."
"do this."
"i support this."
"awesome idea!"
"you have my support."
"i forgot to give the little thumbs up."
"i'd disagree that highsec mission running is the most profitable pve activity in the game.wormhole space is definitely where it's at, folks, and that's everywhere. the way i see it, highsec is space for solo players, lowsec is a bit of a mix and 0.0 is where the alliances play. solo activities should not be even comparatively profitable out in 0.0 because that's not what you're there for in the first place.if you have the player infrastructure set up, you should be running exploration sites and class 3+ wormholes for your isk. it's more fun, a better, less-boring way to spend time and makes you loads of cash.you make good points and have good solutions, but there is absolutely no reason you should not be running wormholes. any class 3 wh can be cleared with 3 remote rep bs and a salvager/hacker/analyzer. i've been on wormhole ops that have brought in over 3.5billion isk split 10 ways and for only a few hours work."
"i suggested it as a way to still make \"good\" or \"great\" truesec still matter. in any case, understand that there already is no limit on faction items in this game. you can receive a limitless number of missions in empire (albeit only one at a time per agent), and nothing prevents individuals from \"crashing the market\" by creating faction items through the lp stores. there isn't even a limit on how many items you can buy within a given time period. the only limits in place are requiring appropriate faction tags easily obtained by looting them in the missions generating the lp to begin with.as i noted when i mentioned officers in my original post, there is too much information i don't have to ensure i'm making a sound suggestion. there's also the human behavior to consider.one poster mentioned above that while they agreed with my analysis, they didn't agree with my solution as it amounted to adding more isk to the game. that isn't necessarily true. while a macro ratter is going to be on 23/7, many players who rat in 0.0 do so to achieve a specific goal - often to fund pvp activities or their dream of flying a capital ship, developing a production business, you name it. if it takes those people 6 hours to 100m isk, and the resultant changes mean they can now earn that in 3 hours, are all or even many of them going to continue to rat the same amount of time? probably not.doubling or tripling spawn rates doesn't mean double or triple will be harvested. it only means that is the new potential maximum.if this, what i propose, or another solution is adopted to improve casual isk generation activities in lowsec or 0.0, i'll consider my proposal a success. however, i hope ccp takes care to avoid simply re-vamping exploration.the main point of my proposal is to give a solo pilot a means to earn just as much or more in a casual 0.0 activity as he or she can earn in high sec doing a level 4 mission. the moment you have to gang up with someone, spend 30 minutes or more finding a suitable location (whether pruning belt spawns or scanning and probing for cosmic anomalies), you're at a big disadvantage to that npc corp member who never ventures 3-4 jumps beyond a mission hub."
"i've spent billions of isk on 0.0 warfare over the years, and i haven't ratted seriously since '07. all my 0.0 activities are financed by my risk-free highsec moneymaking, i've invested billions of isk and countless hours into alliance level pvp for no personal gain. i've tried every nullsec moneymaking scheme, ratting, mining, faction hunting, exploration, import/export, production, and even moon mining, nothing compares to the isk:effort ratio of empire space. i'd love to be able to log in, shoot stuff for an hour and make some money without spending hours pruning cruiser spawns in -1.0 trusec."
"hmmm... sounds great! and, since i fly solo in amamake area, and suffer far greater risk than you do with your blobs and intel channels, then by your argument i should be making about... what? ten-times your isk?right? pathetic little 0.0 players... fighting so hard to extend your e-peen and yet always trying to make life easier for yourselves."
"wormholes may be great but it's a seperate point from the issue of isk generation on the individual level in 0.0 systems. life in 0.0 is hard. there's risk. there's work. there is uncertainty. there is more work. carving out a life as an individual can be miserable in 0.0. for all the work and risk there should be a reward. current mechanics only incentivize 0.0 for huge alliances who can defend their moon mining towers on valuable moons with a big ass dread fleet. other than a hope that the wealth will trickle down, there really isn't much reason for a grunt to live in 0.0. he's arguably better off running missions in highsec and only going out to 0.0 when his alliance has to siege or defend some towers. this really is a bad policy and isn't leading to anyone having more fun in space."
"not sure about the specific mechanisms proposed for making low/null-sec more profitable, but i certainlly have been annoyed lately by how much more isk i can making doing hisec l4s than nullseccing.\"boredom pays\" is not a great game mechanic.supported."
"i'm often impressed by the lack of interest people show about finding out actual facts of the matter. even ccp often just don't care enough to bother data mining. decisions are mostly made on basis of personal preference. for example, if we just looked at hard facts, nano nerf probably wouldn't happen the way it did"
"this is the most ridiculous argument i've heard in a while. but i understand where your bizarre assumptions are coming from. you assume that given a wide swath of choices, player will always choose the same \"best\" option for their ship.so, lets say on an interceptor, as you said, everyone will put speed rigs, and so everyone will be the same.right...just to make things clear - i'm not trolling. but saying giving frigates more options makes them the same is pretty stupid. i mean, just take the interceptor for example. what rigs would you likely put on them?-warp speed +-speed + -scan res +-damage +-tracking +-resistance +-agility +i could go on, but i think you get my point. if some idiot just wants an inty to quickly fly between dodixie and jita, he might fit it differently than a guy who is gate camping for war targets or a pod popper enthusiast. cheaper rigs will allow this type of specialization in cheaper ships.we might actually see t1 frigates become useful.well, that last sentence was kind of a lie unless its a rifter, but you get me.edit:i just got on the test sever and examined the rigs myself. they will be the biggest isk sink ever. you are right - fitting rigs now will be more common then it is now, but you have to think that these will be going on paper-thin ships.so now every frigate that goes down will cost 2-5 million without tech two fittings. this is a better isk sink then medals and implants combined.not only that, but i'm dumbfounded by the options you have with ships now. your ships may have bonus' and a role this way, but you can lean it any way you want now that rigs are so much cheaper. salvaging will actually become a real profession, as 2-5 armor plates is now enough to create a frigate rig. the only thing i really worry about is balance issues - this may give too much oomph, as you put it, to ships that already have a lot of it. we'll see though. definitely a welcome development."
"i don't agree with you yaay but i'm not entirely sure i like the idea of basically free rigs for frigates. obviously they will become mandatory, but what is worse, instead of them making currently weaker frigates more capable of exerting their niche, it'll just exaggerate the more popular frigs strong points to imbalance. uber-tanked passive merlins, huge buffered punishers, interceptor-fast vigils, crazy-gank incursuses...and whatever else people conjour up.so yeah, i'm just worried free/very cheap rigs will create horribly op cookie-cutter builds on the classes of ships that should be having their flexibility emphasised."
"i don't agree, anything that helps make pvp cheaper for new players, and lessens the performance gap between new players and old is a good thing. rigs should not cost 100x the cost of the hull"
"this is in no way an isk sink. isk sinks mean money is removed from the game. this money is not removed, it is transfered."
"how does this make pvp cheaper for younger players. 1 they have to train more skills just to rig. 2 they have to buy said skills. 3 they have to buy even more equipment, which everyone else flying the same class ship will be buying now too. it won't make pvp cheaper, it'll make it more difficult for young players."
"yep, it is time to grow with your clientele..... get support to your customers like a they deserve. generic answers are so lame."
"finally someone speaks up. i hope that ccp will not just ignore this like they did in the past for similar issues."
"strongly disagreeing with this idea. i think they need good old fashioned quality over quantity. the problem with giving players bull**** replies is they just reply back, often padding out their original petition with more information that isn't really neccesary and adding all kinds of meta-arguments to explain why their problem is important, then getting into debates with the gms about the petition itself. if the original gm who replied to the petition was competent and properly incentivised to just resolve it as quickly as possible (and if he can't immediately then spend time learning how to) there'd be a decrease in the number of petitions that need replies. then all the useless gms that mostly just type 30 second replies and take pleasure in watching their victims squirm can be layed off.yes more good gms are needed, but more gms please no. the gm stress i'm sure is a mirror image of the player stress that comes from dealing with the bad apple gms on a daily basis.the worst effect of bad gms is when they make a bad descion and for whatever reason the more competent ones decide to back them up and present a unified front. this seems (anecdotally) to happen much less than it used to, which is perhaps an acknowledgement by the whole department that they are lumbered with so many non-serious gms that it's impossible to hide it anymore."
"so i've been docked for the last week waiting for a gm response after the initial auto-faq bot reply.will i get a refund for that week?"
"i support this. i have had both bad and good gm's my experience tends to vary. although i will admit, alot of the answers i get are copy-pasted responses, and that really makes me mad. it is almost like they didnt want to put forth the effort to write something. it honestly makes me a little crazy sometimes.but there are the good times too."
"support"
"respect!"
"supporting this cause lets be honest,90% of the gms suck"
"support"
"support"
"pro"
"support"
"while everyone else is *****ing...don't leave me out. i have something nonconstructive to say!so here i am posting in the sh!ttiest thread to grace the assembly hall in quite some time. (ibtl)seriously, you honestly believe that anyone will listen to you cry? you got to be pretty ****ing ******ed. the only guy that reads these forums is mitnal, and that's just to ban turds like me. (i'd like to take this chance to say **** you in advanced for the warning).oh, and csm is ******ed and pointless. as if taking a plane to ccp headquarters and talking to them in person will suddenly make them understand all our problems. lol, thats great - internet spaceships representatives. you fail at life for the betterment of our collective entertainment.and ccp? i heard they were a feature, or was it a bug. or perhaps it was just epic fail.tl:dr; nobody gives a ****. ccp and regular people included. csm, ccp, gms, and isds should gdiaf.execpt for larkonis, he's cool. watch out lark, don't get any fail sauce on you.edit:thumbs up for a good belly laugh."
"seriously, at least say something like \"i agree\"you guys look like a bunch of ****ing alts."
"i forgot to throw my thumbs up in this new thread"
"wery nice post absolutly supporting this one !!!!"
"i endorse this product and or service."
"sorry i want to support this but my keyboard shows nothing"
"supported"
"suport for this"
"yes"
"supported"
"vote 4 this!"
"yes"
"the system needs to cleaned up and made transparent. while i'm all for protecting privacy - the lack of transparency leads to the perception of misuse (in many cases the correct perception unfortunately). train them, teach them the rules and hold them accountable to the rules no matter what the level of gm. if it is big issue - unless you have a super-majority of gms agreeing with the change - don't do it."
"supporting this one too!"
"can't remember the last time i filed a petition due to the gm's not having a clue, thus i fully endorse this"
"supported"
"a black box process. you give them information they give you a stock reply and no information whatsoever in return."
"seeing how the \"other\" thread got locked and this one sums the points up quite nicely, here goes my support."
"supported, again..."
"the only problem with insurance is the use of base prices. make it market price based, so that you lose 30% when your ship goes boom, and you get rid of a lot of this nonsense. he read it on the forums, it must be true!"
"there is no proof that inflation in eve economy at all (indeed it seems eve economy has been largelly deflationary until recentlly), but insurance is a cause of inflation because it adds money to the system while the destruction of a ship removes goods from the system."
"insurance is a isk faucet not an isk sink.you get isk for free without doing any work for it.you have produced nothing , yet there is more money in your wallet hence more money in the economy.maybe i worded it badly , to be more exact insurance is an inflationary pressure on the economy.it also places a floor on the value of ships at ( insurance payout - insurance premium ).1.buy ship2.insure ship3.undock4.self destruct5.profitif people had to mine or mission run + loot + salvage to earn there iskies.the result would be more minerals/salvage/loot available per unit currency.with the floor also removed prices of t1 ships would be free to drop and find a new level.you might not complain so hard if your new mega cost you 20m isk with less money in the economy ( wallets ) and cheaper t1 ships and cheaper minerals more people would choose t1 ships and gear over t2 and hence with less demand t2 prices would start dropping also."
"lots of t2 stuff is already sold with no or nearly no profit due to the \"stuff i can get myself is free and doesnt cost anything\" folks.so you want to push the prices below material costs?"
"insurance is flawed... but not to the point of being unmanageable.ship prices will never go below the payout, as has been stated. if you can buy a ship, insure it, and blow it up for a net profit... that's called insurance fraud.the solution is to remove instant insurance payments. there doesn't need to be an actual insurance adjuster involved... just a set of rules that have to be satisfied before payment it rendered.1) was the destruction self-inflicted (self-destruct / bomb aoe)?2) was the destruction concord inflicted?3) was the destruction corp/alliance inflicted?i'm sure there are some more conditions that could be stated, but here's a few.did you do it to yourself? if so, you don't get paid. did you sucker punch someone so concord would do it for you? if so, you don't get paid. did you have a corpmate do it so you could cash in extra isk for the corp? if so, you don't get paid.sure, it's still pretty wide open to abuse. but these are the primary means available, which should no longer be.the same could be applied to bounties, which would go far to correct that system as well."
"the only way they could make insurance work is by copying how car insurance works in real life.- you would have to pay a monthly premium to insure a ship.- the higher the premium the more coverage you get (currently as it is).- if you don't insure your ship, you get nothing if it's destroyed.- different ship types would have different premiums ratios (i.e. an assault frigate is more likely to see action more often than an industrial so the premium should be higher in proportion to its market value).- the amount of isk received as coverage should be the average market value of the ship in the region you purchased the ship from, and not the base cost of the ship (which is a static value).i would also like to see corporation owned insurance. for example, if a corporation builds ships for its members, the isk received from the insurance should go to the corporation wallet, and not the member's."
"we already have non-insurable ships in the game, and the people not up playing stupid empire games (aka not privateer alliance) fly them. they're called t2 ships, look in to them.the rest of your argument is completely flawed and based on some assessment that people fly battleships because they are insurable. this is a fallacy. people fly battleships because they bring firepower and survivability to the battle field. people throw around non-insurable t2 ships without a care in the world, what makes you think messing with the insurance payout on battleships would make them do anything different with those? a sniper bs costs about what a well fit hac costs, give or take 30m here or there.insurance exists to keep people in the game, and keep them in ships. if you think ccp is going to tweak this much, and risk losing subs, you're crazy. when people have enough money that they don't care about losing ships anymore, they start flying the non-insurable variety. there is a natural, self-paced progression to losing expensive ships with no safety net, and it works perfectly fine."
"insurance in game should be more like rl. you pay every 1/3/6/12 months, you have a long ass list of things you can't have done to get paid for your accident, rates fluctuate based upon your driving record (ship losses), and their customer service sucks.as long as they don't include 'illegal modifications' or 'driving while under the influence' (boosters) then yeah, why not.. actually, no.. screw it... boosters void your insurance, rigs void your insurance, t3 voids your insurance... what else?you don't get your isk for another 6-8 weeks (make that days in game) after the accident.upon ship loss you have to report it to your insurance agent and wait around 3hrs for the ****er to show up and take pics of the scene.your record also determines the cost of insurance for all your ships.oh and the fun part, insurance is absolutely mandatory for all t1 ships in high sec, passing through a high sec system without insurance will get you pulled over (web/scrammed at gate/station) and cited."
"i can't support this concept because the above statement doesn't match with the alliance name. you hate pvp yet are in the main corp in privateer alliance? there's an oxymoron if ever there was one."
"eve insurance has very little in common with real insurance, otherwise it would have been much tougher on the player. and after a couple insured ship losses insurance company would simply refuse to give you anyso if it's clear that insurance was not meant to make eve more realistic, why is it here? i suppose it is here to minimize the pain of losing ships. but things have changed over the years. it's true that 4 years ago, losing a battleship was a pain - at least as much as a hac now. but in this day and age, isk has become easy. people suiciding their battleships right and left, 1 month old noobs flying ravens everywhere even 0.0..the crutch is no longer needed. it dilutes the game's seriousness. at the very least, battleship insurance has to go."
"insurance is almost certainly the second largest source of isk from outside the game (note, not source of wealth, but of liquid isk) so it it increase inflation. at the same time it keep the prices of minerals up, as to many players think that what they mine or get from reprocessed loot is free and are willing to sell at every price. without the mineral price floor created by insurance ships would be even cheaper and minerals worth very little. so probably insurance will never be removed as it is one of the checks against making mining a dead profession. about your return from missions, the problem is that the isk you invest in your mission ship have a great impact on your returns. and the ship you use too. \"cheap\" ship with named modules could easily mean a 25% cut in mission gains, non missile spewing caldari could mean another 25% or more cut."
"i propose changing the damage accumulation property of crystals to a shatter chance property.in use a faction or t2 crystal would not take any damage.but there would instead be a chance that it could shatter and be competelly destroyed.a crystal that has 1000 shots normally would have a 1/1000 chance of shattering instead.pros.no more damaged crystals that wont stack.no more damaged crystals that cant be put into contractsno more problems selling amarr ships in contracts with dodgy crystalscon.need to carry back up crystals.would this be a worthwhile change ?started a new thread which doesnt use randomness"
"."
"i suppose, in the long run, it would make sense.crystals are about the only things in eve that show \"wear and tear\".used ships don't reflect \"mileage\", don't require regular maintenance, and generally don't age and decay over time. the very first frigate ever built would still fly as fast as a frigate fresh off the production line.so it would simplify matters considerably if crystals were more chance based instead."
"can you help me collect the missiles i have been shooting to reuse them?"
"."
"not supported. you'll end up with crystals shattering on their very first shot. crystal damage is a much better mechanic; you know you'll get some use out of the damned thing."
"the difference being missiles are designed to explode. a missile that explodes and is thus unrecoverable is working as intended."
"i'm not going to support this, and i'll tell you my logic (it's rp logic, but whatever).in the early days of energy based weapons i could see you having crystals that shattered on the first shot - they were simply dodgy crystals, they had a minute flaw in it somewhere, whatever.however, as the weapon technology advanced, i would expect that crystal technology would also have advanced to keep pace. and as that technology develops, you learn how to better tune crystals, or even manufacture them yourself so you can precisely control their characteristics. this in turn leads to crystals with a predictable decay rate, which is what you have now.tl;dr: no. this doesn't need to be changed"
"nono one would use them as they'd be too unreliable.also paying over 2m/crystal for a chance that it breaks on the first shot? no thanks.i've heard plenty better suggestions for dealing with damaged crystals."
"to quote someone\"stop whining\"seriously... i've been mining with tech 2 deep core strip miners along with the associated mining crystals and i've never had any trouble keeping things straight.and they work on the same basic system that laser crystals would. all i had to do was make sure i loaded used instead of new when i switched things out.if i can do it.. you can do it.this proposal smells of cheese and crackers.... not supported."
"it would be nice because that way you can just resell your old t2 and faction crystals. its a real pain to have a ton of them lying around that you can't sell."
"not supporting because it would make crystals too unreliable in pvp."
"you'll also have crystals that last 5000 shots and are still as good as new. can be contracted. can be sold on market. can be contracted as part of an old amarr ship you no longer have use for .etc etc.like it says in the cons list , you will have to carry a few spare crystals.isnt that worth it to have crystals that can stack be traded ?"
"on average they would last as long as they do now, only issue would be carrying spares."
"rp wise , faction / t2 are high performance crystals handling vast amounts of energy.there made as perfect as possible to the point where no flaws are detectable. but undetcctable flaws remains. meaning they can go at any moments.such is the price for ultimate performance.a bit like the f1 cars of yesteryear."
"when the server decides a crystal pops , if there are spares in the hold it takes one of those.no need to stop lasers firing.there are cons as well as pros.if your happy with vast quantities of unstackable damaged crystals cluttering up your hangar you are right to not look for solutions."
"have wanted this feature soooo many times. just show the fitting in the info window like when you are piloting the ship.showing module damage in this screen would also be a neat addition."
"so supported.a way to strip the fitting of a ship without having to board it would be nice as well tbh.and repackage doesn't count, i like my rigs.edit: for checking the gorram box."
"holy crap make this happenthe amount of times i've looked in my assets window and thought 'hmm, is that battleship i have in station [x] the half-fitted one, the ratting fit or the rigged fleet sniper? if only there was a way to tell remotely...'"
"fix!"
"you get my vote - but i honestly think your just waste your time. i've yet to see anything csm do that have changed the game for the better that ccp wouldn't have fixed anyway, so if they still ignore \"old\" issues players been buggering about for years, they will not care about this either."
"the issue is definitely two fold.1. projectiles (primarily large projectiles)2. the tempest itselflarge projectiles are just wrong. autocannons and artillery both have dps issues (acs, fighting in falloff is lol, arty clip size and falloff combo is beyond subpar)the tempest has a terrible slot layout for the game that eve has become. once upon a time you could fit an ecm here, a nos there, and have a skimpy active tank to last the battle. 1000 nerfs have come and gone and this ship was long left in the dust unable to compete. -split slots leave half assed tanks in the day of buffer tanks-double damage bonus that adds up to a ship that deals less damage than it's peers- a speed nerf that left what was to be the hit and run races flagship stuck in the mud. -it's versatility that is preached about is useless in modern eve where only a specialized ship will stand toe to toe w/ one of its own class and/or fit into a properly organized gang. this was a support ship in the days when almost all ships were support ships. today it is not only outclassed across the races both long range and short range, it is outclassed by its own brothers. there isn't one task the the tempest can do that the typhoon or maelstrom can't do better. the ship has no role, no niche and no use other than nostalgia and yarrr appeal. how did this come to be? ask ccp. what little responses we have received on the topic have been touchy feely iffy crap. \"i think...\" \"i feel..\" no numbers, no explanation, no elaboration. players across eve have discussed and argued the 100 different ways you can approach both the issue of projectiles and the tempest. graphs and calculations fall on deaf ears. ccp obviously doesn't know what to do with the ship and they possibly may not even understand the damn thing. it reminds me of the naglfer in so many ways. we all saw how the naglfer went, in the end it got some changes, but just a bit of duct tape and chewing gum (but hey, it was something!). a proper change for the tempest seems in line but since it takes developers 9000 years to add a turret to a ship model i'm not holding my breath for any big changes (provided ccp even addresses the issue)in this post i tried to not rant too much, but it's hard not too. i stopped being able to discuss this ship and it's weapons systems rationally and calmly months ago. it's a bad joke and i post here more out of support of the thread than with any expectation this is going to go anywhere. good luck guys!"
"yes - getting to be a joke for large projectile systems."
"signed"
"i think the pg needs of artillery should be reduced allowing for the tempest to fit a full rack of 1400's plus tank with no rcu ii. although since this is mainly a problem with the tempest, perhaps the pg of the tempest could be increased.ac's more range(a lot), and more dps. artillery, buff a few of these to fulfill a vision, as opposed to just being an inferior weapon system like it is now.. more range, more tracking, more dps, more alpha, larger clip."
"posting to support the people fighting the good fight. if a mate asked you what race to train for bs wise would you ever say minnie? if so you are a bad friend."
"thumbs"
"overwhelmingly support."
"no, i need something to steal."
"supported, either in killmail, or gleaned from scooping the corpse."
"not supported.wheres my not supported tick box?"
"this was meant to be a positivist constructive thread, that's why it's missing. still: you can always put your \"not supported\" comment. though some reasonings should be welcome."
"this has got to be in here somewhere, because it is such an annoying and ridiculous issue, but i looked and looked and searched the csm website ... nothing.so, probably for the millionth time:make bpcs and bpos look different in item display!! bpos don't even always sort to end or beginning, sometimes they are hidden somewhere in the middle of 20+ identical icons. just put some little t2-like tag on them or make them a slightly different colors or whatever, but for eve's sake, make them somehow different!"
"warp to 0km brought back a **lot** of players who had quit.warp to 15km was a useless time-sink that most players saw as just plain rudeness from ccp."
"eve online, the only game where the players complain that there isn't enough soul-destroying tedium!"
"i've considered it great fun warping to 15km with hostile fleets in host pursuit, not tedious one bit unless your a hauler. its pretty much substituted by diction bubbles these days. still i miss warp to 15 by default."
"your definition of \"great fun\" just proves you are ******ed"
"look post 24 and the secnes quote and think about it."
"i needed to search for the complete thread to understand what secnes wanted to say. i think, it is the \"multi-invention/manufacturing slot\" argument, means: an inventor can outperform an owner of a single bpo because he can create many bpcs in multiple invention slots and manufacture parallel in 10 production slots and therefore make more profit in a certain time frame than the bpo owner who can only use one slot due to his single bpo, isn't it?well, it's still a question of available capital. if you have 100b and buy a hulk bpo for 100b this would be stupid because you don't have any money anymore to do something in your other 9 manufacturing slots. if you have 200b it is still better to buy a hulk bpo for 100b and do invention/manufacturing with the remaining 100b in your other 9 slots. the pure inventor cannot beat you. and this is also valid if you only have 110b because you don't need to buy invention materials for 100b at once, you can buy for 10b, invent, produce in 9 slots, sell, buy again from your revenues, and so on...but the question does not exist for most of us because of the missing capital.we are a bit away from the original question if t2 bpos press the prices and profit down for inventors. my opinion is still: no. but not because buying a bpo and producing from it is less profitable than invention but only because the number of bpos is limited and they cannot cover by far the demand on the market. if we had 20 or 30 times as many bpos as today in the game covering the complete demand my answer would be: yes. since they were all sold (enough people with enough isk in game) and producing from t2 bpos is simply cheaper than invention."
"ok, i'm back on this with another thought... why are invented bpc's so crappy by default??? -4, -4 that is. if invented bpcs were not so sucky in their default me, i'd have no issue with the bpos at all. 0,0 for invented bpcs would be fine, with the decryptor me/pe mods increased a bit. (since the difference between me 0 and me 1 is pretty irrelevant)yes, this would whack the prices of some of the decryptors, but i own plenty of them and i don't care if the price got whacked if inventing improved.it'd likely whack t2 bpo prices a bit as well. \"gee, why's that??\""
"to compensate the limited parallelism of bpos?if you want to bring up copying them. look at the copy time."
"saw this mentioned in another thread, and thought it deserves it's own. why is it that invented bpcs need to have the horrible default me/pe of -4/-4 ? 0/0 seems like a much better default.-4/-4 feels like some sort of outdates holdover from the immediate-post-lottery days. for many modules, it doesn't really make a lot of difference, but it would make inventing smaller ships a lot more palatable.the only reason i can see for -4/-4 is to protect t2 bpo owners who are selling on the market, and all the arguments seem to have been that there is an insignificant amount of that going on anywhow..."
"simply put, the forums are in bad shape in general, and caod in particular is completely useless because content is drowned out completely by trolls, flames,and flat out \"noise\" posts.first off, i propose that the moderators get serious about enforcing the \"main character only\" rule, and in deleting/dealing with people who post there only to generate noise.this could possibly be made easier if ccp, in the upgrade to the forums were to implement mechanics that required you to \"select\" only your real main character. this would happen this way: the server would weight your characters by these attributes, in this order:1. is the character in an alliance?2. is the character in a non npc corporation?3. which character has the highest number of sp?to discourage misbehavior, the punishment for creating noise on the caod forum needs to be severe, and have quick and devastating consequences for repeat offenses, to the level of severity as to provide a very strong deterrent to willful misbehavior. i propose the punishment scale like this:1st offense: warning.2nd offense: 7 day ban from forums.3rd offense: 30 day ban from forums, 7 day game account ban.4th offense: 180 day ban from forums, 30 day game account ban.5th offense: permanent ban from forums, 180 day game account ban.6th offense: permanent from the game.with punishments like that, people who post on these forums in general and caod in particular for no reason other than to disrupt discussion, to troll, to generate noise will find themselves removed first from the forums, and then from the game if they persist.i would appreciate it if someone on the csm would take up this issue.thank you for your time."
"u mad?anyway, caod is dead. while the place has always been a remarkable example of human behaviour it's continued to go downhill ever since.but instead of all sorts of wierd authority angles to guide or force human behaviour, which is a remarkable failure in real life so why should it work in a virtual setting, why should we even bother with trying to control it.it's much more use to focus on things which can be worthwhile, and leave people with mental deficits their own little sandbox. ccp's recent hints at a battle database, but also shc's strict focus on battlereporting spring to mind. recently there was another neat initiative for a battle database thing which together with shc seems to be an interesting example for some ccp thinking on the matter.let's be honest. caod is the toilet of eve. leave the toilet to those who enjoy the ****, but make the effort for a focus on quality information management via other methods. if that has to be outside of the eve site, so be it."
"how about requiring all caod posts to come from a new 0.0 system with special complex, you have to warp to it, open its interface at 2500 m, and type in your thread.if anyone shoots you - well, defend or die :-)"
"that idea is so bad it is actually interesting enough to feel a sense of enthusiasm for."
"considering the hilarious inconsistency of decisions made by the caod mods, allowing them to apply in-game as well as forum bans in anything but the most extreme cases is a spectacularly terrible idea."
"right now the current system in place is that if there is a need to reinforce a node, you have to go to the following page and fill out the form:"
"in spite of being awfully close to launching their own skynet, ccp does not have unlimited hardware node reinforcing requires bits and pieces of the good hardware, the pink stuff.so, from what i remember from some devblog the hamsters at world operations handle these node reinforcement requests, which is probably where all the confusion comes from regarding the hamsters.on a sidenote, tbh i would actually make x64 drama excempt from reinforcing nodes. make it as bad an experience as possible, just for the sake of experience.but that is probably a very different debate.btw, if people forget to fill in a form, that is their own fault. not ccp's. besides, there are plenty times (tbh it is becoming pretty much standard) where leaderships fake information to their own members for the sake of \"roleplaying\" (spygames) but quite often and especially in defensive scenarios they claim to file for reinforcing the node but just don't do it. why? because it is easier to suck up something when you can blame ccp, and it is easier to face odds when you can dictate how many players you can pump into an unreinforced node so that any hostile forces really have very little chance of making a dent the current system leaves a degree of responsability with the players, while allowing for screwups as well as tactics using the system. if that is cool, keep it as it is until infiniband or something arrives. if those parts aren't cool, maybe then changes might be needed. but you still face inherent limitations."
"not gonna happen....the only way you'll get what you want is if they enforce all nodes throughout the entire game.in a sense.. total overhual of hardware.and i doubt they will do that in the near future unless they come onto some major profits.auotmating a system as you claim is not as simple as it sounds.there are factors that have to be tested... and constantly checked...which take time and cpu load to do.... compounded with it checking any number of hundreds of systems... variables... conditions.you could trigger \"said\" event just by having a sudden shift of 500 pilots going from point a to point b.... or someone just for kicks re-enforces a pos when there is no battle to be had.alliance wars are not predictable... you may forsee something happening... but its never going to happen as you plan it to be.automating a system like that is so mind boggleing you'd need to make a leap to some sort of super ai (poke poke skynet fun) to be able to gauge said response.i don't program... but i know enough to know that what your asking for is nigh impossible at this current time.now if ccp overhauls all the systems or dedicates a portion of the cluster to 0.0 space or something... then its no question.but there's just too many things to track.we humans are not as predictable as machines... except for our predictable urge to destroy :)"
"no it's not. i'm not asking for the nodes to be reinforced via some programing means (well in the sense you were talking about). all you would look at is if a sov holding or r64 moon is in reinforced mode. if so the form could be automatically generated and the person in charge would go about his work of reinforcing the node. that's it. all it is, is automatically filling out that form and improving the end user experience instead of subjecting them to a frame by frame slideshow where they were actually dead minutes ago."
"why would the moon goo crowd get automated special treatment. just think about it. as opposed to faction warfare, lowsec, w-space groupies, heck even jita or rens.i'm sorry, but your \"proposal\" comes down to a case of \"we the x64 endgame content kings have more right to a better gaming performance then others\".so, that argument being shot down, i am curious what other arguments you have. don't misunderstand me, i may seem rude, but i'm actually quite interested in a proper argumentation."
"regardless... as you obviously lack the experience to understand such complicated concepts...the same thing applies... a system would have to be created to watch... monitor.. predict..calculate....it's not as simple as a if then else statement....not when it comes to things of eve online."
"i think its more a case of \"reinforced nodes are needed for big fights, and one of the surest ways to cause a big fight is by shooting an alliance's r64s\", plus the fact that the tower is (usually) stronted far enough ahead that ccp can prepare the node in time, and that with a tower, you know the location and approximate time that the fight is most likely to happen. obviously 2 big fleets bumping into each other in lowsec isn't necessarily something that can be predicted in the same way (even if you know the clash is going to happen you can't be sure which system is going to see the heaviest numbers fighting) and so an automated pre-node reinforcement system wouldn't work there. (as you mentioned jita, i understand jita is on effectively its own perma-reinforced node 23/7 anyway)"
"all of your arguments have been pretty well shot down by scatim heliconso would you mind providing your obviously experience resume of mmorpg programing? if not you might want to quit backseat programing and let ccp decided on the merit of it or not :)"
"i don't have time to teach you how to read... you got thousands of buddies who can however.feel free to look them up.its your idea... you figure it out."
"good idea"
"this. i notice you very cleverly left out a cons section of your op and this should be at the top of the list for anyone who is defending a pos. those precious few seconds you waste targeting a structure you thought you needed to shoot at could make the difference in a fight.get a scout ship to pretarget them if you want and act as a spotter, but no no and no on this change."
"absolutely!!"
"what the roid muncher said.ewwwwwwwwwwwwww"
"its already in game. it's called learning skills. case closed!"
"ugh no!"
"whatever happened to discipline and patience?not supported!"
"i support the above post not the proposal"
"lol.ur awesome.i could help you set up the next pos. convo me in game!"
"this. epic fail. :)"
"well it is one of the funnier usages with the cov ops fitted transport ships...uncloak, scoop tower, cloak. enjoy the confusion in local."
"here is a thread discussing partly the same subject:missions and agents - suggestions for improvementpersonally i like the idea of player created missions/a \"mission editor\" more than dynamically but still automatically generated content (which would nevertheless improve the current situation of course). three reasons:1) it would create a new (for some of us) interesting profession to be a \"mission creator\", or - to avoid metalanguage - let's call it \"agent/corporation/faction partnership\" with maybe a set of new skills.2) the potential creativity and phantasy of thousands of players is unbeatable by any automatic mission generating system. of course to avoid totally unplayable and stupid missions a framework has to be defined a mission creator can only move within. i am sure there are really talented artists out there, like in the department of video creators.3) it fits well to the basic eve idea to be a universe organized and formed by the players.a note to erik's remark:due to eula conditions this is already threatened with a player ban from the game. basically it's the same like using abusive language in a bio, corp description, contract description, in chat channels, at the forums or any other publicly accessible text medium. you cannot forbid the freedom to talk and to write due to the risk that this freedom is misused. nevertheless text descriptions of a player created mission might be an issue: if it's not abusive language it could be pure nonsense, or boring, or not in line with the storyline framework of eve (\"today the amarr have formed an alliance with the minmatar to destroy the caldari state, gallente federation and goon swarm alliance. help them...blabla...\"), probably something ccp would not like. on the other side: also the mission descriptions can have the potential to make a mission more interesting if someone has the idea for a nice little story being packaged in a mission. but yes, here could be the point that a mission must pass some kind of legalization office at ccp before it can be made public to the players.as already linked in the thread above some other old ideas regarding a mission editor can be found in mission editor - should there be one?"
"supported.the fact that you can write a macro that can run missions should tell everyone that something is painfully wrong with the pve content of eve online.and for those of you on the pvp bandwagon, that's all well and good, but if you're going to take the time to add content to the game (like missions) don't do a half-arsed job of it."
"i'll chime in to say that an initial step in adding to the complexity of a mission would be to encounter npc ships that are closer in setup and operation to player ships. real hacs (like a ham spewing sacrilege or a sniper zealot) or actual recons (webbing rapiers, neuting curses), a stealth bomber in an npc mission would be quit interesting (and let it act like a real player and launch bombs which blow up more friendlies than foes.) ecm that actually follows the rules so that not only is it used but also defended against. also, allow npcs to actually use drones. i'd love to see an ishtar in a mission actually drop 5 sentries."
"i support this in principle; but missions need more than just randomization.to really solve the mission problem you've got to answer a few questions:why is a mission fit different from a pvp fit? it's different because you don't need to stop the target from warping out. it's different because you care more about mitigating the damage coming at you from lots of ships and whittling them down to a manageable number than you do about taking out the one ship that is going to kill you. it's different because a mission is nothing like pvp -- but it should be.why is there no pve content for small ships? why is bigger always better? if i'm an extremely skilled pilot who just happens to like small ships, why is there not a mission i can run that makes use of my better-than-average skills and lets me fly what i like?why do mission runners work individually rather than in groups? the reward tends to be the loot and the salvage rather than the bounty and what the agent offers; it's more difficult to split up the loot and salvage -- especially with the lack of trust that exists in eve. make the bounty and agent's prize the reward for the mission and make loot secondary.to those who say that this game is all about pvp and that pve should always be secondary -- think about this: in a balanced pvp situation (1 vs 1), half of the players involved are going to lose their ship. half the loot from that ship (along with the hull itself) will be destroyed. the guy who just lost his ship is going to need to make money to buy a new ship which he is going to lose again. he needs to feel like a hero for a while. if he has a difficult time doing either of those things, he's probably going to quit. the more people who quit, the less targets you have. the less targets you have, the more likely you are to be the one who loses your ship because only the better players remain. what are you going to do when you lose all your money, can't make any kills, and don't feel like a winner anymore? somebody just won eve; and it wasn't you."
"if you want to easy the r64 monopoly from big powerblocks you could add some havestable clouds in some deadspace (ladar), that would helpa bit and give isk to others than alliance leaders, but making moon income despawn & respawn is not a good idea at all from an economic pov."
"absolutely 110% supported. i still have moon maps for impass and feythabolis from my ascn days that are still current. how ridiculous is that?of course, such a change will inevitably mean that t2 gear will become more expensive again, but that can be countered to a degree by ccp adding a few more high-end moons at the same time to compensate for the likelihood that some resources could go \"un-mined\" for a period of time. or alternatively, it could provide a good opportunity to re-assess the alchemy issue as well.this, along with a nerf to capital-scale logistics in general, is what 0.0 sorely needs to make it interesting again./ben"
"you mean after we got jump freighter not long ago you want to remove them again?just because the moon map from the old times is still valid, doesnt mean the same people get rich from it."
"i have a better(i think) idea - keep current infinite moons but also add add respawning finite minerals to moons(maybe even only r64).infinite moons will still be worth fighting for and keep some moon mineral supply going at all timesfinite 'veins' will increase mineral supply and allow ppl not in 'few super wealthy alliances' get some moon gold with luck and scanning effort.one 'vein' can have about 50000-100000 units of mineral and respawn elsewhere when depleted."
"the problem isn't with the moons.forcing people to rescan the entire regions regularly is even worse than the current situation (which is that rarity doesn't really mean value).for example: cloud ring has 1788 moons.given the least time it takes currently to scan one is 5min (lots of skill points in that) it will take about 6 days to scan them all to find the one that got depleted.add that during the time you are scanning even more moons will deplete which you have to go hunting for and probably recheck all the moons you had scanned since they might have changed.no thanks, making several full time jobs to scan moons isn't going to be a working sollution.if you want a way to lessen the grasp the big alliances have on dysp and prom then a better sollution is to change the demand. make all r64's worth about the same (+/- some %) and worth lets say twice that of r32 and so on and if you want to go even further make alchemy use gases to make whatever at a much better ratio than today which should be possible to balance and lessen the hold on prom/dysp."
"there'd need to be a better way to scan moons (planet wide scans, system wide scans?) before this is implemented... but the core of the issue isnt bad. i personally think any isk printing mechanics (the old t2 bpo system - which got fixed), and the current moon mining mechanics are bad mechanics and encourage a static game state.making moon minerals run out, or make moon mining poses more vulnerable may be options - but other changes would be needed to avoid a total collapse of the t2 market."
"what about just fixing the issue of the lesser moon minerals being worth less than the dirt under my fingernails instead?"
"one of the few driving forces behind territorial warfare is gaining control of r64s which provide the vast income required to maintain region-wide pos networks and supercap production. if i'm a small-medium alliance who lives in crappy region a with no r64s and my neighbouring small-medium alliance lives in awesome region b with 10 dysprosium moons, i might attack them to gain those moons for myself.if there's a clock ticking and i know that in a couple of months (and even in the best case scenarios it generally takes several weeks to secure a region) those dyspro moons are going to despawn, what's the point of me busting my ass to go take over the other region just for the big prize to vanish from under me? i may as well sit in my crappy region and wait for the day of despawn and see if some of those dyspro moons land in my lap next time around. perhaps more damaging for the game as a whole, if i'm a huge superpower 0.0 alliance i'm going to hold as much space as possible for myself and stamp out all my smaller neighbours so that when the moons get shuffled i've a better chance of owning the new r64s for myself. the situation we had at the start of this year where the sovereignty map got turned on its head because goonswarm abandoned the south-east to take delve and querious (since the r64 income from those two regions matched or surpassed what we were earning in the 4 regions of our old space) would never have happened, because in all probability we'd have been halving our alliance income once the next reshuffle came around.i'd say that was a smarter way to go. the fact that 2 out of the 4 r64 moons are massively profitable and the other 2 barely cover the cost of the pos fuel is pretty silly, and tweaking the moon mineral requirements for some of the reactions would be a simple way to go. don't equalise the values across the board, there should still be some r64s better than others, but reduce the massive disparity some."
"you could allow moons in wh space to have finite resources and allow them to be mined. since they are not open to mining presently it would make altering the presence of rare moon minerals in a given system not a change to anything we have presently.you could alter the moon scanning mechanic by allowing a new general moon scan to take place either by visiting the individual moons or system wide. this scan could tell you the tier of the minerals and skills could alter the time and accuracy of the scan. such a method could be fit to only work in wh or not.wh moon rares could be weighted to appear slightly more frequently in more dangerous wh space or not.just some thoughts."
"nah, not necessary in my opinion to add game mechanics to pure eye candy. we have suns, background clouds and different sky colours only as visible objects without any game mechanical purpose. why not more of those things to give the many solar systems a more varied look?i support this proposal!"
"it's not strictly necessary, no. i just don't think ccp is going to spend the man-hours necessary unless there's mechanics involved as well as eye candy."
"nephilim, you're arguing rather well and i appreciate the effort you're putting in, but you really don't understand the dynamics of eve well enough yet. eve is an mmo like no other. it's a game of total freedom where you are allowed to do anything you can get away with as long as it doesn't constitute an exploit. hacking someone's account and stealing all his isk is obviously not allowed, but swindling him out of his isk with a well-run scam is perfectly within the bounds of the law.concord are there to ensure you can't \"get away with\" unrestricted killing everywhere in the game. you might think the idea runs directly contrary to the aforementioned \"total freedom\" but you have to realise just how vicious the game gets out in 0.0 space (or even lowsec). since losing a ship or clone in eve carries genuine consequences (where most mmos only hit you with a small exp penalty or possibly some equipment damage when you respawn), everyone fights to the death at every opportunity. if concord were anything other than an absolute force it'd be the same as them being totally ineffectual, because at least some players would eventually beat them and be completely free of any consequences. this would be very bad.you see, there is a group of players in the game called goonswarm. eve's goons are the biggest mmo community in the world and play games for the purpose of ruining them for everyone involved- at least until they found eve, a game perfectly suited to them, where virtually anything is allowed in the boundaries of 0.0 space. however, if they were allowed to rampage across empire space, fighting off concord on the way and crushing everyone they see, they would- because they could. they wouldn't need a reason, you couldn't negotiate with them and although it might be possible for someone to stop them, the damage they would do to the game in the meantime (yes, damage, it would render the game totally unplayable for many, many players) would be devastating.concord are not harsh for being invincible. in fact, they're a very generous way of defining what would be in any other game a \"no-pvp zone\". eve has no \"no-pvp zones\", but concord-controlled empire space is as close as you're going to get. you can still be randomly killed by a ganking jerk for absolutely no reason, but at least the addition of concord means it's going to be a suicide gank. you should be thankful, not complaining- without concord it would be completely impossible for new players to join the game. no, i'm not exaggerating."
"now that its been brought to my attention, i had a look at the resists of tech1 ships.your right, its screwy. i don't understand it at all, it neither makes sense in game design or in rp fluff.i will say one thing however, this is not a minmatar only problem, its caldari also.why would a shield tanking race like the caldari, enhance their armor resist v's their enemies preferred damage type?they wouldn't, they would strengthen their shields, not their armor. as for minmatar, well keeping with the do anythingphilosophy, why would minmatar buff their shield tanking ships with armor resists?i propose we create a new thread that demands the +10% em resist on minmatar shield specific ships to be moved from armor to shield and move all the caldari ships +10% thermal resist from armor to shields."
"....combo breaker/me is now in violation of the forums pyramid quoting rules.hey guys, whats going on here? should i start some randome threads in here, so them dam keyloggers dont knock off ever topic in here but the sticky?p.s. ozzie is a noob :p"
"hello let's discuss 0.0 vs highsec income generation on the individual pilot level"
"id love to see some cockpits :d"
"manual ship movement = get out and push?(no to joystick and pseudo-joystick controls)"
"i have a lot of friends, all mmo players, who would start playing eve in a second if they could more identify with their avatar. wis would allow them to do that. if ccp waits till another round of ground breaking mmo's are released then they are missing a prime opportunity to recruit more people."
"hey bring the old lightning vortex back thanksalso bump"
"though i agree with the op, i always suggest to players to train into a destroyer as soon as possible strictly for the amazing usefulness of one fit with nothing but salvagers and tractors. =>_>="
"i like this, but i think that crew need some type of payment, they are not working for free."
"isn't there something similar in pirates of the burning sea about pirates in the 17th century caribbean?"
"current situation: the average eve player may not be aware that they have to save their settings folder periodically or they risk losing overview settings and bookmark folder organization in the event of a hard drive crash/wipe. the task a repopulating your bookmark folders when they've all been dumped into main space within people & places is a frustrating one. proposed solution: save bookmark folders server-side. bookmarks are already preserved that way so maintaining folder structure is the next logical step towards making eve more user friendly. pros: new players and veterans alike won't be quite so frustrated by the loss of settings folder files. cons: it will no doubt require some additional database load on ccp's servers."
"certainly worth asking for. supported."
"going by the search function this suggestion has popped up in the test server feedback forum, but i've yet to see a thread about it in this subforum, so that's why i'm posting this here.a lot of people dislike the new sensor booster effect introduced with the graphics upgrade. the problem isn't so much on the individual ship level, but when you form big fleets or take capital fleets out for a spin, this effect becomes too invasive and creates a big pulsing blur-thingy that makes it hard to tell what's going on. it's enough to make you turn effects off and thus miss some graphical pew pew and whatever else ccp's graphics team has put together.is it really necessary that we need an effect for sensor boosters? why don't we have one for damage controls then? my proposal would be to (preferably) remove the effect or re-design it to be more subtle and less of an annoyance. the old pulsing rings weren't much better, but they also weren't the eyesore the new effect is."
"it's probably a disincentive to ***** for killmails at a gate camp."
"agreed.on my stiletto it looks terribly bad. the center point of the effect is not even inside my ship due to the nature of the hull type so it makes a bad feature look even worse. and don't even ask me about the terrible sound effect of it."
"even the old one was better then the current one."
"the old-style ripple effect was much cooler.however this issue pales into insignificance next to bringing back the cyno jumping animation!"
"this pita has to go, but less about me. op supported"
"is it just me that thinks one of the most important corp security measures is that the bpo's are locked down and hence can't be stolen without all the shareholders allowing it?here is a counter proposal. you propose one vote (1) for a batch of bpo's at the same time. the vote therefore goes \"unlock the following bpo(s): capital drone bay, capital armor plates, capital antimatter reactor unit blah de blah de blah\".pros: less rsi and time wasting as the op wanted, but still keeps the accountability of votes for unlocking valuable assets;comments invited ;-)"
"agreed, more control over actionable items, roles, titles, wallet, etc...shareholders being able to action on items via voting would be a positive step towards real replaceable ceo corporations where a board of directors can more or less run the company by hiring in folks but have no worry about the assets being given for that job."
"the op included suggestions that would improve the value of lowsec, and if you dont think they go far enough you should feel free to make suggestions on improving it further. however, its not really our fault that you don't have the intel channels and support that the better organised eve players manage to make use of."
"the weak will always cry that their game should be made easier. they avoid challenge like a spoiled child avoids chores.but an easier path breeds weakness, whether in-game or not. and i like seeing you weaken yourselves. it's rare that someone knows their place in this, or any other, world.supported. the current 0.0 game is just too hard for you poor souls."
"0.0 needs something to balance the endless grind to actually hold space."
"i like this, and would love to see this happen."
"do it."
"this."
"i like the crux of gramtar's argument and will re-post what i posted elsewhere:"
"dawg what means a dawg gets more mad ices means a dawg be down dig, i be down if a dawg bust more an maybe leave morealso dawgs vote kuzim presdent of eve in 20010"
"good proposal."
"i approve of this. cruiser spawns in 0.0 is pointless"
"i support this."
"as long as faction cruiser spawns still spawn with battleship escorts.improving ratting to incentivize people to leave highsec and populate lowsec and 0.0 and a way to improve space for ratting, which this proposal has, is long overdue."
"you have a good point and i will certainly agree having lived it myself that there is no reward to trying to be self-sufficient in 0.0. while i do certainly think there should be a way to make money in 0.0, i feel very strongly about eve being a team game. the level 4 missioning game is very solidly a solo-pve carebear thing to do in eve. there is probably a large section of the player base who this is their main focus in eve and a significant source of money for ccp. to a player who plays the team game, that kind of stuff is like mining. it's excruciating and quite boring. most effective pilots i know have 2 accounts at least, a lot of them 3. anybody can run 3 accounts doing rrbs and clear a class 3 wormhole in an evening's work and pull in prolly half a bil. if you're in marauders you can dual-box it no problem and there seems to be some potential there for solo (though it's bloody difficult). even a class 1 or 2 will net you 100-200 million isk no problem (though they're more in highsec). basically ccp has already solved this money-making problem by giving you the potential to make great money from anywhere in space!i guess what i'm really trying to say here is that there are other ways to make money in eve (the least traveled path, really) and just focusing on buffing one specific isk generating activity isn't going to help anyone because you're just going to push more of those solo pilots out of high/low sec out to fight over an already limited resource. it's a tricky thing to balance because different players have different styles of play and ccp has to cater to all of them. i just think if you're in a corp or alliance, you have to figure out how to make your money together...otherwise why are you even out there in the first place?i'm really challenging the whole idea of \"grunt\" players that just play as cannonfodder to make a few people lots of money. playing with the right group of people has as much to do with your ability to make isk as what rats are spawning in system...realistically much much more."
"supported"
"higher sovereignty and so higher control giving more rats seem bad. it would seem a better option to recruit agents for the player stations as often suggested."
"the problem is the value of the loot/salvage.if ccp use mineral content it is skewed one direction, if they use local market values it is skewed in another, if they use jita values probably in another direction again.then a lot of ratters don't loot/salvage even if it could give a great profit (between x2 and x3 the mineral content of equivalent mission ships loot, more salvage than mission ships), so that value should be disregarded? how ccp can know what is really recovered from the wrecks and what was already in the ship? taht would require a level of data tracking that i doubt is feasible without serious risks of lag (and so changing the results as the ratting/missioning would give less isk/hour thanks to changed conditions)."
"why don't you try that?1) most faction items in the lp store are the equivalent of the worse faction drops from rats;2) the missions (barring maybe level 5) don't drop the tags you need for the lp offers in the right proportions and quantity, so you generally end with the wrong kind of tags;3) practically all the lp offers have a isk cost and all have a lp cost. both don't come free and in limitless quantities. so no, normal users can't crash the faction market through the lp store. macro haulers can be another story, but then macro ratter would do the same if the spawns were changed."
"ccp have already improved the quality of spawns in lowsec(0.4-0.1). i believe they should do something similar to 0.0."
"ccp have access to all player wallets - they routinely check that data when they investigate isk sellers.they can see the where the isk comes from, they can add it up and average it out. 1000 hours from 100s of different players would give fairly good estimate"
"i don't necessarily disagree with what you're saying, but to play devil's advocate:i) you say you specifically want to avoid nerfing highsec activities, but the game has a single economy; a boost to one method of isk-making is necessarily an indirect nerf to the others, simply because it increases the money supply. trying to dance around and say you don't want to reduce highsec income is rather disingenuous.ii) you're comparing highsec mission running to nullsec ratting; why not compare like for like? anyone trying to make a living by ratting in high/lowsec would be a space-pauper; anyone who can run missions in 0.0 has an infinite isk printer that would make a highsec mission runner blush. not only do nullsec missions pay better and give more lp/mission, the lp are worth vastly more than those of most highsec factions. i'm not trying to pretend that there are no problems with missioning for nullsec factions, particularly if you've been ratting in the area they live in, but again, it's rather disingenuous to compare wholly different activities."
"i wish people would only respond if they actaly have a bit of knowlage of the subject. 0.0 missions are only avaleble in the 4 npc sov regions, curse, gw, syndicate, venal and npc delve. only a small portion of 0.0 players live there and its usualy very hostile territory that u cant farm like regular high sec l4 missions ... (yes this involves risk and yes u need to hide often in stations and no it wont go as fast as l4 cause u cant use faction pimped ships for it)"
"let's look my wallet and trade when i was in 0.0. - 60+ sell order opens, included all the good stuff and minerals from looting missions in high sec;- plenty of sell orders in 0.0 for items made there with recycled loot (ammunitions, probes, meta 0 modules not dropped by the local rats, ships); - some sell order for the good metaitems dropped by the rats;- rigs made with local and empire components;- empire sell order for zydrine and megacyte from the 0.0 loot and some meta 4 sell order with modules coming from 0.0.edit: just to clarify it, those orders were put on the open market only some month only after i left the 0.0 alliance i was in, before they were offered to corpmates through the alliance forum.what wasn't there:- the faction items i did gets (some i used, some i moved in empire in a single voyage and later sold, some are still in my cans in empire or 0.0, the tower bpc was given to my corp) - the t2 salvage from rats that is still in my salvage can.so:- how ccp will differentiate if my sell order of meta 4 laser was made using 0.0 rat loot lasers or high sec mission lasers?- what value have the minerals i used to build ships that i used and lost? and ccp can identify where that mineral came (loot or mining)?- what value for the minerals i sold or gave to the corp as a gift? 0.0 local or empire? - if 0.0 local, how we will consider that some alliance enforce limited buy orders for 0.0, so that they will be the only people buying and at reduced prices?- if i sell something got in 0.0 after months of using it or simply keeping it in a can they will add his value to the money i made in 0.0?- ecc. ecc.raw data mining mean very little if you need to do something valid. you need to evaluate what you get and identify what problems there can be with you data gathering system."
"supportedanother point is that true 0.0 systems have less belts than other systems in 0.0. increase the number of belts to 12 and you can chain even better with much more profit. right now you can only chain in a true sys with only one person (in vale of the silent) while this systems have about 5-8 belts in it."
"butterfly effect nerfs are inevitable and occur all the time whenever anything is rebalanced in this game - even, for example, a statline change to a pvp ship will have knock on effects in empire for the people who manufacture and sell that ship. so yes, there would potentially be consequences for highsec.but one hopeful side effect of a 0.0 buff would be that if more of the space is attractive enough for people to compete for, then it would get more people out there blowing each other up, which would mean more demand for the ships and modules which are still mostly obtained in highsec (and so higher buy orders for the tritanium mined in highsec and used to construct them) and exported to 0.0.he's comparing best option with best option, not like for like. to turn your point around you may as well compare running l4s in the forge (apparently 20m per hour) with running l4s in querious (zero isk per hour - there aren't any l4 agents, or any agents at all, in querious!)whilst people can run l4s in npc 0.0 regions like stain or syndicate and theoretically make as much or more money as in highsec, in reality these regions are gankfests full of roaming nbsi gangs who are potentially probing out your mission site or camping the stations, so at best you'll spend half the time making no money at all because you're camped in or hiding in a pos or safespot, and at worst you'll have your expensive bs blown up and not only have to spend isk, but precious mission-running time flying around putting together fittings as well (npc 0.0 markets tend to be patchy - there's rarely a jita or rens equivalent system with everything you need at low prices in a single location).whether ratting or missioning, the difference in 0.0 is that your theoretical maximum income is only possible under perfect conditions that rarely are present in reality (ie a ratting system with above average truesec, all the crappy cruiser spawns already cleared out for you, a dozen or so belts, no hostiles or neutrals in system, and no other ratters in system that you have to split the spawns with, or a l4 agent with no hostiles or neutrals in the agent's system or any other system that the mission sends you to). whilst in highsec, those perfect missioning conditions apply all the time so your theoretical maximum income is your actual income where the only limitation is the amount of time you want to spend playing."
"as i had a clean standing alt with less than 6 month of training i did mission running in delve with him.even if it was full of non blue i had no problem running them (beside the alliance not liking the time \"lost\" to mission running) and had no problem doing the missions. never lost a ship mission running in 0.0. ratting was more dangerous. sure, only four regions have npc stations, but that can be changed. change for change, in theory that adding npc agents will give 0.0 the \"infinite supply\" of easy money that high sec already has. but the point is not that, true? the point is that it should be a big wealth source with as little time required to get the money as possible. it should not move people away from the \"true\" activity of 0.0, fighting other players. that is a choice of the alliances:\"don't sell in station, enemies can buy the stuff. only sell through inter alliance channels.\""
"low sec needs a fix, asap. currently, the more danger you're exposed to in low sec, the lower the rewards."
"pretty much everyone with some sense of perspective would agree that higher risk should equate to higher reward. that concept is one of the appeals of eve, but currently it doesn't appear to be playing out that way at the individual level. that said, the devil is in the detail when it comes to ways to improve the situation.i've found that for the mostly solo play i currently engage in, level 4 hisec mission running is just too good to ignore. on a single account 20m isk/hour is pretty easy to achieve even if you don't factor in the profits from lp conversion - and the lps net me more gain than the bounties/loot/salvage/mission isk reward combined per unit time. every other solo money making scheme i've looked at has come up short of this with the exception of exploration - and that has more risks and really requires multiple accounts.to address the devil's advocate post above, i don't consider the suggested approach disingenuous given that the stated objective is to move the balance of reward towards the higher risk environments. i'm also not sure on what you're basing the belief that 0.0 mission running is massively more lucritive than hisec. the numbers i've run for lp conversions and earning rates on a couple of the pirate factions were not impressive and failed to justify the increased risk.back to suggestions for rectification, we need to consider macro-economic consequences. the nature of the different ways a player is rewarded is important, mainly the difference between isk rewards (primarily bounty) and material rewards (modules, minerals). i'll leave psuedo currency like lps out of the equation for simplicity sake.the basic principle is, anything that you inject more of into the economy loses relative value, and that includes isk itself. whacking rats for bounty injects isk directly into the economy, increasing the ease of this has an inflationary effect lowering the value of isk compared to the goods it is used to purchase. ie. the price of everything goes up. for another example look at the theory of drones and high end minerals, the issue there is that a new source of high end minerals was introduced such that they became relatively more plentiful compared to everything else (especially low end minerals), as a result the relative value of everything else increases. ie. the price of tritanium goes up, the price of high end minerals goes down.i figure lets try to kill 2 birds with one stone by injecting the right stuff into 0.0 solo play rather than just isk. after all, any change you make to the game has trickle down effects, we might as well aim for those things to be desireable as well, insofar as it's possible to predict them. increasing the availability of low end minerals in deep nullsec isn't very appealing so that's out. more bounties means inflation and nobody likes inflation... i wouldn't say its out but you want to be careful with it.lets look at some overpriced items which are linked to mostly lowsec and 0.0 play.t2 rigst2 shipsin both cases the problem is supply, though for slightly different reasons.t2 rigs suffer from limited supply opportunities across the board. so why not improve the value of all npc ships outside hisec by giving them a gradually increasing chance to salvage t2 rig parts the lower the sec of the system they are in.t2 ships suffer from the moon mining and reactions industry being owned by alliances, not individuals. it is a great big oligopoly which happliy keeps prices high. how about it be made possible to get some t2 materials through individual effort in any system where moon mining is possible. in this way, individuals who live in 0.0 can improve their personal wealth creation, and it would create an individual incentive for people to raid those systems, either venturing out from hisec or from neighboring sov. granted balancing this with passive extraction via poss is tricky, but some clever design could solve this."
"that's not how it works in goonswarm, even in the npc delve constellations. :)and for the solo player needing to make money, it doesn't really matter why the npc 0.0 markets are patchy, scattered and inflated. it still means he might have to fly 15 jumps to get his next set of (overpriced) missile launchers, another 15 jumps to pick up his (overpriced) ballistic control systems, and then 30 jumps to get back to his agent, all of which is time he could have spent making more money doing more missions, not to mention the risk of him getting blown up on the way. the realities of npc 0.0 make missioning a far less attractive proposition than heading back to a highsec hub and running them all day long in near-total safety, even with the slightly higher agent rewards."
"."
"there are no players to fight in 0.0 because nobody has any reason to be in 0.0. if people could actually feasibly live out in 0.0 instead of going back to highsec to run missions it's a win for 0.0 dwellers both carebear and pirate alike."
"i don't like the op suggestion, but i do agree that some balance needs to be struck.imho the best fix would be to 'tone' down the reward ladder in empire. namely by changing the current mineral faucets to lp faucets in addition to loot revisions for drones. this would drive mid range minerals up, zydrine up, trit down and more or less make low security look appealing for mining again. scale the lp rewards so that the highest ones are given at null npc. ensure that lp stores only give out the best conversions there as well.with that and zyd and mega up to higher levels, it should make null look vastly more appealing for both pirate and carebear alike....should make everyone happy."
"this is convoluted solution. just boost 0.0 bounties. problem solved."
"it would only seem that simple, but raising bounties would actually make it worse."
"i said it before and i'll say it again - because it is the truth:the biggest injustice of 0.0 hunting is that people who log in immediately after downtime have 30-50% better chance of finding valuable faction spawns, including officer spawns.i have done it for at least 2 years - i hunted right after downtime and i hunted 12+ hours after downtime. i know the difference. i understand the game mechanics that make it possible, i explained how it works already.you want to improve 0.0 for general population without any big game changers? simply fix the broken system. that fix may not be enough, but it is a step in right direction."
"i'm not much for investing, but i would say a few mil in a t1 frig is a highly risky investment. especially since if you die, you will never see that isk again, and your opponent can't loot it so that isk disappears forever.sounds like an isk sink to me."
"but you buy that rig off a rig builder (like me!) and then i spend that isk on more components/waste the profit if i've made any on exotic dancers. the isk is not sunk as it continues to flow about the economy :) skillbooks are isk sinks as the isk is technically destroyed.the only real isk sinks in the chain are npc station slot fees and sales taxes and whatnot."
"salvage doesn't work on the same model that minerals do, so yes it is an item sink when rigged ships get popped.however... as noted before. because we'll be seeing a price plummet because usage amounts are lower, i really don't think its going to be that significant of an impact....assuming drop rates are equal."
"got to support this as well."
"ccp ... think ... how does it look if you attempt to supress people speaking about the way you handle stuff ... seriously ... think!"
"such wisdom from someone who only has 14 hours to save the earth :d"
"because ... if we don't say no, ccp will assume we mean yes."
"surprise surprise... here i was thinking this thread and the one before this was stupid... emo rage...nothing but a waste of time.i've never had a problem... until recently.about 2 weeks ago i had a strange skill queue glitch on me.... i didn't notice because i was just pew pew pew'ing and then i saw it frozen on completing a skill for an hour.so i report it... and they say i lost 58 to 59 minutes of training (big wup right?).so i go.. ok... uh.. that's not good.. can i have it back?they say yes... i say sure.. put it there (points to skill queue)nope.. won't work there.i say.. put it there then (points at skill list)oh we can't do that.. has to be in a skill with exactly same amount of time you lost and must not be training and most not be in the queue.i just lost it there and said frak it... told them they can keep it and flunked the rating.whats happened to the stellar gm service people? seriously?sorry... but my pitchfork is gonna get added to this stack.here here!ps: seriously.. its just a measily 59 minutes and they couldn't shove it into a skill at random or nudge along my queue? wth?!"
"all i've ever had to petition are isk spammers, and they've all been c&p replies. though i agree we need some transparency here, if they're worried about privacy don't release the char names, but the gms \"gm whatever\" should be available with their start date, so we can have an idea of how much experience they have, maybe even the month and year of their oldest normal character-no name, just that it was made in january 2005 for example."
"the level of consistency and competence i would expect from a far more disreputable, cheap, and uncaring company. the fact that this is this service is provided by ccp is nothing less than appalling when compared to the commitment they have shown their game.it is time for a change.fully supported."
"indeed..."
"i think this thread is mostly just a list of people who shall not be getting any petition requests granted any time soon =p<3 ccp"
"totally supported!"
"supporting this. lower level or 'first port of call' gms generally seem to lack any idea or just do not read the petitions. often replies have nothing to do with what you're petitioning about or are so vague and general you can almost envisage them going with a 'cut and paste' reply."
"been an issue for a very long time. something really needs to be done about it."
"while some arguments in this thread are valid, my alliance name is not one of them. but the point is, insurance is still too much of an isk faucet on the individual level. however, i do acknowledge that insurance is something this game needs (not what reality would call for). after re-examining the issue, perhaps a 10-25% recovery was too harsh.uninsured - 10% compensation.5% premium - 20% compensation....30% premium - 70% compensation.this still reduces the 40% unconditional loss return to 10%, but it still operates with the same 2:1 premium return as currently present. the net compensation (based on mineral prices) will be 10-40%. i believe a 40% insurance return is more than fair. the current 70% value is far too high.edit: perhaps insurance of mining/industrial vessels could have a 3:1 investment ratio. they are, after all, not combat ships that are designed for frontline engagements.uninsured - 10%5% premium - 25%...30% premium - 100%this would give non-combat ships a 10-70% return."
"your original proposal was as broken as the current in-game insurance. this, though, this is much more reasonable. a 40% payback is high enough for insurance to work, but not so high to cause tech 1 ships to be risked with little concern.supported."
"if we can't get contracting of damaged goods, this is the second best solution."
"omg yes! yes!!"
"there was a csm/ccp meeting report last year where the minutes mentioned some ccp dev saying \"we like the minnies the way they are - nudge nudge, wink wink\". i thought for a while that there must be some trick to flying minnie bs that would make them double plus awesome compared to other ships because the icelanders at ccp would have soft spot for ships and a race whose names featured so many icelandic and nordic names.in the meantime, i think the minnie ships have just been forgotten. no one brought the clueless ccp statistician up to speed on why so few people actually fly minnie bs (or why the one minnie hac with good resistances, the munnin, has a bonus for arties which no one uses anyway). sadly, i think ccp just doesn't and won't care. i would love to be proven wrong about ccp just once, instead of feeling laughed at by ccp marketing getting more money out of me because i still let them string me a line of hope."
"the various changes to the game (over the last 2 years or so, especially) have left minmatar ships in a terrible spot. they have the worst weapons, the worst defenses, are terribly skill intensive and have no real focus anymore. for the love of all things fair ccp, at least fix projectile weapons so that the larger minmatar ships stand a chance. i can at least compensate for the missile over-nerfing you did by training more support skills and relying on drones, but the poor matari pilots don't have that option. signed!"
"don't forget that before the great nano nerf patch, minmatar had very powerful vagabonds, typhoons, rapiers, huginnsnow all of those ships have lost an edge and gained nothing, thus underlining the existing weaknesses"
"edit: when showing previews, the forum forgets the \"support this topic\" status.at the very least, this, i mean sure it's annoying that people can shoot your stuff and extend the count down but that fact it doesn't tell you just makes ccp look like ubisoft...by the way, you should take that as a horrible insult because i once found a function in ubisofts code called \"blabla\"."
"bump."
"i support this motion"
"interesting idea, maybe have it be like a \"yellow light\" on the contacts list.thumbs up."
"current situation: the use of a jump bridge in 0.0 space while piloting a pod requires 1 unit of liquid ozone. this wasn't always the case, the change to require any liquid ozone for pods is a newer requirement. this is a problem because a pod is unable to carry liquid ozone it is unable to use an empty bridge.proposed solution: return the liquid ozone use for pods back to being 0 units.pros: pilots who have lost their ships can move about easier for finding a replacement ship.cons: pods won't be required to pay a toll to the pos gods."
"really don't get why this was ever done away with."
"considering that a pod has no cargo room, this was a stupid change to begin with.way to go random game mechanic change guy. (he's a super hero for the masses you know).supported."
"supported"
"supported"
"sensible."
"not supported. the cost is negligible for 1 unit of ozone. however, to be able to use the jump bridge the owners need ensure it is kept supplied with fuel. failure to do so should not allow free use for pods as it would only facilitate a safer way to travel from one location to another for operations or replacements.its simple, just keep them filled with fuel so they work as intended."
"supported, random mechanic change that had no positive effect and added an annoyance."
"jump bridges are already horribly overpowered. they are safer than high sec empire gate travel. they ruin small scale pvp.if anything, jump bridges should be made much harder to use, and much more expensive, so people use them only when it is really important and not for day to day traveling."
"not correct. they have the same \"power\" as portals, wormholes and stargates. means of travel, each with distinct characteristics, advantages and disadvantages.completely incorrect try making a little *effort*silly. most small scale pvp is ruined by people not willing to make *effort*, not willing to think outside the box, unable to do much of anything without moon goo being involved, unwilling to do anything without moon goo being involved. no x64 getting shot? no reason to defend against intrusions.and ah yes, small scale pew pew in 0.0 died when everybody switched to making isk in empire as it was more rewarding for less risk. no targets, no fun.go try run a decent bridge network you'll do a 180 on opinions quite quickly. bridges are deathtraps, worse then stargates since they encourage afk behaviour like in the good old days when people had to use bookmarks to travel 80 jumps through 0.0. besides that the maintenance both in cost and manhours is horrific.seriously man, it is not too much to ask to comment constructively on something if you have the topic specific experience and expertise as for the issue itself, i'd love to support it, but i think there is some benefit in raising the bar a little bit on the logistical processes involved in ship replacements. which is the most frequent scenario where you see pods running for bridges by the dozen. at 0 cost, that is nice but a bit too easy. at a tiny cost it seems reasonable imo."
"that should have been done intitially. at least they could overlay something special in one of the corners like they do for tech 2 items."
"there's no indication of bpo/bpc for performance reasons, from what i understand. it's been brought up before and the devs have sadly shook their heads and gently told us, \"not quite yet...\"(my lack of support tick is not because i think its a bad idea; it's because all hope has been abandoned and ticking the checkbox would be pointless.)"
"yeah, it's about the millionth time. ccp's position on this has been constant for a long time - they'd have to rewrite the database to do it without causing unacceptable lag, and while it'd be a nice feature, it doesn't justify the man-hours. i want it, but i'm not going to hold my breath."
"current situation:the ui has \"jump to\" located right next to \"open jump bridge\" on titans. having the possibility of accidentally jumping your 80b isk ship onto a hostile fleet because of a 10 pixel mouse slipup is terrible.proposed solution: separate the two options further from each other in the ui.pros: 80 billion isk assets won't be put at jeopardy due to a ui miss-click. cons: the opportunity to catch titans who accidently clicked the wrong thing will decline."
"while watching samhandwich jump into a hostile system when he meant to jump bridge us in is hilarious. it's poor ui design"
"even when this sounds funny.supported."
"why don't we lump all of these into one ui redesign thread instead of having the front page of the assembly hall peppered with these one offs?we already know that ccp is addressing the context menus, from one of your other threads, so let's let them work on that problem, and focus on something new that they aren't already working on, mmkay?"
"given that there's only a couple hundred people who have ever seen this interface, i'm fine with them making a special point of raising it."
"i don't mind them raising the point, but do we really need a separate thread for every single \"this option is too close to that one\" discussions?"
"the reason is due to how the csm votes. if you have a list of 5 items, having a delegate not like one could mean he votes no. when we talk about it with ccp it is very likely they'll be grouped together."
"that's a legitmate reason. i retract my previous concern in that case. carry on my good man.oh, and supported."
"i'm taking this request from something i wrote in the ships & modules forum.i've seen a lot, a very lot, of threads devoted to \"nerfing\" or \"buffing\" specific weapon systems. every poster has their pet idea for what specifically will fix a weapon system, and there's almost no consensus on what it will take. i think we can all agree that while turrets at any size have some issues, it is large turret weapon systems that need to be balanced the most. we've seen a lot of changes come  nanonerf, hp buff, laser buff, etc.  that have left some weapons in the dust. instead of an idea like \"give projectiles 25% more alpha,\" i would like ccp to rebalance the large turret systems according to the following principles:close rangea battleship with large autocannons, that is moving and not webbed, should significantly out-damage a battleship with large pulse lasers at close (around 10km, not 1km) range.a battleship with large blasters should unconditionally obliterate anything inside its optimal range.a battleship with large autocannons should significantly out-damage a battleship with large blasters at blaster optimal + falloff.a battleship with large pulse lasers should significantly out-damage any other battleship at pulse laser optimal range.long rangea battleship with large artillery should significantly out-damage other long range turret ships within its relatively short optimal. artillery should have a long, gradual falloff range.a battleship with large beam lasers should out-damage other turret ships at its optimal range.a battleship with rail guns should have unmatched range, and do the best damage at its maximum optimal.whether it takes rebalancing weapon stats, ship bonuses, or ammo stats, all of the above things should be true of a standard ship fitting for each race. it isn't true currently. do the math, do the modeling. do whatever it takes to make sure that each weapons has an ideal range that makes it the most superior option available at that range."
"this looks good, supported"
"unfortunately that idea is worthless for practical use.it can create some interesting philosophical discussions thoalso, people should stop confusing assembly hall forum with features and ideas discussionstop spamming crap"
"right. so what makes it \"worthless for practical use\"? you have nothing to back that statement up.and i don't see how this thread is any different from any other on page one of this forum."
"stop trolling crap.that said.-------------@opyour a bit off the wall here... so i think you should focus on the crux of the matter..any gun.. no matter what kind... you'd think.. that at point blank range... right in front of the line of site of any large barreled/laser gun... you'd get some sort of dps back.... but you don't due to the mechanics.there needs to be a \"shotgun\" affect.no bonuses... no funny funny stuff... just that.call it a skill if you will... broadside combat or something.now of course... as our troll so \"balanently and ignorantly\" put it... will never happen because it would require a near total rewrite of the system.so what i just suggested is at best... a close compromise without rewriting the laws of physics n the game.so yes... good point... not so good idea... good intention.... but good luck.. not gonna get very far i'm afraid."
"thanks for the support. and though my hopes aren't immensely high, ccp said they're taking a look at \"balancing\" for the winter expansion, and i can only hope its a holistic approach.as for being off the wall, yeah, it may sounds nuts. but here's the thing: everything i listed is how ccp intended these weapons to work from the get-go.hybrids were supposed to be great at very close and very long ranges. lasers were supposed to have the longest range close weapons, and big hurting beams from mediumish to long ranges. projectiles were supposed to move around to fight one or the other, and use falloff against large damage, or higher damage against someone with better range.it's just that so many massive changes have been made, they've fallen out of wack. large projectiles are currently bad in about every situation, and large blasters lost a lot of hurt with the web nerf/tracking nerf.i think they just need to look at how they perform today, and tweak each of them so they all have their own niche again."
"current situation: the main ui for looking at market buy/sell orders doesn't give any insight into which ones belong to you. therefore you can't easily right-click the order and modify it from that screen. you instead have to flip back and forth between two. proposed solution: highlight buy and sell orders which belong to you in another color. and add the ability to change the orders from the main screen where list is generated.pros: it'll save the user and the database the pain of loading both windows constantly as they cross reference their buy and sell orders."
"nothin quite like buying something only to realize you bought it from yourself"
"."
"this was already suggested too."
"i'm glad you're being so helpful as to link where it was already suggested.oh wait, you aren't."
"when? what was ccp's answer?"
"i'm still not here to hold your hand. you are on the csm now sir. you should be able to look up the previous issues pretty easily and realize it was already asked for.let me quote:"
"i still can't fathom how this would cause any lag whatsoever. i have my wallet's orders tab open, i have the market screen open, my computer checks which orders of mine are of the appropriate item type and in the appropriate region, and highlights those on the display. this never needs to hit the server at all, and any sane implementation should be almost physically incapable of causing server lag."
"it could introduce lag into the database calls, depending on how the database is set up. i've seen it happen before.functional issues aside -- if you're a manufacturer, why are you buying things you're obviouly making for sale? it seems to me it would be a better financial practice to make them and keep some for yourself, since you can presumably make them for less than you can buy them.if you're a trader, i have no sympathy since you obviously don't know what you're selling things for."
"there are work arounds. label your orders with a unique ending identifier.ie72292.65 isk"
"this is a useful feature. the fact that it doesn't exist yet is one of the main reasons why i hate trading. if it would cause heavy lag, don't implement it. if not, please yes.a small addition:it would be also nice to have the complete list of my/corporation sell/buy orders (in a very short description) in an additional tab on the left side of the market window (where the item browser and search function is). clicking on an order on the left side activates the buy/sell order overview on the right side for the respective item, with the order highlighted or marked which has been clicked on the left. at the moment these tabs are at the right side, on the left side they would be more useful and avoid permanent jumping between two tabs."
"whereas the number of settings that must be adjusted and re-adjusted for every bpc research or manufactured is a profound burden on my time allowed to play eve, and whereas time spent clicking buttons is time poorly spent, i propose the following:1. implement a template system that allows inventors/manufacturers the ability to \"load\" a previously defined job setting. 2. this would function very much the same the new feature that allows pilots to save and load their ship fittings.3. players would have job load-out templates that would define which pos/facility would be utilized, how many runs were being manufactured or what type of item was attempting to be invented.4. inventors/manufacturers would be able to select x bpc's to run, then load the saved job template and the script would automatically assign said jobs to the open research/manufacturing slots.5. the inventor/manufactuer would only need to highlight the desired bpc's, right-click, select invent/manufactur, then load the template and click ok, the normal job summary screen would then load and they could click 'ok' to execute the job.i'm not asking for any t2 bpo's to be torched. i'm not asking for a higher return on investment. i just don't want to have to spend 15 to 30 minutes setting up a run of 200 ogre ii's anymore. ccp helped out the combat pilots with the option to save fittings. please carry that love over to the inventor and manufacturers.thanks."
"if it takes you longer than about 2 minutes to set up a manufacturing job, you're doing it wrong."
"not true. when you have 20 bpc's to run or to invent it takes an unreasonably long time to go throught the itterative process 20 times."
"a manufacturing job might take 2 minutes. 10 manufacturing jobs + 10 invention jobs take more like 10 to 20 minutes.how long does it take to fit a ship? they added functionality to streamline ship fits."
"something needs to be done. even having the dialogs 'remember the last hanger used' would be nice.science&industry need to have its ui revisited."
"i'm not arguing the time necessary for multiple runs. the op's comment was specifically that it took him 20-30 minutes to set up one (1) job of ogre ii'sof course multiple jobs take longer - that's the nature of any repetitive task. if one execution takes y time, then 20 should take 20y."
"no, i said 200 ogre ii's. that is 20 jobs as they can only be manufactured 10 at a time, not to mention the 40 or so invention jobs required to invent that many ogre 2 bpc's.it's just too much clicking.again, if they we willing to save the combat pilots 60 seconds with the ability to save and load ship fittings, why not save the manufacturers some time with their niche?"
"quantum rise was supposed to do that, if my memory serves me right.csm2 also requested for batch-jobs. however, i'm not sure it's very high on ccp's list to do."
"it was promised for qr, but then they threw out all the industry stuff except the orca and made it a lag patch. i'm a fan of fixing lag, of course, but this was a tragic loss. put it back on the priority list, please."
"then i sit corrected."
"whether 5 or 10 or 20 or 30 minutes, in any case this is true:and please also templates for t1 production from bpos and copying blueprints."
"it's fine as it is. invention should be worse than bpos."
"why?"
"invention is an in-depth and critical analysis of existing t1/modified modules and prints. the result is a working product, but it's not as efficient as the license holder. it requires more resources and manufacturing time to come up with the generic form of the official tech 2 module. in short, look at trade secrets. that's why."
"this."
"i have a feeling everyone that say it is fine as it is either have t2 bpos or are part of an alliance with r64 moons."
"and you'd be wrong."
"my corp is not in an alliance, we own no x64 moons, and we own no t2 bpos. in fact, i am myself a pretty serious inventor - i have three characters dedicated full-time to an invention business, and will be starting up a fourth next week. and i still oppose this change. it doesn't make sense. furthermore, why would i assume it would help me? if stuff becomes cheaper to make, it'll just drop the selling price, and make it easier for new people to get into my markets besides. the buyer will see the gains from this change, not the inventor."
"require anchored pos to be online to remain anchored. if a pos sets offline for a fixed number of days, then it unanchors; or is destroyed as hits the moon's surface."
"id say 30 - 45 days of it being offline it despawns..... like they did with cans and whatnot awhile back... just get rid of em on the dt"
"cans and poses are entirely different beasts. if you want to clear out dead poses, wardec their owner."
"while i really like the idea, the only version of it i could see ccp doing would be 'pos is destroyed'.personally, the idea of looking long abandoned poses sounds fun. but poses represent a significant isk sink and i doubt ccp wants those resources back in the economy."
"agreed. if it ain't online, either make it go away at downtime or let someone claim it as their own. no squatting on moons without firing up the pos"
"allow the hacking skill and subsequent training schemes to take down offlined pos after a war dec. have it require an inordinate amount of time and quite possibly a isk sink in the form of npc goods required.in this regard, someone could setup a business of repo man for the stars.not all of us enjoy logging in 10 friends to plink at a pos all night."
"just shoot it. may i recommend an afk armageddon"
"no.if you want to remove it, shoot it. if you dont want to risk your own ship, pay someone. if you dont want to do any of the 2, well then its their moon.not supported."
"sup sup,dawg dig it, reaper a ship is aight but dawg dig it,somtims it gets into mad scrapsgettin mad scrapan all a dawg can do is get mad an make rapswhile a dawg be floatinwhile a space cowboy's ropeingall him can do is pray as hes hopin',so dig it dawg, get da reaper out of trubbl:let the reaper warp out of a bubble.its not gonan make a dawgs gig much harderjus lets a dawg get him ship a bit farthur"
"yo dawg dig it i was running for presdent before dig, no need to hate a dawg.but dawg dig it, they be mad enemies eve side, him name is bubblz and him stop a dawg from getting out.\"you are uanble to get out because a dawg be close to a bobble\"not quit like that but close dig.jus sayin a dawg need a new way out"
"dawg needs to fly a strategic cruiser with an interdiction nullifier subsystem, yo?not supported. tool."
"10/10 winnar!"
"hell yeah i love it"
"dawg gotta do whatcha gotta do reppin for re-re fuk da haters you're more than they'll ever be"
"i love you so much kuzim"
"i agree"
"i'm down"
"i'm starting to agree with the idea of rules for posting in the assembly hall with immediate permanent forum bans for anyone who violates them.there is already a set of ships that can ignore bubbles. they're called strategic cruisers. get one, learn to fly it, and enjoy laughing at the non-targeted warp interdiction fields as you calmly zoom away from them."
"if in-game bans are what it takes to clean up these forums, then i gladly support it. trolls have an entire rest-of-the-internet for their crap./ben"
"i try to avoid caod, but from what i've seen, the biggest problem is some combination of epeen waggling and rampant alliance fanboyism. people act like idiots because they want to be hard-line xenophobic nationalists for their internet spaceship countries. oddly, we don't do this for real countries any more, but for fake countries it's still fun(presumably because all the blood shed in the resultant wars is virtual). really, i don't know how harsher penalties for bans would make people less likely to act like smacktards when they're in caod bashing other smacktards."
"i got forum banned for 6 months for participating in a z0r chain in some worthless caos thread that was going to get locked anyways then i had to run for csm in a brand new alt created specifically for that reason hth"
"supported.(though i expect this thread will simply be alt trolled out of existence.)"
"clearly you haven't been reading the same forums as i have :d"
"yes, only one char per account should be able to post, and main banned = all accounts banned.ingame bans for forum misbehaviour should be enforced as well.imo people under forum bans shouldn't be able to run for csm, nothing personal though. reason for this is that i believe a csm should display exemplary behaviour and at least interact with the community in a reasonably polite manner. if you did something that warrants a forum ban, you do not meet those criteria i think."
"pot, meet kettle."
"german diplomat, 1918: \"it's fine, we didn't want alsace-lorraine anyways\"french diplomat, 1940: \"losing our country in six weeks has only freed us from the shackles of large-scale warfare. we're going to head to npc space(algeria) and have fun out there\"no, i think it's safe to say that even in the era when nationalism was cool, people weren't nearly as pigheaded about it as they are with alliances. really, it resembles sports teams more than nations - most people at least try to justify their patriotism as being the result of their country being better than others, but sports fandom is gleefully irrational. i'm a leafs fan because i cheer for the leafs, and no better explanation is really possible. most of caod seems to have the same attitude - amateurish propaganda to back up an opinion that they hold for no particular reason except that they're going to \"root, root, root for the home team\"."
"hah! no.pelosi? is that you?"
"are you really saying that posting in a caod z0r chain, or some similarly trivial 'offence', warrants an in-game ban and csm exclusion? the inconsistency of the mods as they veer between 'see no evil, read no evil' and their occasional bouts of rabid banfesting is the reason why they shouldn't be trusted with issuing in-game bans or doing anything else remotely important."
"current situation:when right-clicking on modules in your hangar, \"trash it\" is right above \"fit to active ship.\"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.when right-clicking on an assembled ship in your hangar, \"trash it\" is right above to \"make active.\"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.proposed solution: separate the above options further in the right-click ui.pros: reduce people accidently trashing their ships and modules because they turned off the popup to confirm trashing things. cons: it won't idiot-proof the ui but it will cut down on accidents."
"already raised."
"yes, but this is a much more specific proposal versus overhauling the whole menu."
"the answer is going to be the exact same."
"aren't you just a font of unhelpful information."
"and what was the answer from ccp?did they give a timeframe when it is fixed?"
"so you knew it was raised?then you'd know this: i might add that it's a fairly complex piece of code which ccp is afraid of touching. it's going to be a complete overhaul of the context menu if anything."
"lavista is right, we don't need this again.issueresolution:(4) - the ui team had numerous meetings on this. they have not come up with a good scheme yet. they are afraid of an incremental approach to fix all the menus, people would be confused with menus changing with every patch. issler noted that the whole ui requires a complete revamp, ccp should make sure that the solution to this problem should be part of the revamp. tl;dr ccp agreed that some of the context menu layout is unintuitive and is working on this as part of ui revisions. no timeframe specified."
"you actually use \"fit to active ship\"?i never use that : o pthus never had the problem of dealing with the trash it command.maybe you should stick to just dragging and dropping to the fitting service window like most people i know."
"i confirm that this particular strawman argument will totally blindside people from the more relevant second issue of it being next to \"make active\", and the reflexive action of clicking ok as you assume that the confirmation window is actually the \"you can't do that yet as your session change hasn't finished\".csm from the past should realise that ccp saying \"yea we know\" isn't enough to make issues go away. unfortunately, it seems to have been enough in the past to make the csm's go away."
"i was wondering.....does ccp benefit from plex sales now that they are deliberately putting the market into a downward spiral by nerfing lvl 4 missions, making it so that higher quality ores aren't readily availiable in most 0.0/low sec systems, and ratting in most belts is lame?"
"what?"
"ich habe 17 mio isk, kann ich helfen?"
"hug or tissue. i cant decide."
"you see i'm not the only one who see's everything broken...."
"i'm just looking for reasons why ccp is allowing these things to remain broken, and then breaking it more. i'm wondering if it is money driven......"
"do i smell a carebear?"
"do i smell a dumbass?"
"no.. that putrid stench that makes one ready to throw up that nasty little lunch or thing they thought was so horrid it was something out of a garbage can is a troll"
"contreversial yes, inflammatory yes, this does have some relevance, and is not off topic. i'm sure if you guys think hard, you might actually understand where i'm coming from. this sort of thing happens when mmo's start to sell certain things in game for real cash. in this case ccp is selling isk for money, and is it too heinous of a thought that they would actually rig the game to promote buying these?"
"fixed"
"stop posting forever"
"fixed.now go away."
"you guys must be on ccp's payroll......traitors!"
"i wish ccp would put me on the payroll for mocking idiots"
"i do that all day long for free."
"this coming from a goon......."
"agreed i like very much... :d! *amoranis gives thumbs up"
"what's the point?"
"what you are suggesting is impossible. world resource allocation can only be assigned during downtime."
"what i'm suggesting is everything that's already happening, minus a person having to fill out a form. you could have something run before downtime, if there's a r64 or sov holding pos in reinforced mode in a system that process would fill out the form and the person that currently receives them would do what they do right now and reinforce the node. there would be no change other then a person from the alliance not having to fill out the form."
"i shall be supporting this."
"what you are asking is:- add program routine that at dt scan all the systems (at least low sec and 0.0) for reinforced towers;- after finding the reinforced towers, check the moon for r64 moon minerals;- then flag those systems to the devs for reinforcement.problems:- how many thousand towers it would check every dt?- why the node of my system with several r32 moons in reinforcement should not be reinforced but the system with 1 single r64 moon should be reinforced instead?- how many systems we will see that will not the attacked but will get reinforced, reducing server resources for the rest of eve players?- how long will be the procedure and how costly in term of manpower at dt?no, thanks.edit:i hadn't noticed this:better and better, how many hundred reinforced node every day for you?so we should now add another request to oru little program:- flag every sov holding pos in reinforcement.and our poor dev should look some tens of systems requesting automatic reinforcements and decide who will get it and who will not as he can't reinforce them all. and then get the blame of helping alliance a or b if he choose wrong."
"i fixed it for you."
"you missed this part:so you nice fellow goon is asking for a scan of all the pos in 0.0 + all the pos of r64 moons in low sec.care to retract?"
"you aren't making a whole lot of sense with your argument(s) unfortunately."
"what part of:\"to fulfil this request ccp need a routine to scan all the pos in 0.0 to see if they are in reinforcement\" don't make sense?that list: \"r64 moon or sov holding pos\" include all the 0.0 pos and several low sec pos.every day severals of them are put in reinforcement.ccp has not the server resource to put teens of system in reinforcement every day without damaging all the other players.there will be a lot of false positive where the pos is put in reinforcement but no big battle follow.some dev would need to decide what system should be reinforced and what system should not, based on the resources available and other requests for reinforcements.every time some non-reinforced system see a big battle ccp would be blamed, with accusations of favouritism.so a big use of resources because someone don't want to make a request for reinforcement. not a good idea. clearer now?"
"0.checking if the moon is an r64 or hold sov (or whatever conditions you want to add/remove) could be made part of the reinforcing process. when the tower hit 25% shield, the check is run, and if it's possitive, the form is filled."
"severals? i'm loving your argument here.since you seem to have such and extensive experience working with the systems and programs used to run eve, mind if you post your resume here so we can begin deferring to your obvious expertise. otherwise if this is just more of your backseat programing of eve.....maybe you should leave what can and can't be done up to the actual people who make the game?"
"supported"
"that being true, you still have the issue that quite often there will be more auto-generated forms than nodes available to do the reinforcing with, and hence still have to be dev decisions being made, and subsequently finger-pointing about dev interference on one side or another when they did or didn't reinforce a particular node.in the current situation, the lack of available reinforcement is handled by the fact that people don't bother to fill in the form, and then the blame can be laid squarely at their feet.neither situation is great, i'll admit, but you have to realise you are forcing decisions off players and onto the dev's, to the point that they can be interfering with the outcome.i would have thought you guys of all people wouldn't want that.edit - fat finger syndrome :("
"i think that this probably will prove to be an unworkable suggestion, but i'd favour raising it to ccp to see what they think of it. they'd have a much better idea of its feasibility than we would."
"i fully support this idea. let ccp decided the if it's doable or not."
"current situation: when looking up a solar system in the people and places screen, you aren't informed how far away anything is nor which region it is in. this causes extra confusion when looking for two similarly-named systems. the top one? the bottom one? which is it? the only way to figure it out is to either pull up the map or set destination to each one and see where it leads.proposed solution: provide the region name of solar system and/or the number of jumps in the search results window.pros: this fix will save extra steps in figuring out which system is the one you want."
"this would be quite handy."
"is it possible to change the background colors of blueprint copies; so that, they are not the same as blueprint orginals. this would aid in sorting blueprints in hangers. improving the quality of game play by not having to sort through dozens of copies looking for one orginal."
"impossible"
"i am amazed some people would defend a horrible ui just to avoid agreeing with some goons. i can't see how anybody with half a brain could think that showing information already available in a more readable format could be a bad thing."
"+"
"*bamp*c'mon guys, need more support, i know we'd all love to see this fixed..."
"contact me in game, i will reimburse you for the first week."
"meeting notes, before or after the next meeting in a few days ..."
"competence of gm dept (wiki)"
"that made me laugh, and yet is sooooo true.--isaac"
"i would like to /sign this post.the font is ridiculous to read, i literaly have to limit my play time because it gives me headaches if i play too long./grovel please!"
"supportbump"
"i agree destroyers need some love, and some pretty elaborate loving at that.they should probably be split off into two categories similar to intereptors, one glass cannon and one more tankable. as a whole, they should probably be brought more in-line with other ships. as mentioned, the current implementation gets stuck with neither the right slots/stats to fit a useable glass cannon nor to fit a decent tank. a split in two would be more in line with other shiptypes, i can't think of any sub-cap ship category of which each race only has one, if i am mistaken feel free to correct me."
"bump again... sad to see so little support for this compared to other issues."
"you see so few support because most of eve has already given up using rockets, moving to something else and getting happy there - therefore not caring about rockets anymore"
"current situation: the jump clone timer is 24 hours. this restriction can create quite a lot of problems for players who have limited play time and want to utilize this time to the best of their ability. case in point you normally log in at 8pm and play until midnight. on monday you log in with a fresh timer seeking something to do. at 10pm, in another region a battle calls for your participation. you have a jump clone stored there and make the jump and have a merry good time until midnight when you log off. tuesday you log in at 8pm and discover there is action taking place in your home region. unfortunately you still have two hours to wait out the timer and have to miss out. proposed solution: i propose that a new skill be added that reduces the jump clone timer by at least hourly (two max, per level in skill) increments. it can even be a rank 10 (or higher) skill. the purpose here is to give players a little more flexibility if they're willing to train for it. pros: it will create an isk sink as players will buy the skill to gain more flexibility.pvp participation will benefit from the change since players can jump in/out of implants more easily or to a far away region more frequently. cons: increasing fun isn't a con."
"i think a good solution might be to be able to jump twice within a 48 hour period. this allows people to conduct business and come back while still limiting clone jumping to the same number of overall jumps. takers?"
"is it just me or are goons actually making sensible, well-thoughtout forums posts now? /me faints"
"no."
"this idea is excellent, please implement it."
"i support the general principle, although i think this is a better solution than a skill to reduce the cooldown."
"i raised this during csm1, but was rejected by the csm.i'd like to see it."
"i especially like the twice in 48h principle, it feels right for some reason. the skill to reduce time might be an interesting alternative.i could even see both being implemented. if there is anything game-breaking about it, please feel free to post it, but i can't think of it."
"actually, probably 80% of goon threads in assembly hall have been serious, and 100% of avalloc's. even the jesters of eve have problems with parts of the game that they'd like to see fixed."
"24 hours is too damn restrictive, you have to make the decision if your going to spend your entire day in 1 clone or another. i think 6-12 hours would be much more reasonable.a lot of people hate having to clone jump out for a 2-3 hour corp op and then get stuck there for the next 21 hours....."
"no. jump clones do not need a buff. --isaac"
"sorry, but what's that timer for again? ah, less pvp. well, we want this game to become carebearland no?remove that lame timer already. no need for a skill, just get rid of it already!/support"
"me too :3supportin ma goonie brosef"
"i can see 30-60 minutes per level, but more than that is ridiculous."
"so, why not? unfair trading advantage for market manipulation, people can very easily get as many free alts as they want to sit in varios regions to check market prices.quick travel from region to region so someone can pop from empire out to the middle of no where at a moments notice? ya cause a 6 or twelve hour timer is going to be soo much less effective at this then a 24 hour timer."
"this ^^ :)"
"yes"
"support"
"i'd support the original, but i like the quoted idea better."
"wwise? why that explains a lot..."
"current situation: to switch between characters on the same account the user must restart the game or exit out to the login screen. there is no way to esc out to the character selection screen. proposed solution: i propose that ccp add a button in the esc menu for backing out to character selection screen. pros: it will save time for players who wish to switch between alts without having to relogin completely. cons: there may be some coding challenges for ccp to make this request a reality."
"supporting the hell out of this"
"i think this was requested a month or so ago, but yes, i support it fully. also, i'd prefer options to back out to either login and to character selection - both would be time-savers in different circumstances."
"i support this, as long as you can't switch chars when you have an aggression timer, or otherwise use it as a replacement for logoffski tactics. this is a nice touch that will make dealing with alts just a little bit less tedious."
"yes please."
"yes!"
"hell yeah"
"this."
"all my thumbs goon sir"
"/signed"
"i think this is the first time i support one of avalloc suggestion without any if and but."
"definitely"
"i was looking through my interface today thinking to myself it would be great if they had personal wallet divisions. everyone is for it, no one will be against one extra way to organize their things!"
"the new cosmos system will provide out-of-game access to ingame mail, contacts and chat functions. as detailed in this post, i believe ccp should not make up their own api to access these functions, but rather should use smtp/imap for mail access and xmpp (jabber) for contacts and chat.re-using smtp/imap/xmpp means that community developers do not need to waste development time writing new mail and chat programs to access this eve-related content. every platform that can run eve already has access to clients for these protocols. many phones and other internet devices also have compatible clients either pre-installed, or readily available for download. this is much better than having n eve players write n clients for n platforms.smtp/imap means we can use the out-of-game mail tools that are vastly superior to what we currently have. isk spammers could be prevented from abusing this system by rate-limiting access from trial accounts, or by only allowing mail that would not attract a cspa charge via the smtp service. client-side filters and spam blockers may make isk spam via mail even less attractive than it is now. security-conscious/paranoid players may even choose to use the openpgp or s/mime support in their mail clients if they feel it is necessary. xmpp would not only allow out-of-game chat and contact list functions, but could also be bridged to in-game chat with the use of a transport. naturally, this transport would not allow access to the three location-dependent system chat channels since an out-of-game client has no location in the eve universe. it would open many new possibilities, from allowing small groups of friends to talk to each other even if they aren't all playing at the same time, to large alliances announcing emergency ops to their members who may be available, but just not logged into eve at the time.both of these systems can be implemented as a \"walled garden\", which prevents interaction with out-of-game implementations of these same systems. this means that out-of-game spam, both incoming and outgoing, would not be an issue."
"very much supported.altho the google wave federation protocol would be better."
"yeah, wave looks like it will be pretty nice, and someone suggested it in the same dev blog comments thread. but i didn't suggest it because i don't think it has been released/declared production ready yet. then again, it might be by the time cosmos gets released."
"the protocol itself is fully documented and only needs to be implemented.edit:actually:"
"1. it breaks immersion2. email clients are stupidly over-complex for this purpose3. they would have to implement the smtp stack on top of tq either way. and smtp isn't a simple protocol.the chat-system already uses an irc-like protocol. so nay."
"1. which whatever ccp is implementing with cosmos already does, so that's a moot point.2. an email client is only complex if coded to be complex, obviously ccp would provide it's own evemail client with cosmos, so that's also a moot point.3. not to argue semantics, but smtp itself is by definition simple, the only thing complex about smtp are it's various extensions, most used to prevent spam, since this would be a closed system not directly linked to the internet with authentication, those extensions needn't be implemented, making this also a moot point, especially with the existance of multiple bsd licensed smtp libraries.how do you come to that conclusion? link to a documentation/source for this.furthermore just because it's irc-like doesn't mean it can easily extended to out of the game without reinventing the wheel or missing functionality."
"1. any out-of-game access to in-game data will be immersion breaking, whether it be by cosmos webmail, a real email client, or by a half-arsed evemail client written for a proprietary api. at least allowing real clients results in less effort on the part of the community, and lets the player access their data exactly the way they want to.2. nobody is saying you have to use the most expensive, over-developed synergy-enhanced enterprise groupware mail client. i'm sure you will be able to find an email client that is as simple as you want it to be.3. most of the least-simple parts of smtp deal with server-to-server communication, which doesn't apply to a walled garden. and the idea is that the developers could find a way to use an existing smtpd or library to use. the in-game client wouldn't have to use this smtp server anyway, it could just bypass it and inject mail straight into the mail store. the point of smtp would be for the use of out-of-game clients.the cosmos chat system that hasn't actually been implemented yet?"
"supporting this."
"+1maybe offer openid based on the eve accounts aswell.edit: forgot the checkbox^^"
"from what i know it is a direct effect of chaining. unbroken chains don't spawn faction ships. if the player that had farmed the chain leave and a new player take his belt he will (usually) continue to farm the big bs spawns. and so not getting the faction spawns. as hearsay systems heavily chained get a temporary drop in the chance of good spawns, so if you break the chain after hours of chaining the chances of a faction spawns are lower.dt reset all that so the chance of a faction spawn reset. it is all based on the players behaviour. if you can convince people that a better chance to a faction spawn is better than chaining the triple bs spawns you will get your wish and have the same chance at all the hours. if they prefer to keep the sure income of the big triple bs spawns the chances stay low."
"about time.."
"good ideas.."
"also agreeing here - don't like the mystic hoohar generators that magically make higher level rats spawn (because of falcon?) but the rest of the post is do this! do this now!"
"good one"
"isk/h and risk/isk ratios in 0.0 are less than lvl4's from what i understand yes.however, i'm not sure that looking solely at ratting and improving that is the answer.firstly, the truesec thing. does it actually work that way? in that case most of fountain is also \"broken\", i've gotten plenty of 1.85m triple spawns and just a few days ago one of my corpmates had a officer spawn in what i think is a -0.09 system (z30s-a in fountain) which if i understand the argument is not enough to get that kind of spawns.secondly, removing the \"crap\" spawns and replacing them with battleships only might have other consequences as it will probably result in a large increase in minerals from reprocessing which in turn makes mining less good in 0.0 as well.so while i agree that 0.0 needs to be more profitable on the individual level (and possibly also change the sop for running alliances from the \"hold prom/dysp\" to something more interesting), this mainly to allow more people to live in the space without it being crowded. i'm highly skeptical about boosting ratting is the way to go."
"we're keeping track of faction and officer spawns on our forums and they do pop up in chained systems. it does seem that there's a disproportionate number appearing after downtime before any chaining can take place, but it doesn't seem that chaining in itself prevents the spawns from appearing."
"maybe my wording isn't clear as i am not native english speaker, but:1) if you have a chain in a belt that chain (in my experience) don't change to a faction spawn when the bs respawn;2) every belt you lock with a chain is one less belt that can't spawn a faction.is something wrong in my statements? i acknowledge it is possible that they are wrong, i don't like chaining so i have done it rarely."
"do this, now.i'm even supporting the pos mods to change truesec. although the amount of truesec change is what i would argue against. it would make holding even bad 0.0 for extended periods of time good, but a maximum benefit of -0.4 or even -0.3 would suffice to fix the issue without destroying a good reason for people to want to invade better space. none of this \"make it -1\" module crap."
"supported"
"supported for the same reason."
"i've had both faction and hauler spawns appear in belts while i was shooting a regular spawn. it doesn't happen often, but i've seen it on at least a dozen occasions.edit: that's part of the reason i chain worthwhile (value 3m+) spawns. in the end, it's a matter of personal preference. if cruiser spawns are eliminated from 0.0, and possibly the respawn time reduced, there could be less reason to chain than there is currently for those who believe as you do."
"a further question, those spwans, spawned or warped from another belt?in my experience hauler spawns have the habit to warp between belts after spawning. i had even regular spawns warp between belts occasionally (i recognized them from the damage i already had done and the spawn being short of the ship i had destroyed). no idea about faction."
"the amount used /rig will decrease, but more rigs will be used. the price may go down, but it could also stay the same or go up."
"100%/50%/25% is a good compromise imo."
"the initial high demand and speculation will make prices go up for sure. but over time, as ship after ship that were rigged continue to sit in the hanger and market demand normalizes, it will likely fall below current prices."
"hits the issue perfectly!- derhund"
"i've had reasonably positive experiences with the gm's so far, but when i speak in alliance chat and find out that different gm's cannot even agree on a single issue...something has to be done.for instance, a reasonably well-known example is the capships in hisec issue. even though several legal ones are flying about (chribba's veldnaught for example), different gm's will tell you different things on the issue. in any support system, the same question should always receive the same answer. telling someone no once and yes the next time will create a 'spoiled child' effect where players will keep petitioning until they find a gm that will grant their request/give them the answer they want. they then have a screenshot proof and create a precedent.so yeah, improvements are a good idea!"
"are you honestly giving ccp \"company advice\" on how to hire and train it's staff?who the **** are you? do you know anything? i hate sky, but i haven't given them a seminar on who to employ."
"i support this discussion."
"about a month and a half ago i was mission running in my paladin i was taking too much damage so i went to warp away. now. i had enough armor to sustain a while but it was getting broken so i wanted to get out and come back in at a better range. i got the message \"you ahve somehow overloaded you cargohold and cant warp\" thats not the exact wording but that was the general meaning of it. i checked my cargo i had nearly 1000m3 availjettisoned a crystal to see if that needed to reset it for some reason still nothing. long and short of it my paladin got blown up due to a game bug. now. i dont usualy petition losses. ive lost carriers in sea of lag and been blown up before the grids even loaded but havent petitioned the losses as i knew they were the risks of going into combat.this one i cant let slide though. i petitioned it origionally on the 26th of june 2009 at 18:31 29th of june 2009 at 07:45 i got a reply \"we are sorry to hear about your ship loss. unfortunately we are unable to reimburse the ship as our server-side logs do not indicate that a bug/error within the game or a server related problem was the reason for your loss\"i coudlent beleive what i was seeing. i asked for it to be escilated. on the29th of june 2009 at 13:392nd of july 2009 at 00:24i have escalated your petition and your case will be reviewed by a senior member of our staff as soon as possible. i wait for a response. 13th july 2009 at 15:10hi, senior gm retrofire here. i've checked all logs relevant to this case and after doing so i regrettably must concur with gm horse's decision. your loss was due to normal game mechanics and thus we are sadly unable to reimburse. 18th july 2009 (i get off holiday)i plea my case and reinstate what happened again21st july 2009hi. if you check your own combat logs for that time you can see that the message was sent, however due to the amount of damage messages being sent to you it disappeared quite quickly so you must have missed it completely. best regards, senior gm retrofire i ask for another escilation28th july 2009hi, senior gm spiral here. thank you for your update. before we escalate further, could you please review the logs available to you on your system and give us the exact time stamp and wording of the cargohold message you received? 29th july 2009i reply i have just looked for the logs and my system dont seem to have any before the date of 11th of july and this petition has been going well over a bloody month now. the customer service i have received has been dispicable. the words i remember were \"you have somehow \"overflowed? overfilled?\" your cargohold\" i cant remember much else of the message all i remember is checking my cargo and seeing about 800m3 free i jettisoned something and still nothing. 1st of august 2009thank you for your update. the petition has been forwarded to the lead gms for review. please be patient as it can take several days for them to review and respond to your petition. best regards, senior gm spiral eve online customer support team 7th of august 2009hi. lead gm fate here. i apologize for how long this has taken. i have reviewed your case and i'm afraid that i have come to the same conclusion as the other gms that have investigated this. our logs do not show anything out of the ordinary from around the time you lost your ship. before we can replace any ships, items or isk we have to be able to fully verify that a server issue or a gameplay bug directly caused the loss. since there is no way for us to do that here we are going to have to regretfully decline your reimbursement request. i hope that you'll recover from your loss quickly and that you don't run into any further problems while playing eve. if you do then please don't hesitate to contact us again. we'll do everything we can to help. best regards, lead gm f"
"please do not post petitions. zymurgistso after about a month and a half ish he closes the petition. up until that point i had been very polite and patient. its not on. its certainly not fair either. anyone know of a way to continue pursuiting this?"
"to be honest, i personally would like to see insurance removed from the game, but i know perfectly well that would be detrimental to the game."
"setting the uninsured payout to 10% would not protect the newbie who doesn't know about insurance, the one demographic we _want_ to protect.i would instead suggest some gradual phasing out of insurance; where the ability of players to take out insurance at platinum is removed first, then gold insurance, etc.and once we see the effects of that, we can start looking at removing base insurance gradually. of course there would be alternatives looked at for allowing newbies to recover after losing that bs they put all their isk into."
"i swear some of the threads in the market discussion forums should be mandatory reading before the word 'inflation' or 'deflation' is ever mentioned.eve has experienced inflation over the last 2-3 years, but for the last 3-4 months we've actually experienced a deflationary period. i won't hash the details here, but prices outside t1 have been on a slow decline since apoc.insurance is not a sink, it is a faucet... always was.. always will be. even the devs have gone on record as saying as such."
"supported. frankly, remove the ability to insure anything from all characters over 6 months in age."
"the flip side of the 'insurance makes ship loss affordable so we have to carebear less' argument is that insurance is also a massive isk faucet that is probably driving a good portion of price inflation in the game."
"waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"
"insurance should be removed or changed.not because of inflation or suicide ganking but because it doesn't work in reasonably way at all as it is now."
"all this would do is hurt the little guy. the people that can't afford to loose all the ships. instead of making people use smaller ship, as you hoped, it will just make less people pvp. the people that blob bs's will keep on doing that becaseu they probably have so much isk that it dosn't matter.stupid idea."
"support"
"no"
"for awareness!"
"competent font editors could take the outlines from the original font and add the extra unicode glyphs required. heck, there may even be a unicode version of the original font out there by now.supported but, realistically, changes to the client that don't deal with game-breaking issues have a very, very low priority with ccp, so i don't expect it to change at all."
"currently local operates in 'real time' or instant mode and constellation chat operates in 'delayed mode' where players show up only if they speak in the channel.i propose that this is reversed, with local being in delayed mode and constellation being 'real time'.advantages of this:1. socializing. more people in the same chat channel (constellation) achieves greater interaction between players that might not otherwise meet.2. this provides players with a broader source of information with respect to the proximity of their friends and enemies while removing the precision that local chat currently provides.3. reduces the effectiveness of macro ratting bots that depend on local chat to operate.4. allows the use of non-standard tactics (small unit tactics, guerilla tactics) instead of the generic blobs we currently see. smaller forces can more easily skirt large blobs and attack targets of opportunity.5. great compromise between the current situation and the complete removal of local as an intel tool."
"supporting my own thread... and first!"
"i like this one, perhaps it would get constellation to see more use then it does...and as much as i like local chat as an intel source a delayed mode will probably improve the situation overall."
"this is something that's needed a fix for far too long now. supporting this suggestion."
"i agree as well. /signedas much as i'd hate to see local disappear as another weapon in our arsenal, this switch would be advantageous in each of the ways bellum has described and more.generally when a new character is started, about the 2nd or 3rd thing i do in the game is close out of constellation chat, since this chat is given to characters at a very early stage, it can act as a second, or third help channel, as well as the above stated socializing channel, as there will be plenty more people. the only problem i can foresee is the sheer amount of people that would be in the channel in certain regions (forge, sinq) and whether or not this would cause lag/server side issues trying to cramp well over 1000 people into a channel together (ccp take a look at your numbers please?). i was unaware as to the rat-bot issue with local, but there ya go, another point. bell also provides another point on tactics; where now we just see massive blobbage when there are known to be pirates/enemy players in any one system, this will provide an opportunity to lend its hand to the cautious, if they are watching gates and maintaining good recon, and, as it should be realistically, be a disadvantage to the unwary. as it is, if you see someone that rubs you wrong in local (uhh say a -10 red) you can just get out, knowing he will be looking for you, most likely. with this change you may be unawares as to who inhabits the system, even if intel got through the const. channel that there were pirates/unfavorables in the area (that system or otherwise) prompting one to stay on their toes, and watch the proper channels for further intel. on a second note of (relative) realism, the idea could be that everyone is on a universal broad-com (constellation), but the gate people either 1) have no way of relaying who is jumping here and there or 2) just dont make that part of their routine, monitoring who goes in and out, and only the customs guys and concord alert you when you have jumped into the *wrong* system (<< thats for pirates)disadvantages: intel spreading too quickly. if the channel is switched, it may very well become the community intel channel, which is advantageous to the general public, but not to those who may want to keep their movements concealed; when one person seeing them can just throw out in const: \"hey this corp/these people are moving to this place\" now the entire region knows who's going where, as opposed to knowing only when they show up in local, or if you're doing good recon, a few jumps before.edit: no i take the whole second paragraph back, i didn't realize that (duh) constellation channel is not region channel, meaning the populace would not be too extreme, and what i was saying about the intel would be null and void since it would limit the range of that intel anyway, being that its not the huge regions, so yeah, the only foreseeable disadvantage is the ability to watch for local changes :p"
"i support this idea."
"i support this proposal, and bellum."
"this would fix many of the problems with eve pvp at the moment.i can't sign this enough tbh."
"now when i afk cloak in local i would shut down farmers in 3-5 systems instead of just onebut on the down side, i will only have a chance of catching somebody when i enter new constellation, cause all the other farmers will get safe in advance"
"what? there's a constellation chat?"
"totally agree with partition existing freighter holds to accommodate a ship hangar. it would be great to be able to select the conversion rate between cargo and hangar space but a fixed amount would be cool too.also support a completely separate ship to haul rigged ships with.would be nice to be able to transport 5 rigged battleships. 10 would be even better!"
"couldn't we just make a set of containers that provide ship hangar space? like a freight container that provides 10x the m3 in sma space that you can't modify in space. while we're doing this, i would also like auditlog station containers with the same thing so that we can organize our corp hangars."
"regardless of how it is implemented, as long as it's not some orca variation i agree.why a hauling career character has to grab mining skills to get into an orca is beyond me. the only people who say it is fine are the people using the orca anyhow for mining, who do hauling on the side."
"/signed"
"yea!!!damn type killers!!!"
"best would be, if one could toggle it per channel. i wouldn't want to show it in local, as wartargets shouldn't really know when im afk cloaking ;). on a totally unrelated topic: afk cloaking should be dealt with, but not by afk icon shown in local."
"oh look i agree with tortugan for once! the wonder"
"adding a requirement of liquid ozone but keeping it at just 1 unit strikes me as a deliberate move by ccp; it would be interesting to get some feedback to confirm.as for the proposal itself, sorry, not supported. a little death penalty never hurt anyone. /ben"
"supported, random change is random..."
"no one minds the cost, the objection is that the pod is incapable of paying said cost.supported."
"sorry can't support this one.make sure your clone is set to wake up in the right station and suicide back to your ships. i agree that the 1 ozone requirement is annoying, but i'm also of the opinion that a jump bridge with 0 fuel shouldn't be allowed to jump anything through regardless of size. quite honestly if your in a battle with jump bridges nearby your logistics team should have fueled that jb and have spare fuel waiting in case its needed. in case of small gang pvp, everyone in the gang should be carrying some liquid ozone, enough to at least jump their own ship through 2 bridges, and surely not everyone in your gang died."
"supported"
"its hard to overlook the humor factor though."
"game needs more titan losses"
"i'm all for stupid people doing stupid things, but losing something to poor design is infuriating for anyone. supported!"
"this is like system scanner's analyze and recover probes buttons that are side by side.but so much worse."
"i agree with the sentiment, but i'm not sure if your principles are the right ones. put simply, i want different weapons to feel different. the laser cap use bonus on amarr ships should be thrown overboard and replaced with something useful - give lasers a good overall set of stats, but make them cost cap like whoa. reallocating that bonus will make them still be plenty worthwhile, i expect. then give amarr ships the cap to use them properly. after that, sort everything by range/damage - blasters, autocannons, pulses, artillery, beams, railguns, in that order. blasters should do far more dps than any other weapon, and have bugger all range - boost their dps probably 20% over current. autocannons should track far faster than any other(to go along with the minmatar speed focus), maybe give ac a smaller sig resolution than other weapon classes for a \"free\" tracking bonus, and their current falloff-centric range is fine. actually, if it wouldn't confuse people, i'd be tempted to give autocannons a negative range so that they start in falloff, and give them better raw dps to compensate. pulses should be similar to current, maybe with a small nerf. long-range should be the same but in a different order - arty will do awesome dps over shortish ranges(though with good falloff), and it should win on tracking. beams should do middling dps and have middling range. rails should have extreme range and mediocre dps. in practice, fits will probably serve to synch these up, because they all have to fly in fleet together - rail fits will use more damage mods, arty fits will use more tracking computers. that's fine, as long as they're balanced so that a mael, a rokh, and an apoc are all usable in the same fleet at the same time without anyone getting mocked for bringing the wrong one. that said, theorycrafting aside, i like the principles behind this proposal. you approach it from a different angle than i do, but it's a reasonable method of looking at it. supported."
"i hate to say it, but your entire post smacks of lack of understanding of gunnery mechanics. as a result, you've got a series of statements here which are mutually exclusive. ignoring other factors like tracking and sig radius, optimal range simply means \"up to this range your guns do 100% of their damage\"; it isn't the range at which they do their best damage. likewise, falloff is simply a linear drop-off in your damage, out to 50% damage at one falloff past your optimal range. taking that into account, it should be easy to see how you can't have, for example, a blaster ship that outdamages everything in its optimal very short optimal yet also a pulse laser ship also outdamaging everything.while large weapons certainly need to considered, ignoring existing game mechanics (or drastically reworking them as would be required for your suggestions to actually work) probably is not the best way to do it."
"actually, i understand the gunnery mechanics fairly well. at optimal + falloff you aren't doing 50% of your damage...according to the current system, you're actually doing 38%, because your hit quality is reduced as well (something that also works against projectiles). i used statements instead of specific recommendations to leave the specifics up to ccp.it is possible to have weapons that do the best damage at their ranges. if blasters have unmatched damage and the tracking to back it up (they don't, currently), and if pulse lasers and acs had the same damage, but acs has such an advantage on tracking that at 10km they were doing more of their damage than lasers are, that would be balanced. in any case, it seems like people aren't understanding my original proposal very well. how about i use graphs, instead. the follow is all three races tier 3 ships with close range guns, with no damage mods or enhancements. each is using their highest damage t1 ammo. the target is moving at max bs speed (a paltry 130m/s. or you could consider it having its mwd on).please visit your user settings to re-enable images.as you can see, two weapons have zones of superiority, and projectiles just suck compared to everything. these are on ships that each have 8 turrets, each have one bonus to the weapons.the following image is what i would considered balanced. i increased blaster tracking dramatically, increased projectile damage a good amount and optimal slightly, and didn't touch lasers. if you notice, everything i said in my original proposal is true about this graph.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.blasters now absolutely murder anything in their short range, lasers have unmatched damage at range, and projectiles now have to outrange blasters to kill them, or rush in on lasers to kill them. please keep in mind these are just supposed to be examples. i really don't want to tell ccp how to do this, i just ask that the damage curves give each ship a fighting chance at a given range. what i have above is only one set of changes that would make something balanced, there's a dozen ways ccp could do it. edit: oh and herschel, i think we're arguing the exact same point with different words ;) i don't want each turret system to be the same, and want them to keep their respective \"feel.\" but if you follow the logic in my first post, it ends up going (damage<-->range): blasters, acs, pulses, artillery, beams, rails."
"so the slowest races battleships all get wtfbbq'd if any of the other battleships close with them?"
"currently, ac ships get wtfbbq'd at all ranges in comparison to lasers. currently, if a blaster ship gets the drop on a laser ship, it can beat it.i don't think you're taking into account how small the difference in speed between battleships is.the slowest battleship is the apocalypse. it goes 94m/s.the fastest battleship is the typhoon. it goes 130m/s.thats 36m/s difference, 180m/s difference if you both use mwds. if you both use mwd to stay in your best range, you'd have a full minute of superior damage before it caught up to you. and due to mwd sig radius, you'll have better quality hits at any moment the projectile ship isn't at 100% transversal to you. if you're both tanked, you'll have more effective hitpoints.a typhoon is also never going to be able to orbit an apocalypse (since the nano nerf, at least), which means if you're fighting, it will never have 100% transversal either and you'll have better hits. web the phoon, and you'll be doing better damage.tldr:no. an amarr ship won't get owned constantly because other ships are faster. but there should be a good chance that other ships can kill it if they can close the distance in time. that's balance.using the new curve above, an amarr ship isn't going to get killed by projectiles any more often (and it definitely wouldn't be killed faster) than it currently will if it fights blasters."
"you know, even if the dps graphs were laid out just like you want it, looking at the ranges on it, the amarr ships would still make the best rr battleships, simply because once you start getting 8+ battleships on each side all of the amarr ships will be able to hit the primary where as the range on the blasters and even the ac's leaves them lacking. however the amarr principle of war is designing ships for fleet work, its pretty obvious there battleships are not designed to be flown solo.i think blaster boats need a acceleration boost not necessarily a top speed boost, but if you boost there agility too much there align times might be a unfair advantage."
"the duct tape is strong with this onesomething has to be done... supported"
"current situation: a fleet commander has no quick (and easy) way to know the composition of the fleet he is leading. in fact the popular way of taking stock is to say in gang, \"everyone in a battleship x up\" which is a low tech as it gets. counting ships via the overview or short scan isn't perfect either because pilots that aren't in system won't be counted. proposed solution: that a new tab be created in the fleet window ui (or elsewhere) that is only visible to fleet commander and/or gang boss. this list would show a breakdown of all pilots grouped into sections based on the ship they're currently piloting. if they aren't in system their ship type wouldn't be counted to save on server load. this list would be created as a person joins the fleet and would only need to be updated when a ship is destroyed. or the pilot undocks from a station. example:battleships 20apocalypse 10[pilot name] [pilot name]megathron 10[pilot name]battlecruisers 3etc.and updates each pilot to capsule section as soon their ship is destroyed.pros: the fleet commander can focus more on strategy and the battle than wasting time counting ships and figuring out how many are being lost. cons: it could potentially create more lag depending on how much the database calls affects server."
"supported, but don't most large fleets organise themselves into support/bs/cap wings anyway?"
"^even with a 50 man fleet of subcaps you will still have a wide variety of ships in your fleet."
"it'd probably be ugly trying to find a way to present this data usefully, but it'd be less ugly than the mechanisms fcs can use currently. supported, at least in theory."
"its a good idea on the list of suggestions to uihopefully ccp will put some dev time into this soon, and bring our antiquated ui into 2009 also kind of off-topic but related to ui my suggestions;"
"great idea"
"i use my wallet for this purpose. since you can't adjust corp orders someone else has set(for some stupid reason), your wallet lists every order you can modify, which is 98% of the ones you need to care about. it sits in its own window, so no tab-hopping."
"every market order has an orderid, which is sent to the client with the market data. presumably, the orderid is sent for each order in your personal and corp order lists. your client also gets notified each time a personal or corp order is changed. the obvious solution would be to keep a cache of both of those lists on the client side, and correlate them with the market data there. no extra server-side processing required."
"actually i do the same in most cases. but it requires adjusting both windows to a size that they do not overlap much to avoid window-hopping. well, we are talking only about a few mouse clicks less and improving the overview a bit, so maybe peanuts, but perhaps also peanuts to program this feature."
"man, someone's upset about not being on the csm anymore"
"maybe the op would consider mass momentum warp lag. e.i. \"the bigger the ships mass the longer it takes to get full speed during warp. just a thought."
"yeah, that would be a good idea to make eve bigger again. on shorter warps, e.g. interceptors can't take advantage of their warp speed because the acceleration takes too long."
"no shoot it!i really don't see what ppl are on about with this \"issue\", it's like seeing pos is an affornt to their religion or something.making pos have to be online at all times breaks the profitability of *many* areas of the game.take for example a rorqual used for compression.* the compression costs fuel for the rorqual.* while the rorqual needs a pos to sit at for the duration.* now lets say it's a monthly job.* the pos just got made to cost 10000x more in fuel by having to be online for no reason at all.* while you were already losing a lil isk by compressing.* meaning you scrap that profession.* meaning others can't find minerals as cheaply.* meaning your ship costs go up and you can't afford to buy a bs to shoot at an offline pos :-p"
"it requires only one t1 hauler to get pos up. to take down even offline pos takes more people and lots of time while alerting owner and placing themselves to be shot.offline pos should unanchor, blow up or just disappear or be otherwise completely free to take. it would be only reasonable. it isn't so difficult to keep them fueled if you really want."
"just shoot it, or pay someone else to shoot it.you guys are complaining about off-lined pos's. it's off-line just shoot it.with it being offline you don't have to worry about stront timers, and with recent changes all mod currently anchored around the pos become yours once the tower is taken down. so suck it up, spend some isk, get some bs's and go take that tower down instead of begging the developers to do it for you cause your too lazy to do it yourself. empire pos's generally have labs worth 90 mil each, low sec pos's will have assembly arrays or reactor arrays, if there is a sma, you may just get free ships as well. eve is a game of risk, if your not willing to take the risk you should not have the rewards."
"thisnot supported"
"dawg be trollin, but dawg i give a dawg heads up on what: dawg limitin what dawgs can say and feel where a dawg be at aint no fix for nothin broke dig. its call democrasy learn an love it. dunno if a dawg kno it but eve is a thin whats made in usa an uses usa stuff like buyin and sellin and indapendan enterprise. its why re-re posse a success. dig it. (vote kuzim 2010 him a dawg what fights for democrasy)lets keep it clean dawg an on topic.dig it, just one thin what a dawg can fly aint enouf. a dawg need more, an reaper is a good example of one what needs to be it."
"just because"
"supported"
"someone needs to put this dawg down before i start kicking puppies.can yah dig that?"
"haha you would give the forum mods the power to exclude people from the csm. i am so glad you are not a representative anymore"
"bad idea because people have different standards for behaviourhowever certain parts of forum should require posting with \"real\" accounts/characters. i see no point one week old trial guy posting ideas he got while playing world of warcraft in features and ideas for example :pand well... caod is caod, it seems pretty fine tbh."
"we should also formulate a type of educational facility for people who cannot read the in game messaging systems... right?"
"they couldn't afford us."
"so you think that because they created a method for letting players trade game time, they now have an incentive to ruin their own game? that's moronic. it's not like selling plex gives them extra money - ccp just sees it as people paying for game time, in-game transactions to separate the payor from the recipient are irrelevant to their bottom line. i think they could afford me, but apparently rewriting the game code to make it all work properly is \"too expensive\". bunch of whiners, imo."
"off topic. locked."
"trolledas stated in the above thread this was my way of cutting down on the practice. while i don't agree with it as such, i won't raise a hand to stop it from happening. why? it's going to be extremely hard to regulate, if it's not allowed to be public then it will just be forced underground."
"please show us the meeting notes."
"lets talk about subcaps docking in capitals (or supercapitals)"
"do not change the trasher. make the other ones as good (but still different) as the trasher."
"and you see so many people bumping it because we're mad as hell and we're not gonna take it any more!"
"my comet wants effective rockets."
"bump for fledgling vengeance pilot"
"no, you are not escaping page 1"
"not supported.the galaxy is already too easy to traverse thanks to jump clones (among other things) without making it even smaller. if anything, jump clone timers should be increased, not the other way around./ben"
"what does jump cloning have to do with market prices?you must be in the wrong proposal... i suggest you search for those threads to do with market price checks and alts and not here.people use jump clones to jump to 0.0 and back to high sec or other high sec areas.this unfair advantage your talking about? is that the best argument you can come up with?i suggest you check out the trading skills... and then realize that you can only have 3 toons per alt.now please...move along... you made your vote of support..stop being a troll.personally jump clones are too easy and make the game way too small.lessening the time can make it worse... taking it away however is not so nice as i use them myself.24 hours is more than adequate.... it forces you to plan ahead.if your unable to plan.... don't come crying to us."
"although your point is extremely valid i tend to disagree - yes it will make the eve universe even more accessible; but i don't think it would damage / change the game mechanics, if anything it would just make it more funben / other non supporters - just to add in, i am not necessarily saying you are wrong - eve is a community based game so it's important to see the most popular preferences from both sides."
"i agree with this. not supported."
"my name is saju somtaaw, and i approve this message."
"i'd love to have a savings wallet!"
"sounds good"
"i can't even use t2 sentries yet, but i thought it was a bit ridiculous when i laid a skill plan out that all i have to do is get one skill up to v.definite +1, and agreeing that the sentry skill damage mod needs to be dropped in favor of the spec damage."
"this would be so awesome."
"horrible npcs are horrible: cheating, permajammed by guristas and all that crapp, this has to go."
"anything!!it's so bad.edit: btw there is another part to this..... some bpos bug and won't unlock/lock so every 40,000 mouse clicks or so you have to spend a week explaining to a gm that it's a \"known issue\". after the first 5 replies they usually start to understand."
"many business use some along these lines to protect there networks. i would love something like this for home. my only concern would be i wouldn't want to have to get one for each account."
"1. what the hell does waiting 10mins for evemail to load and then not being able to see who sent you the msg you're reading have to do with immersion? are you suggesting the existing completely broken evemail interface is somehow immersive? *whatever*.2. email clients are what you make them. i'd be using gmail, what would you use?3. secondlife managed to implement pop3 accounts for every single primitive object in their world, every table, every chair has it's own email alias.very much supported.it will be a major disappointment if cosmos come out as an amateur attempt. there are so many very fantastic social platforms and communication techs around at the moment, the design paradigms being used commonly are so clean and so usable. it would be a travesty if cosmos is half-assed. do it right or don't do it at all, i don't think i can take the disappointment."
"was thinkin the same thing, but then wouldn't want an openid path into my eve account.would be nice for account linking and cross-posting, but not for authentication.edit: oh you mean provider rather then relay partner..."
"yes. openid provider."
"openid would make oauth tokens for the eve api a logical step."
"1.0"
"the only problem i see is that i don't have more accounts to support this with"
"sounds awesome."
"no way to know if they came from others or just spawned, but i think the latter.in my experience, all spawns (normal, hauler, faction, and on up to officers) will warp off \"randomly\". gate spawns seem to only warp to other gates, and belt spawns seem they only warp to other belts, though.it seemed to me sometime after they removed npc's from the directional scanner (early 2007), warping off increased in frequency. that may or may not have increased again with apocrypha 1.0 this year. this is only personal observation and highly subjective. it may be true that nothing has changed at all, although i tend to doubt it."
"i support this. there are many \"useless\" 0.0 system as now. and low-sec is only gate camp or pirates shooting each other."
"do."
"100% supported"
"0.0 and lowsec ratting(there should at least be a few battleships =/) should be looked into."
"/signed"
"supportin' in da' topic!"
"awesome idea"
"who are you again? maybe you should post more too so i can care enough to get clever with the insults."
"you know, we can stop posting in this thread now. why? because the rig update is going through and there's not a god-damned thing you or anyone else can do about it, no matter how much you whine. if ccp decide to try changing part of the game, saying \"no, we don't want anything to change, we want things to stay the same!\" is hardly going to dissuade them."
"its item sink but not isk sink.you dont get it."
"don't overload your cargo next time."
"i agree that 'some' of the gm's have not got a clue re game play however i do believe you are flogging a dead horse,even if a black hole formed, frapsed by 100 people then the black hole subsequently destroyed your ship the logs will always say ' nothing on heretbh i think they refer to the logs stacked outside of ccp hq - however joking aside you wont win on this issue nor will it ever be listened to or discussed outside of whatever nursery some of the gm's work in, the only hope is appeal to their parents but every child likes to follow in their parents footsteps so dont hold your breath"
"someone at ccp needs to review their customer service department"
"at the best of times the gms of eve online have made the corruption in the olden days of uo look like honest customer support."
"it's worth at least talking about"
"/bumpplanet colonization is a great idea. ccp for help look into red mars, blue mars, green mars--the trilogy by kim stanley robinson--for a transitional framework. it provides the technical, political, economic viewpoint pro/cons etc quite well. and as well all know...all colonies rebel eventually. this would provide another level of active gaming in all sectors of the game. also--strongly consider first person shooter (think halo) with vehicle interactions and player-created colonies aka think sims 3...have players create new species of animals and aliens on planets aka spore (create the tools and have players create content--like wikipedia), and have our ships and stations not only exploit ambulatory design, but incorporate slots on ships that our real life friends can use as a party. then make the smaller frigates and fighter drones usable with computer joysticks and the trackir system like you have already except \"in-capsule\" like a real fighter for more visceral space combat aka think falcon 4.0 (in space)...and you will have captured the 1) pve crowd 2) pvp crowd 3) flight sim crowd 4) the civilization sim crowd 5) the character development crowd 6) the space exploration crowd (since each planet will be interesting).more market share = more profit, which means you can invest more in game design. this is what it would take for me to love this game. this is what it would take for this game to reach the next level of success."
"supported"
"this keeps popping up from time to time, and it will probably one day get tackled and developed, but not any time soon. maybe some parts like comets to replace the x64 drama, but who knows what changes will be thought up for that.eve evolves step by step, like ccp does. this would be a huge step, and considering ccp still has a lot of smaller plans to implement it is way too early for this."
"not supported. you're suggesting introducing random chance to the game and in a game with pvp as hardcore as eve, the more random chance factors involved the worse it gets. a crystal could theoretically last years without shattering or it could shatter on the first shot, depending on your luck."
"look the post aboveseem more a nerf than a boon to crystal users.a option to eject damaged crystals remotely or when in a unfriendly station would be much more useful."
"introducing random chance? isn't this the game with a module that has a random chance of shutting down enemy targeting for 20 seconds?"
"this is something that should already exist, so needs to be added soon."
"we need to be able to customize the font(s) just like we can customize the color schemes."
"supported. so. damn. hard."
"i support this. great idea!"
"then check the support box"
"supported"
"been a while since i've agreed with bellum, but what the hell eh."
"supported. seriously, this is a great idea. a perfect middle ground between the carebears (macro ratters) and the pvp'ers."
"you've got my vote. it would change the feel of the game away from \"chat rooms\", and make space feel a bit more vast."
"supported"
"supported for putting local in recent speakers mode."
"ehh... why not.... problem is... spamming contracts and such could get out of hand in a hell of a hurry.but it seems like a viable compromise."
"this is not a fix to the whole intel gathering issue, but is a temporal workaround. supporting it."
"supported"
"more interested in the one time password generator"
"it won't do any harm, and i would personally find it very useful. very often i need to get up and make sure my boy doesn't: 1. smash his skull2. eat poison3. chop himself to little bitsan afk indicator would be nice, so i don't have to apologize everytime this happens."
"needed"
"i'd go for it, provided the afk indicator actually does what it says to do ... showing an afk status when idle. not when a pilot says he is, but is in fact ratting like mad during a cta."
"yeah. just wait til that one guy in the pod in front of you jumps though. and your carrier gets stuck by 1 ozone. i mean its a stretch. but knowing this game its happened at least once."
"the problem:currently, you can setup a contract to a single pilot, a corporation, an alliance, or everyone. when using contracts internally within a corporation, single pilot is too limited. a contract to the entire corporation is too broad. we may not want just anyone in the corporation to move that 50 million tritium. yes, we would be able to tell who ripped us off, but i would rather limit who has the option to do so from the beginning.the solution: corporation divisional contractsthere are two ways i can see this being implemented, both being acceptable solutions. it could also be taken a step further and both solutions could be added.option 1: contracts to titlescontract issuer would get an option to setup contract to one of the corporation titles, limiting it to a group of preset members. this option would provide the most flexible solution in terms of what a corporation could do. directors and ceos would be considered having all titles. accepting pilot would still get the option between accepting it so items go into his hanger or accepting for corp so items go into deliveries.option 2: contract to divisionthis option is a little bit more limited as contracts to the corporation would only have seven options for groups; name of group would be set by the hanger division names. there would need to be a new role added for each division can accept contract for division.conclusion:both of these options would allow corporations to fine tune logistics making it easier to distribute materials and task. it would also help improve corporation security basically giving a key to the filing cabinet to only a selected group of pilots."
"this i like, for the idea of letting corporations run like...well, like corporations.supported"
"seems very similar to further expanding the use of corporation contracts as a sort of internal mission generator. in a limited fashion obviously, supported."
"very good idea. supported."
"supporting, because it's so bloody obvious. make them bpcs red or green-tinted instead, that'd be nice.and if ccp going to keep ignoring no-brainer proposals, we're should keep repeating them until they listen, no matter how long it takes. it's not like we're in danger of running out of internets."
"this repeating the request will not make it happen.ccp is working to a major databse overhaul but it is a thing of years not minutes as it impact a lot of other things. if it is done it will be in one of the extra large patches, something like the one that made premium mandatory, and probably the sum of the changes in a patch like that would make a number of old pc incapable of running eve."
"not to mention likely to open a can of worms.rewriting the db to that degree will open up other stupid bugs and glitches.i really wish people would stop making this stupid request.not that the request is stupid.. requesting it for the billionth freaking time is stupid."
"[proposal] cure cancerthis has got to be in here somewhere, because it is such an annoying and ridiculous issue, but i looked and looked and searched the csm website ... nothing.so, probably for the millionth time:cure cancer!! cancer kills people, sometimes this is bad. just make a drug or vaccine or whatever, but for eve's sake, cure cancer!ps. i expect cancer to be cured sometime in the next week."
"it's hard to deny that the raven state issue, apocalypse imperial issue, megathron federate issue and tempest tribal issue are possibly the most valuable ships in the entire game- worth more than a titan due to their ridiculous rarity. however, this makes them simultaneously effectively worthless- nothing more than something to brag about, because they're so valuable that they're effectively impossible to use for anything because of the risk of losing them. and the people who own the few that exist will probably never part with them; at least not for a price 99.99999% of the players in this game could ever afford. so my very simple suggestion is: begin ultra-restricted production of the ships again.not by players of course, but by the original makers. the ships aren't unique the same way that, say, the gold magnate was. their descriptions describe them as simply being the highest honours awarded by their respective empires, a valuable reward, not some legendary item of which only a handful were ever made. so why don't we just let them be issued by the empires again? what i'm proposing is that one of each ship is issued each year to a single pilot. how this pilot is determined is something i haven't quite worked out (i'm open to suggestions) but it might be a good idea to award them as ultimate rewards for contributions to factional warfare.there's really no reason not to support this proposal. the way things are, the empire faction bss might as well not exist. this suggestion won't destroy the value of them (their current value is effectively nil since their owners won't part with them but can't really use them either), but does create at least a small chance that you might some day actually see one."
"supporting my own topic of course."
"need more info as to how this 'ultra-restricted production' would take place."
"10mil lp? maybe? or maybe only available via factional warfare, for completing something extraordinary. i dunno, but i agree, there should be more of 'em around."
"they got for around 80-100bn atm. (see recent auctions/lotteries)assuming the usual 1000 lp => 1m isk. you would need 80-100m lp to reach similar values.but i think those ships shouldnt be handed out again.if you really want one, ask the current owner."
"i have an idea, how about linking them to faction warfare. as you said, they are the highest award given by the empires, how about the person that earns the most lp from faction warfare in a year gets one of those ships, depending on which faction they are working for."
"as amusing as it would be to crash the value of previously priceless ships and watch the owners of the existing models scream in horror, i'm not convinced that it is really necessary to implement a system that has no effect on 99.99% of the playerbase and drops ships that would still be worth tens of billions of isk into the lap of a handful of lucky winners.if there's a need to see more rare ships flying around in eve a better start would be to boost some of the terrible faction ships that already exist so that they're actually worth flying."
"this, although i'd wager that the guy who owns the majority of them really doesn't care about how much they're worth. still, this is the wrong approach."
"according to my friends that used to be in foff hurley actually did this. they were only moving 20 jumps though their own space though so it wasn't too bad. one minute 100 or so bs were sitting waiting for the bridge to open and the titan disappears. then they get a message about how they can either wait for his cap to recharge or just start using the stargates.oh and while we are at it can we do the same with the towers? manage and offline are right next to eachother."
"seriously?"
"pos mods at moons without towers were changed so you could unanchor them some time before apoc 1.0. i believe this was in late 2008. if a module is incapacitated, you need to repair the armor and structure damage first."
"thanks for the information. with the amount of time im afk and with what a t1 fitted bs insurance cost i think i could make quite a profit off this. charge like 100 million or whatever + i get to keep the mods and ill roll the tower. sounds like the geddon would take forever but it would be on a separate account that can just sit afk for all i care. i've heard that anchored towers don't rep shields but they get some back at dt. is this true and if so. how much?"
"really? name a single other area of the game it would break.also, how do you propose shooting a pos in highsec where the corp who owns it no longer exists?"
"i've never seen a pos owned by a dead corp. if they exist, then yes, i prefer killing them. but if it applies to live corps, no."
"oh no! think of children of dawgs. too many people just want to keep a brotha down."
"the titles, which one is attributed by the corporation management, are not shown anywhere for the own character. they are listed under the pilot name of another pilot's info, but not in the extended own character info."
"is that really important?"
"of course ...... not"
"rightclick your own ship -> show info -> click on the pilot icon, tadaa!though its a bit elaborate. an info button on your character sheet may be better, as your character sheet doesnt show everything (bounties, titles, etc)"
"maybe corp roles instead in a subgroup in the character sheet?"
"a small but reasonable thing to support"
"weren't you telling me in the other thread that minor issues could already be dealt with quickly? if so, it wouldn't seem like it should be a problem to raise one supported - other people being able to see more info on you than you can is silly."
"my point being that there's other small things which would be better to fix than this."
"supported... for the last 7 months to the year i've had \"untitled\" mysteriously stuck in my damn title space on top of anything else... or something to that affect.a more direct approach should be allowed for titles.minor yes... but it's nice to see the \"hello my name is\" badge on various people.oh and not everyone see's this glitch... but its annoying as hell when you have to answer the friggen question for the 100th time."
"drop the requirement to cynosural field theory 4pros: black ops will be used more.cons: too many cloaked fleets and more cyno alts.discuss"
"agreed."
"i prefer making underused difficult things better, not easier. not supported."
"no. if you want to be able to use this particularly powerful and specialised tool you should put some effort into it."
"let's discuss the fact you don't like having to train something to level v for the privilege of using a mod.a cyno when popped can be seen by pretty much everyone.a covert cyno however is stealthed and will not openly broadcast to everyone.somehow i think making this skill available earlier is a bad idea.not supported.as the previous poster said... put some effort to it."
"you know that covert cynos can only be used by black ops ships, right? more people capable of using covert cynos does not mean there'll be caps appearing out of nowhere to gank people."
"thank you captain obvious.i was assuming the said op wasn't that brain dead."
"not supported. black ops cynos should require high skills to implement given the strategic advantage black ops fleets offer."
"well, cov ops cynos should definetly have high skill reqs, but a bit over the top atm imo. maybe a new skill (rank 1 or 2) that need to be taken to level 5 which has cyno 4 as a pre req? only cyno 4 is not enough, but cyno 5 is a bit over the top, but we can't have it take cyno 4 and a half, so the new skill would be a way to get around that."
"no. get over it and invest the time or don't use the bloody things."
"not supported. effort is a requirement of eve."
"and how does this improve anything?all your doing is making a simple situation more complicated."
"two things: 1) bump. 2) proper wiki-type format:current situationall issues raised by the csm go through the same process, whether they are minor ui tweaks or massive overhauls of sovereignty and pos mechanics. proposed solutionallow issues to be tagged by users as \"minor\" and put through a simpler process, requiring less effort on the part of the csm and ccp. specifically, do not requitre explicit ccp answers, and have minimal time for debate. csm or ccp may upgrade an issue to normal status if they feel the \"minor\" tag is in error. prosallows more issues to be raised without clogging up the agenda and pushing important issues off.consplayers might abuse it to get their issue in without enough scrutiny."
"yes... get this done... i'm tired of seeing no responses or feedback for ideas brought forth to the csm.failure to communicate anyone?"
"even if i don't think it will keep people from asking again and again for the same supposedly minor thing to be brought at the attention of ccp for the nth time, it can help.so supported."
"yup, make it happen!"
"i considered supporting this but changed my mind. this would no doubt create a unnecessary load on the server as calculations are constantly run to track distance and adjust speed to prevent a hard collision."
"i don't see how it can require more calculations then it is now. right now, ship stops after hitting 0m distance, just adjust the distance to, say, 150m, and the ship will kill its engines at that point and will continue to slow boat until it reaches all stop. no extra calculations, and no bumps. the bumbpage is caused by ship going too close to the target, its not because it is programmed that way. at worst, you can add a set of \"stop at this point when approaching\" value to each individual ship according to their mass and speed, and thats it. there's no need for complex calculations.its a minor issue, but i support it. additionally, having a \"ram\" option would be nice.edit: numbers are there as an example only."
"changing this will have an impact on ship bumping aswell. so before you support this topic, consider also the pvp side: bumping is used to prevent ships from reaching docking / jumping range and \"docking games\" are considered an issue afaik. i'm not saying that bumping ships is a good feature, just saying that it is used as a counter to \"docking games\". therefore those 2 issues should be combined.(and i should read a thread before replying)"
"you must've read my mind. if not for that, i would support."
"in game bans is bad in my opinion, unless you have engaged in real bad behaviour like a racist post.i don't think that people should necessarily be confined to use their main only, but getting gagged on 1 character should gag all characters owned by that person on all his accounts. when it comes to forums, i believe that who ever runs this forum should have 2 main sections. one being free-speech low-moderation and one being heavily moderated. there are two things that you want to do when you go to any forum: 1) you want to get your opinion out, no matter how serious or trivial the subject.2) you want to inform yourself, without having to read through the same type of unhelpful posts over and over again. having to read yet another \"drake passive setup\", \"ninja salvaging is theft !!111!!!1\" or \"eve is dead ...\" topic / post is just a waste of time. the same goes for meaningless topic titles such as \"i had a brilliant idea ...\" or \"damn you ccp !\". a little less common is the \"how do i use mining crystals\" posted in crime and punishment, but it happens. so i support heavy moderation and more consistent and severe forum bans. in-game bans should only be applied to the most extreme cases. at the same time, some places on the forum need to remain \"free speach\" areas, where the word-filter does most of the moderation. and of course, one character ban binds all your characters."
"the wiki says meeting notes should be published within 3 days, come on guys if real life comes in between there's redundancy in secretarial positions for a reason ..."
"*whistles innocently*1: black ops and titan able to lock on pos cyno beacons<U+200E> 2: split the show effects setting into separate options.<U+200E>3: add skill which reduces jump clone timer just a little bit.<U+200E>4: improve refresh time on loading corporate hangar contents.<U+200E>5: ship fittings visible via show info without boarding ship.<U+200E> 6: store bookmark folders server-side.<U+200E>7: improve people & places search results for solar systems.<U+200E>8: improve the market ui for identifying your own buy & sell.<U+200E> 9: add the feature of switching characters without relogging.<U+200E>10: ui improve fleet commander ui by showing fleet composition.<U+200E>11: ui reduce the chances of accidental trash it in ui.<U+200E> 12: pos reduce pod fuel requirements for jump bridges back to zero.<U+200E> 13: ui separate jump to and open jump bridge further in titan ui.<U+200E> 14: faster csm process for minor issues"
"could you guys please make it so that we can tractor the wrecks/cans of other people in our alliance without having to gang them? thanks."
"you need to create a thread in the assembly hall before the issue can be raised."
"i want to point out that these issues have already been raised. so there's really no point in raising these again, given the fact that they are just going to take time from other important issues.and:that is already possible under the current system."
"most of the individual pieces are in place, yes. a process for actually seeing that they get used when appropriate doesn't seem to be."
"re-raising issues that previous csms have decided not to take to ccp is politics at work. re-raising issues that ccp has dismissed in the past or given a low priority is lobbying for reconsideration. both are worthwhile."
"after discussing it with avaaloc i removed avallocs trash it issue since that was discussed in csm1.the other issues raised by avalloc do seem to be unique after a search of evelopedia and ank's wiki."
"any chance we'll get the meeting notes of the previous meeting before this next one ...."
"yes, yes, yes."
"yes."
"/signed"
"more alts amiright? i don't know how you all see this as something good, less and less teamplay and more and more altplay. horrible, sorry avalloc won't support this one (all the rest are nice :))"
"supported.might also solve issue of being told you are in a line waiting to login. you only wanted to change character but since you had to logout you are boned."
"/signed"
"it should already be that way."
"can we get the buddy list to do the same thing as whats proposed here too?"
"1. any oog client has already given up on immersion, and this isn't a particularly immersive game to begin with. 2. the complexity of email clients is irrelevant because they already exist and have been written by someone other than ccp.3. we're talking about longstanding, ietf standards track protocols here. there are an assortment of existing implementations, foss and otherwise. ccp can pick the one that best suits their needs."
"supported. this is a basic risk vs. reward issue that is the heart of eve."
"supported, not only ratting is boring, but the rewards don't cover my pvp lossess."
"and is it just me, or did the last patch change something in ratting. i have been a ratter in providence for months, and my income has been cut in half in recent weeks. did they change something to make the systems perform better? i honestly haven't seen a good chain in a long time. this is making risking tech 2 cruisers substantial, since i have to work for a long time to cover the 200 mill it can take to buy and fit one. what's going on?"
"agree. maybe the second screen is just black or you can choose a background for it and you can place all your windows there."
"the cheaper rigs give smaller ships more versatility, making fights last longer and have a better chance at killing your opponent and survivingif we do as the op states then the bonus will be almost useless and their wont be a point to even using the smaller rigs on the ships because it wont be in the correct ratiosthumbs down from me"
"if the sproblem is really risk/benefit then the fix is not a mobile mining gun the fix is to change loot tables/ refine to increase the value of highend minerals and change the distribution of said minerals. however - if this idea goes ahead then i would propose that the gun must be tied to a ship. if that ship warps off or is destroyed than tht gun goes offline, that ship should have to target the enemy ship and order the gun to attack like a drone, and all guns should be too large for a hulk/exhumer to carry without expanders fit.mining is pretty fail right now and needs help but the last thing we need is to empower macro miners more (as they are part of the reason mining is so damaged)."
"tbh this is an awesome idea which i 100% support except for one part - shouldn't you just be required to have corp roles to access corp orbiting hubs, not alliance? (i.e. corp with most towers in system = only corp able to use/access/anchor/online these sub-stations and colonies & only requires sov 2-3 for these, not 4?)don't support the idea of a new ship class for destroying the stuff though, that should be left 100% with dreads."
"signed"
"and gun damage is random. so is overheating, so is pos targeting, so are combat boosters. in fact, production of about 95% of all t2 and every single named good are based on random chance too - no, really! scary thing is, i agree with you on this one. i just dislike ecm whining."
"you know, that's a good point and i wish i'd thought of it sooner. doesn't mean i'm wrong about random chance being a bad thing."
"i'd prefer the ability to combine damaged crystals into \"fixed\" crystals. rp wise it could be explained by taking parts of one crystal and reinforcing an another with them or something. i don't really care how it's explained in the rp aspect, i'm sure a good and satisfying explanation can be found, but it wouldn't ruin the reliability of the crystals (if they could shatter at any second, you'd have to bring extras of each type with you, so instead of being forced to carry 1-2k rounds of ammo for each gun like now, which is bad enough, you'd have to carry 2-4k rounds of ammo for each gun since you'd need a spare set just in case the first break. being able to fix the crystals would solve the issue with selling unused ammo, while still not making it impossible to know if you currently have ammo for a lifetime or just 1 shot with you."
"lol wait, a 1/1000 chance in breaking?????i would train amarr cause there's almost no way in hell you'll hit that 1/1000 chance in a looong time"
"approving message/service."
"disagree, all you are doing is moving the problem, not solving it.if you make constellation real time and local delayed, then all people will do, is close local window and open constellation, then use that for intel."
"just constellation real time is a lot more inaccurate than local. think it's a good idea, at least it's better than the current local chat. and this will make macros' life a lot harder.i pretty much like that how it's currently used in wormholes."
"i was totally against any change to the way local chat works until i read that... your proposal is awesome. it would nerf local, but boost our view of remote systems and make gatecamps more predictable. oh and... blasters forever, one day they will be fixed, bellum."
"would be nice for corp, alliance, and those in my buddy list."
"eve is a bit crowded right now, it feels like 0.0 is just an extension of empire with extra camping in npc-space, and a isk-dominated pos-spam war in sov. truth be told, 0.0 warfare doesn't feel like warfare, it feels like a glorified blow-****-up-a-thon where whoever can buy and field the most useless towers owns the space and gets resource wasting rights.simply put, 0.0 feels too small. 0.0 warfare is what eve seems to boil down to for a lot of us, and there is very little free room to roam and explore. there is a subtle romanticism about 0.0 that makes it feel open and uncontrollable, until you try to live in it, then the first alliance that happens to fly by, see a high local and scan you gets to have fun making your life a living hell. if you are in npc-space, i hope you like station games. if you are in sov-space, i hope you like endless pos bashing.the 0.0 experience needs to be revamped, and i have a few proposals. please tag on posts with what you want to see as well, cause god knows im not the only person here who plays eve and knows what they want from 0.0. :)here are a few points i find are problems or potential changes.1.somehow, you can jump 10 systems without seeing another soul, but anyone passing by, or even looking at the map, can spot an out of the way corp or alliance setting up and go beat the snot out of them. it takes almost no effort. changing the way local and map statistics work is a step in the right direction. admittedly, making eve bigger shouldn't be the highest priority. making changes to sovereignty and to general 0.0 pvp should, but eve's population is expanding, and the space is not.2.when it becomes officially necessary to start expanding eve, it should be done via periodic additions of new sov regions. this would add a great warfare component where alliances vie for new space. that would be a massive component of pvp and gameplay. massive and game-changing3.new regions farther out from empire would require a level of logistical finesse. this would majorly stimulate capital and regular production. while theoretically one could eventually produce everything they need to hold out in their own region, controlling that region would be much more difficult than it normally would. multi-stop supply jumping would become essential, keen logistics would become a necessity. warfare and space control would require many levels of competance and cooperation between alliances. (moreso than now at least)4.the game could really use the addition of advanced pos's. this is my answer to the pos spamming aspect of sov-space. right now, winning sov space is as simple as shoving a pos on every moon, filling it with stront, and amassing the proper defense when they come out of reinforced. what sov space needs is a nuance of strategy beyond what currently exists. pos's should have an important role to play in the defense of a region. i think the regular s/m/l pos's should still be around for non-sov and small corp/alliance use, just not sov. there is a strong notion going around that ccp might make pos's work off planets instead of moons, with a single reaction type per system. i like that idea and somewhat incorporate it here. after all, getting essential reactions from a single system is too easy. each pos type is an essential yet customizable component of sov control here.logistics pos: storage of supplies, maintenance of ships, bridging/cynos. effects, increased pos resistance (1% for moon pos, 3% for planet pos). cant power indie structures or cyno jamming.industrial pos: industrial functions, ie utilizing reactions, manufacturing, and refining. effects, increase gun rof (0.075% for moon, 0.2% for planet)security pos (one per system): cynojams, jump bridge, only pos that provides sov control. effects, increased shields, increased indie production speed. (0.25% moon, 1% planet)add what you will and debunk what you dont like."
"i support this subject, needless to say :)"
"^bumping with the alts."
"i much prefer the title option, but yes, this is a great idea. supported."
"qi bandwagon fan checking in."
"like both ideas myself."
"1.0"
"this needs to stop.just because you activate your missile/torpedo launcher doesn't mean you should ***** every mail. please make it so you actually have to do something to get on a mail."
"unsuccessful troll is unsuccessful."
"tissue?"
"define the phrase \"actually do something\" is a wholly objective fashion and you have an actual proposal. as it stands now, what you have is a whine."
"i can fit a civilian autocanon to my ship and ***** onto mails too...just because the target pops before the missiles get there doesn't mean the firer hasn't contributed to the fight dawg."
"if you have pilots fighting for the killmail instead of for the kill, that's your problem, not ccp's."
"i rarely agree with herschel, but he is totally right. oh and a jammer doesnt do damage either, and gets you on the mail. was it useful? oh yeah."
"remove killmails from the game completely."
"i lol'd"
"instead, just allow click/drag/move operations from the s&i interface. also, expand the s&i interface to see into \"blueprint containers\". that will fix most of the problems."
"this. if ccp really want to fix it, they should do this. i can't really see any reason it wouldn't work. also, they can do the same for the assets window while they're at it."
"maybe as an alliance tournament price."
"i fully support the idea to 'inject' those legendary ships into the game on a regular basis, with full respect to their ultra-rarity. one every year? five every year.. that's stll ridiculously rare but at least they would be 'back' out there. currently they're nothing more than archeological curios which - as the op points out - inconsistent with their description.i won't ever own any of those and i'm at peace with that :) but i dislike the idea of those ships being so rare that nobody will ever undock them or part with them."
"once per year isn't going to get people undocking in them either. as long as they're superduperrare, 95% of them won't see the outside of a station."
"there is a feature for 'broadcast location to fleet' but you don't seem to be able to warp to it unless it is a static object (gate, station, moon etc) or it seems the fleet is still there. i only did some minimal testing but it didn't do what i needed.i was looking for a way to make a list of wreck locations left by my mission runner to leave for my salvager account. so broadcast each room rather than having to meet up and drop bookmarks.i'm sure that this fleet feature could be extended so that you can drag bookmarks out of it, or right click save bookmark as?"
"supported."
"supported.yes its true a spy could easily use this to move his fleet to your position without himself ever risk becoming exposed, but then that's the game. i agree that there should be ways of communicating a set of co-ordinates to corp/fleet/alliance/local.if this is implemented it should not be restricted, as always with all information you should be careful what you say around people, if your worried about a spy then don't use that option of sharing your location. just keep in mind, a good spy knows where you are anyways."
"a ui error should never be the cause of a titan kill."
"great idea."
"in terms of the new bombs entering eve, it makes the sb a primary target when trying to take it down. true that the torps are slow and slower, the introduction of a bomb (which i'm not sure if it actually moves, because i haven't found any instructions on how to use it) plus the fact that it finally can warp cloaked, which it couldn't before apocrypha, give the little guy some very good tactical capabilities and gets far into his own, but only in 0.0 space."
"fyp. old bombers were death traps vs experienced pilots. if you want to solo frigs then buy an af or a taranis like everyone else. new stealth bombers give:valuable dps for frig gangs vs larger ships at stand off range.excellent lulz in the form of bombs.ability to warp cloaked."
"all they need is bomb use in lowsec and empire."
"supported, if someone doesnt care about their tower enough to keep em unfueled for months remove it."
"i believe in this instance you can petition to have it removed."
"supported. they should either un-anchor or degrade over time, so that they can be killed by smaller and smaller forces the longer they sit there."
"dont get lazy. if you want something you have to work for it. work hard i mean."
"[undawg]the form of the post is rather ignorant and does not state a clear purpose but let me try to put it in english:there should be a way for any class of ship to nullify a warp disruption bubble.[/undawg]dawg"
"him jus dont like pups dawg, him make a posse seem all elite but dawg even crips need a dawg what push a drugjust to fund thugzeven if dawg it be shrooms or nugzbut dig it pups who be on on da ladderhelp high up dawgs be a slaveh who be phatteran go woop woop like tehy kinda of mad hatterruinin the homes of dawgs who soon get sadderbut other dawgs, to they it dont matterso dig it bubblz make some places be slowan build some places into a gettohtoss a dawg in jail even on deth rowan dawgs choose ignorance rather than be in the knoim here dawg, wearin a mad dawg faceface-to-face talkin bout a placewhere dawgs be down wit da soundsay yes to da mad dawg's proclaimation:stay out of da bubblz, stay out of da stationmake a dawgs reaper ship immunestop gettin a dawgs reaper outa warp too soondig it"
"no dawg jus reaper type ship dig dont want to shake it all up but dawg recycliers need a way to get out dig"
"could you stop barking and start talking like a human being?"
"hope is a virtue, even when it chances to be misplaced."
"i didn't understand a word of that hip hop."
"you come from a nation with a strong culture and historical significance, of course you dont understand it.now. phil collins, queen, genesis, fatboy slim, massive attack or basement jaxx?"
"is that even supposed to be a choice? queen. seriously, basement jaxx? really?"
"trying to cover a few tastes."
"i'm missing a t2 rokh kind of ship. in last month i've decided to do some missions. i've found out i would like to have a marauder because of salvagers/salvage thieves. as a trained rokh pilot my options are :kronos - because of hybrid weapons, but have to train armour tanking (don't like that) and galente bsvargur - because of shield tank, have to train projectile weapons and minmatar bsgolem - have shield tank and bs skills, but i've found out i hate missileswhat i like to see is t2 rokh, pretty same like it is, but with marauder bonusses (100% dmg to hybrids, 100% to tractor beam range)i've never tried other factions battleships in combat, but i think other factions pilots would like to have t2 abaddon, hyperion, maelstrom or whatever ships are \"missing\"thanks for reading"
"who says a t2 rokh would be a marauder?and you want to give the golem a chance. with decent missile skills it just obliterates the rats. even with cruise missiles."
"4 marauders is plenty. new t2 bs should be new classes, not old ones.edit: on second thought, that should say \"5 marauders is plenty\". can't forget the nightmare."
"[kronos, shield]damage control iitrue sansha power diagnostic systemtrue sansha power diagnostic systemtrue sansha power diagnostic systemshadow serpentis magnetic field stabilizershadow serpentis magnetic field stabilizershadow serpentis magnetic field stabilizergist c-type x-large shield boostercaldari navy invulnerability fieldcaldari navy invulnerability fieldcaldari navy shield boost amplifier425mm railgun ii, caldari navy antimatter charge l[empty high slot]425mm railgun ii, caldari navy antimatter charge l[empty high slot]425mm railgun ii, caldari navy antimatter charge l[empty high slot]425mm railgun ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lcapacitor control circuit iicapacitor control circuit ii740 dps omni tank without crystals...should be ample for missions. thank me later bro."
"now we know what larkonis needs the money from the tournament spot for. :dnice fit."
"actually dawg i'd use a golem personally."
"nobody says it. i'm saying i'm missing decent shield tank/hybrid marauder. rokh is a dead end for me. and .. i've tried raven because everyone use ravens and everyone recommend ravens. definetly a no go for me. and i don't think i'm going to love golem much morewell, thank for the idea. i was thinking about something like that. it look like a bad joke for me, but ok, somebody extremly (in my eyes) rich can have decent shield/hybrid marauder. i'm missing target painter and/or ab. i'm guessing you would not be able to stretch this ship more to find a place for this ..."
"qq?where is the drone marauder for gallente? where is the armour tanking missile marauder for minmatar? where is the... nope, nevermind, amarr only do lazors.fact of the matter is the marauders are there for each race's primary niche. if that doesn't happen to fit in with your playstyle then... well... tough.if tech 2 tier 3 bs are released i do hope they are something more exciting than another bunch of marauders."
"goodie:)"
"tbh tier3 tech1 bs need to be redone (at least the hyperion) & tier3 bs already punch out the same amount of dps roughly of marauders just no easy carebear mode =p"
"that might be the case, but the beauty of small issues is that it doesn't take a whole lot of work to fix them. we can probably get both without too much effort."
"i thought i was the only one who knew this trickery!"
"i don't know how they can put energy into a campaign to be elected but then can't do the work the position they asked for entails.oh.... that must be how it works :-)"
"i asked erik to do it since meissa is mia again..."
"go troll somewhere else dawg."
"at a guess?no chance :-p"
"it might be interesting to have my avatar be something other than a bit of useless decoration that sits in the corner of my screen that other player have the option of looking at.having this feature would make the game a little more \"realistic\". because for all intents and purposes my character is my ship at the moment."
"/signed"
"old cynos!"
"/signed !"
"sign"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"/signed"
"gief"
"supportedmy enyo waits for its 5% rof bonus"
"bump, zig. for great justice!"
"shouldn't there be a fourth page on this topic soon?"
"i like this idea. even if it is changed to the twice in 48 hours, if you have to jump somewhere real fast, you can jump back right away and not waste 24 hours doing almost nothing in your other clone. the 48 hour times is there so you can't do this constantly.either way works"
"i support this."
"no support. jump clones shouldn't be logistic clones."
"in your original post you provided nothing but a generic no. its much more valuable to the discussion at hand when you actually type out a reason behind your vote.think about it, if people are holding a vote and its split 50/50 but everyone who supports it gives a reason and everyone who doesn't just says no, which votes do you think are going to carry more weight?"
"maybe if you spent more time researching why the majority say no and less time lecturing me you wouldn't come across as a total fool.this proposal has been brought up hundreds if not thousands of times and it has been shot down each time.i'm not going to repeat myself just for the pleasure of your foolish attempt at reasoning.and that goes for everyone here who seems keen on getting there oh so very easy insta-travel around new eden."
"not supported."
"i like both ideas.you got my support."
"no go.space is supposed to be big."
"drake, first off, learn to count, this is being supported almost 2 to 1. seondly, your trying to get ****ed at me because i asked people to back up there side of the arguement with a little reasoning. because thats so much to ask, that people explain there point of view rather then just paroting it."
"would like to see the timer reduced, and then maybe even more clones per character."
"this makes hauling with an alt on same account sooooooooo much easier. right now it's too hard."
"would like"
"supporting this topic since 2007"
"supported - i love the idea. prehaps post up concept art for the other races?"
"i agree that the locking and unlocking system needs reworked, but this system has some issues. i would rather just have bulk votes.reasons i do not like this idea:1) shareholders own the assets, technically the blueprints belong to them.2) no time delay in unlocking bpos in your idea. if a thief works his way up high enough or someone just gets tempted, he just has to pick a good time to do it.3) no log of actions, wouldn't be able to tell who is unlocking said bpos."
"supporting, but sadly ccp probably won't do anything with this."
"supporting this why not"
"they will if we get enough support here and when they finaly open their eye's"
"/signed. 0.0 needs to be more inviting."
"well written post. the aftermath. supports the rebalance."
"i support this change as well. ratting can get really tedious due to the reasons covered in the original post"
"i left 0.0 because of how poor the return over time invested is when compared to high sec. mission running. not to mention security. supported. would love to come back to 0.0 if the money were there."
"stealing this from another topic. cloaker fuel!scale the amount per unit of time to fit the different level of cloakers and give ships that use cloaks to get their primary mission bonuses per level to fuel usages.pro'smacros with cloaks to run and hide in 0.0 ratting will die cause they run out of gas eventually and become visible.no 24/7 having wardeced corps hiding in a dead end constellation with someone in a cov ops or even just a frigate sitting within range of a gate giving 23/7 intel. would make wars more fun.con's possible market inflatation due to less macro miners in 0.0 or lowsec.loss of subs of people who like to just buy their iskies and dont want to bother working for their iskies."
"forgot to press the thumb button"
"cloaks are fine. deal with it."
"a cloaked ship doesn't do anything. deal with it."
"i would support this idea if local channel was also removedno more 23/7 intel"
"cloaked ships make it so people can not find them to remove the macros, and as to the local they cant check it round the clock if you can find them and kill them when they try instead of them being permainvisible."
"support"
"cloaks are limited enough without making it worse. this has been raised millions of times, and the vast majority are against modifying cloaks and their mechanics.no, cloaks are fine."
"this.intel from local is the underlying problem here."
"not supported.just because you wardecced them doesnt mean they cant be smart and avoid being killed."
"this and this and no support."
"afk cloakers have close to zero risk of loosing their ship. everyone undocking their ship should potentially put their ship at risk. especially when away from keyboard.1 single cloaker can hide in a deep safe, and no matter how many people and ships you throw at it, you can do nothing to find him and kill him.if this proposal can put a stop to this. ill support it.!"
"/ditto"
"tissue?"
"so because you can not deal with a person who poses no immediate or direct threat to you, you want to nerf it?cloaks are fine as is."
"to a miner sitting in a hulk, a sb is a potential threat.then people say, you just need combat support in belt. only problem is the people saying this, is the same people who wont do combat support for their alliance mates, sitting hours in belts watching out for an afk cloacker that might do a bomb run.also with combat support, there still is a good chance to kill a hulk with a sb and then the isk damage vs. cost of sb is met."
"what's your point?"
"qft."
"that is only partially correct. cloaking ships provide great benefits when involved in a bit of teamwork.i'd hate having to take fuel along tbh, especially in w-space, but since ccp stated they can now add fuel bays to any ship class who knows what they come up with"
"great...yet an another cloaking whine thread.not supported for the billionth friggen time."
"correct me if i'm wrong, but an afk cloaker can't possibly collect intel, mainly because they're afk."
"he also can't kill you..."
"\"afk cloaker\" is the commonly described syndrome, not the mechanism . the beef most people have with the whole thing is that there is first of all no way to distinguish an afk cloaker from an active cloaker (which makes sense, doh), secondly that there is no way they can do anything about them (scanning, probing) and thirdly that there is no risk element involved in cloaking activities when used to hamper operations in someone's territories. only when cloaking activity is used as a prelude to engagements (ganks ftw, also: beef black ops more ktnx), but that's not this \"afk / cloaker\" syndrome really. it may **** people off such tactics, but this is something which does involve taking risk to achieve reward .. it involves stuff going boom.when i'm screwing around in someone's backyard, the poor sods have no way to do anything against my activity or lack of activity. i like this, they hate it. most of the time i really am afk, but plenty of times i'm not and i track names & ships, peak times and lowtimes, work through screenshots of towers, andsoforth.sucks for them, tbh. but i have to admit that there is zero risk or effort involved for me. which does kinda go against the spirit of eve. again, i'd hate to have to use fuel to cloak, but i could understand such a change. it would require me to do my afk harassing as well as scouting or target mapping with teamwork involved, instead of a solo zero risk activity on the side in w-space i have to say that cloaks using fuel would really make stuff prone to running into issues. unless you have a pos and actually live in a hole, but for some playstyles where you move around from pocket to pocket and surface only rarely it would require some adaptations. the lazy part in me would hate it.as i said, i'm not supporting it but i can understand it if changes were made to subtly guide people away from the syndrome to more consistent use."
"he's not the one with that job that's for others most of the time, remember the job of the \"afk cloaker\" is to make people paranoid, fearful of ganks, suspicious of moving ships, etcetera. wonderful job tbh, especially when they start to whine in local, but it is zero risk."
"supporting, it's too easy to just cloak in a system and be able to give intel with no risk at all."
"if he's giving intel then he's not afk."
"reading these threads... i've a good mind to stick alts in eccm'd up inties in safespots in major 0.0 systems and troll your probers with unprobable ships... because if you nerf cloaking that's what people will move to.0.0 carebears... biggest carebears."
"that's the point, you don't know and there's absolutely nothing you can do about it.at least this proposal includes risks, you can stay in a system all day but you'll need to coordinate logistics for the fuel, which means there's more points in which for a group to stop you being a afk cloaker.at the moment it's just completely riskless for a lot of gain.edit;you can do that if you want, but you'll never become unprobable in a ceptor, and you won't stop anyone ratting.but yeah, those cloakers definitely aren't the carebears in this scenario, because they're definitely risking alot while cloaked. really."
"not supported."
"supported, there should be a cost/risk involved for extended use of regular cloaking devices, however, covert ops cloaks should not have use fuel. to use covert ops cloaks you need a much larger array of skills and even then, only specific ships can fit them. this is enough of a drawback to warrant free use."
"remove local u dont know if he is in the system so u can relax by not knowing if a cloaker is or is not in system since u seem to be scared by the fact that you know that he is in system."
"the aftermath. does not support this idea."
"not supported. a cloaked ship poses no direct threat. get some medicine to battle stress if it's making you nervous."
"i'm assuming that all the people who want cloaks to have fuel are 0.0 carebears who dock up as soon as an afk cloaker comes into your system. first, you're in 0.0. it's not safe, don't pretend it is and don't try to make it safe. just because you can't take your hulk out and afk mine all day cause there's a neutral in your system doesn't mean something is broken. it means you're not trying hard enough to keep them out.not supported"
"not sure if i agree with this, but the claim that cloakers do nothing is just wrong.aside from the intel they provide, if nothing else they are an excellent souce of warp ins."
"it is less corruption than it appears to be incompetence and lack of consistency. atleast to my eyes."
"i have had very mixed perfomance with the gm/petition system. sometimes wits been quick and helpful, other times its been 3-4 weeks response time. and usually to say 'nothing in the logs' and 'petition closed'."
"thumbs up from me"
"good idea, i'm surprised no-one suggested it before. supported."
"/signed and supported. keeping track on stuff like this will definitely improve the way corps supply their members, and also track misuse."
"oh so if you remove insurance people will bring less and smaller ships to fights?wrong! people will just bring even more ships and will not engage unless their side has at least a clearly large margin of vistory. and as you can see, that means no engagement cause one side is always going to be outnumbered.first of all, i have never made isk off of insurance, which fully proves it isn't an isk faucet. however i understand that you must fly your ships without any fittings or cargo to make such isk off your insurance. if you fit any modules, especially t2, you lose enough isk easily. my t2 fitted t1 hull cruisers cost me at least 10 million after getting blown up cause of the guns and plates and drones and such. in no way am i gaining isk.if you're looking for a world where ship losses mean significant losses, you forgot to look at t2 ships. the insurance covers maybe a third of the price. actually i have no idea since i own few t2 ships and haven't insured any of them.not supported.if you think getting rid of isk will make pvp more fun, think again. people will either fly crap ships which don't do anything, or they will bring tons of ships and blob up. not something that needs to be done"
"1/1000 per shot, compared to crystals lasting for 1000 shots. the average lifespan is identical."
"hmm.. looks like it got over looked by the csm.. yet again..."
"a worthy cause, that i fully support."
"once (from what i've heard), artillery was useful for its massive alpha strike. then, after ccp tripled the base hp of everything, that alpha became less useful. perhaps one thing that could be done to help artillery would be to give artillery a third of its current rof and triple its current damage modifier. this could help with the terrible clip size of artillery too. various other tweaks could help, such as improving its tracking.autocannons desperately need a boost too, but i can't say i know exactly what that should be. also, change the rof bonus on minmatar ships that only have one projectile bonus to a damage bonus. artillery would appreciate it."
"great idea, supported as long as ccp increases ratting/missioning/mining profits in lower sec systems to make up for the increased risk."
"personally i would prefer that local intel was achieved 2 methods.1.) exposed alliance scanners linked to pos broadcasting to all members in system through the scanner interface. allow their use with 0 sov with possible additional benefits with high sov.2.) core probes with limited ranges which a pilot could send where ever they wished and would report real time ship types and standings/sec states detected through the scanner interface."
"good idea, pretty sure the forges constallation channel would fall over tho."
"yhiui"
"as a temporary fix, i would support this"
"i dont know about this. looks like it favors pvp and pirate corps over noobi and carebear corps.wont be able to scan local if there are hostiles around.i would say just show all players in both local and constellation."
"wierd proposal. a solution is not a solution if all it does is move matters to a different bottleneck, that's just staving off matters.besides that, you're not touching on any other elements involved with local, other then \"omg ratters\". that's not just a rather limited view, it's a rather unbalanced view. for an ah proposal it really should provide much more structure and angles."
"the above says nothing.the proposal doesn't replace one problem with another, it doesn't move it to a different bottleneck. it fundamentally changes the absolute accuracy with which players can tell which players are located within which systems.i touch on many different aspects of how local affects the game and how the changes will improve the game. the proposal is very structured, but the post isn't long and detailed because the concept is simple, straight forward and elegant."
"i had similar idea - have anchorable devices (like medium warp bubble) that you could anchor near gates and it would add act as a secondary overview, as if you were there.there would be some important limitations:1) limit maximum deployed number to 52) cost of the unit no less than 5 mil3) destructible - similar to medium warp bubblethat would strike a better balance"
"so basically giving someone five scout alts? seriously?"
"the absolute worst thing possible would be to allow alliances intel tools while denying that same functionality to everyone else."
"so instead of just every hub being spammed by isk sellers, every constellation will too."
"at a price and destructible - that is serious.if 5 mil is too cheap, raise it to 10 mil, maybe even 20 mil. anyone passing thru the gate could destroy it. it's a fair trade off. not to mention the hassle it would be to hail those modules in cargo an anchor them."
"ah, so if you have to personally anchor them then pirates would get screwed because they wouldn't be able to anchor a sensor in high sec but non-pirates could anchor sensors in lowsec as well as high, right? or would it even be allowed in low/highsec?"
"you obviously failed to read the 2nd part of my post then."
"support"
"detailed remote intel gathering is exactly what keeps fights from happening in the first place. lately i've been considering the idea of removing what type of ship it is (hyperion, maelstrom) and just having the scanner display what class of ship (battleship, cruiser) so that players will have a general idea of what's out there but would need to get eyes on the targets to make sure."
"such a device should not be anchorable in high sec - because one of its key points in destructibility, and high sec prevents that.i don't see a problem with low sec tho.if pirates camp a certain system, they can keep it clean of any such devices.basically, such a device would be a good compromise solution to removing local as intel tool. you gotta admit that no local does favor attackers a little more than defender. this module would restore some sense of security, but at a price - so defender would actually need to put some effort into intel gathering."
"bump."
"i wish the contracts interface was revamped to where you could look up things like on market and sort them by \"standard\", \"faction\", \"deadspace\", \"officer\" in order to scale down what you are looking for."
"since every man and his dog decided that contract scams are a good idea, i've dreaded every single time i have to search contracts. not that i've ever been scammed, but recently there's more scam attempts then legit contracts, which makes searching a pain.i think the contracts system needs some work (chose sell or buy orders only on search for a start), but that being said, i've never quite understood the point of having certain items which can not be sold on the market. just because you can sell something on the market, does not mean that it can't be sold on contracts.look at marauders for instance, they're available in both places, and people buy/sell them in both places. there's loads of stuff that's sold in both places, i can't be assed to make a list, but if you look for them, you'll see that this idea won't change much.either way, i support this idea!"
"the quantum rising expansion, the orca's initial production lead to so many market changes. they can be still felt even to this day. i like to introduce anyone who is reading to a simple small change to the orca to better reflect it's role as a mini-freighter/bridge to freighter.why did ccp decide to not make it possible to fit a battleship 500,000 m3 inside an orca's ship maintenance bay of 400,000m3? one possible solution is to enlarge the ship maintenance bay up to 600,000 m3 for 6 skiffs or 3x hulks or 4x mackinaws. or maybe allow at least one battleship minimum or more cruisers and frigates.right now you can&t haul a rigged battleship in freighter via courier contract or even in highsec unless you plan to allow carrier/mothership into highsec which is even more unlikely due to combat potential. i am sure they had a reason to limit courier contracts, but that limitation as far i understand doesn't extend to orcas. i would like more information as this is not a thread for speculation.i would be happy to make a compromise with ccp, but this proposal isn't about what the the terms of compromise may be, but rather what changes i think should happen. a compromise may be necessary as i don't know to what extent how ccp plans to make changes. speaking of changes please do not mention that \"the orca will never be a carrier\" because carriers have so much more especially as it can protect itself to a degree and has jump drive capability, whereas the orca has nothing that equals the potential of a carrier.this will make the orca an even more juicy target for gankers and as far i can see, have no positive side effect other than make it less painful to haul many battleships with rigs. i know people who have more than that in highsec.one of the fewest reasons i haven't fully trained battleship hull *only cruiser and smaller hulls* is that i love to collect and have one of each etc., which would make it painful to haul so many battleships to just move. i also don't like to be tied down to one place at all. even having two or three sets of battleships wouldn't appeal to me as a solution. (for clarity, i've only trained fully for one battleship, edit: now training for at least 4 more battleships)example:orca picks up a rokh which is 486,000 m3 unpackaged. then it can fill up the remaining 114,000 m3 with a destroyer or whatever that fit.another benefit side effect would be a rise to a courier services for rigged battleships in highsec. i mean who don't love some slaves to pull around your stuff? *kidding* you still have to pay of course.orcas can still function as a mini-freighter even without this small change, yet it could have a bigger role eve online if the change went live."
"you are a tad little late to the party it seem so. i am merely only offer a method to keep programming overhead low unless they have other plans. i have no idea if their plan will be helpful or not.edit source link:"
"oh boy, more poss for pos warfare. i'm excited."
"not supported.fix the completely broken lowsec before trying to fix the half broken nullsec"
"no, cloaking should remain as it is now."
"for you guys who dont like his scanny idea but like fuel idea.click and thumb heredun wanna kill your thread really yue but it seemed enough of a difference to merit its own thing."
"leave cloaks alone!"
"not supported at all. i also do not support the fuel idea."
"not supported. if you're too paranoid/inept to rat with a single cloaked afk hostile in system, then that's your problem."
"i logged all the way in cause i had to say no to this"
"no support. delay local if you don't want macros."
"covert ops cloaks should not be able to be scanned down. the ships which fit them have their specific roles and the drawback in defense.however, i support a difficult method of probing down the other types of cloak. it should not be easy, but it should be possible. the strategic value of having intel and causing fear in system by just being present and cloaked is quite valuable. however, the drawbacks of the non-covert ops cloaking devices are not severe enough for the additional combat gain you can have by fielding an invisible gang. this is especially enforced on ships which do not need to actually target like hics or interdictors. normal defense would allow for use of choke points, like stations or gates, to spot or tackle non-covert ops ships. this defense is nullified if a player can just stage themselves cloaked in a system.increase the risk of detection to balance out the benefits afforded."
"not fussed about high-skills probing of basic cloakers.however, you should not be able to probe down someone using a covert ops cloak. end of story."
"not supported. power creep isn't needed."
"not supported. this completely destroys the point of being cloaked."
"absolutely not."
"ships using covert ops cloak should be able to remain hidden for as long as they please, since scouting is their intended role. other ships using different cloaks - not sure. other cloaks already have huge battle drawbacks, i don't think they need to be further nerfed."
"lol. no"
"i think one of the main things missing from eve is the feeling of being in control of a ship with actual crew inside them.this could be solved by having crew cabins on each ship (possibly none on small ships like frigates etc), going up to say 3 or 4 on battleships. there would then be an option to hire certain crew chiefs. you would have to pay them each week, and they could possibly decide to leave you if you dont play to their style, so a pirate gunner crew would leave you if you decide to be a carebear etc (or vice versa).there could be several types of crew available, such as gunners, shield or armour experts, engine experts etc. all giving a slight boost to the relevant skills, such as a gunner would improve your guns damage, as he could aim better, a shield expert could give a boost to shield regen etc, and so on.you would then have to decide which types of crew you would like to fill the cabins, so you could maybe not have all areas of expertise covered at once.there could be different levels of competency of the crew available, with say lvl 1 crew only giving a 1% boost of their area of expertise, while a lvl 5 expert could boost their area of expertise up to 5%.the crew could also be selective with who they accepted work with, possibly linked to a pilots sec status. by this i mean a pilot with sec status of 0.0 (i.e. rookie) would only be able to hire a fairly low level crew member, while a sec status of 5.0 could hire a far better crew member, but for a far higher weekly pay. (after all, the experts would want to fly with a decent pilot in rl i'd guess). this principal coud also work for negative sec status as well, but would have to be amended to reflect the possibility of up to -10.0 sec status. so maybe a 1% improvement for every -2 points a pilot's sec status was at.the crew could also give suggestions to you in the local channel (like some of the chat on the missions), with advice on which targets to aim at next etc if you had a gunnery chief on board as an example.the crew members wouldn't actually do the work for you, as in firing the guns, but would help to immerse you into the idea of being a ship captain, with people under your control.i think this could work really well, and add a new area to eve"
"you're not the first to propose this - there was a thread on this topic a couple weeks ago. i'll say the same thing to you i did to him. i'd probably enjoy it, but i'm a freak. it's too complex to be added to eve. no support."
"nice idea - i'd be interested in seeing this worked up. guess it sounds a bit complex at first reading, but essentially it sounds like it'd be like having rigs or implants that depend on your security status and so on, and have a regular cost rather than a one-off purchase cost.what would happen to the crew if your ship got blown up, i wonder? press gangs, real ransoms, free-the-crew rescue missions... good fun"
"unfortunately, i have to agree with hersch. i think it would be amazingly interesting, and i'd love to see it done - if it were done right, and not some cobbled together half-arsed attempt.the problem is that once added, pretty much everyone would have to sign on for it, even the people that don't want it, because if they don't their ships will be outperformed at every turn (5% can make a huge difference in most things).my biggest concern is that eve has enough of a learning curve without having to figure out ship crews as well."
"you need a npc to tell you what rat to shoot what"
"would love to have these right now"
"agreeing with this.but it's always funny to see people camped into station all day that think they're winning because of their k:d ratio."
"it takes a major database rewrite to change an image from one picture to another? if(ifbpc == 1){ setimage a.gif; }else{ setimage b.gif;}where image a is the bpc picture and image b is the bpo pictureand at henry potter. i have two alts making 20 copies 9 times. that works out to 360 copies with 10 bpos. i know how you feel. and before someone says \"well dont turn in all the jobs at once.\" i don't. but my ceo does sometimes since they install as corp jobs."
"this should be solved easy, and without rewriting the whole db.there should be atleast one smart guy at ccp to make a workaround this and make it work proper."
"this. after all, what are we paying these guys for?"
"this was an issue at the first csmits a technical infeasibility at this point and would likely require a ground up rewrite of the entire game.the way the tables are made in the db it matters not if its a bpo or bpc, they all call the same information. so to make another two instances of those would more or less double or triple the current overhead.i don't feel like paying 30 a month just so they can install a secondary server farm just to differentiate between originals and copies"
"yes please"
"that is fine, assuming each item in the game has a reference to an image included. if you consider the possibility that bpcs and bpos are the same general item type (blueprints), and that maybe the image is tied to the type rather than the individual item, it becomes a lot harder to solve. please feel free to apply for a job at ccp with your obviously superior programming skills though."
"your problem is in getting the ifbpc value. ccp has stated that because of optimizations in how the game deals with showing your inventory, the only way to get the ifbpc value at the time when icons are generated is to poll it for every single item in your hangar, blueprint or not. even if you have no blueprints, it'd still have to ask for every single item. that would cause unacceptable lag, so they don't do it. i'm not a crazy programmer, but that's pretty much my understanding of the situation."
"introduce faction/deadspace/officer remote reps."
"introduce faction/deadspace/officer remote reps."
"as your op includes no pressing reason to do so, i'm going to have to say no. change for the sake of change isn't always good.offer some real reasons why they're needed and i may change my mind."
"why? i'm not necessarily opposed, but i'd like to hear an actual argument first."
"and it's got to be a bit more argumentative then \"cause i say so\" or \"cause i want it\" or \"cause my e-peen desires it\" ."
"doesnt need an explanation lol, would just be a cool thing to haveand afaik there is small and medium deadspace ones, just no large i think"
"there's plenty of things you can add that would be \"cool\". that isn't the question though - the question is, would it be good for the game?"
"interesting idea. chelm's large remote rep....supported"
"rr is already strong enough, faction isn't needed."
"this. and there already small/medium faction/deadspace rr mods. just not large."
"yeah, however, they're currently worse then t2 and worthless."
"if anyone gets word of them undocking, they would be mostlikely suicide ganked."
"whats worth more? superfactions as the op put it or high sec caps. i know you cant really do anything with the cap other then mine and fly around or they bump you to low sec but it would still be awesome"
"well actually, my original concept was 5 of each per year, but i figured such a radical and reckless proposal would have the conservatives jumping on me screaming obscenities and bashing me with sticks. if you do think more than 1 per year would be more effective, feel free to support on those lines. i just needed to get the basic idea out there- we can work on the details later."
"maybe a bpc can be give out if you have completed every cosmos mission for a specific empire and have 10 standing with it?"
"while i'm all for more of them, i'm a bit hesitant to support this because i can't see how to increase their numbers to the point where they don't get suicided the second they undock without making them almost as common as the marauders/faction bses.(just as a thought, maybe some sort of standing requirement?)"
"there's no question this should be fixed as soon as possible.supported."
"and i'm actually okay with this. amarr can keep their advantage in fleet work, i just want the other races to close the gap."
"pretty much what sums up what it should be imho."
"supporting like crazy"
"confirming that this is a welcome and useful feature."
"this would be quite a useful tool."
"good idea."
"actually you can only select \"use active overview settings\" in the scanner.this is a bit boring when i want to have an overview settings but still scan for other things.so my proposal is: add a selection menu in the scanner where you can select the overview settings to use."
"if you mean select from your predefined overview settings, i'd be ok with that. just put a drop down on the scanner.supported."
"could be handy. minor issue though."
"yes, that is what i mean"
"supported.scanner should get a major overhaul still though. and not just for those horrible meshes and colors. might even make sense to integrate all but the system view elements directly with the overview over time."
":| because we all know how awesome smartbombs are in empire, do you really think bombs will be much more useful?"
"you can't smartbomb the undock or gate, but you can bomb it -> bombs are more useful then smarites. i'd love to see them allowed in lowsec, in highsec it would be problematic because of concord."
"/me sets up bombing run on jita 4-4 :d"
"supported"
"support"
"yeah, really feels like the wrong place for this. nevertheless...i'm sure everyone who does stuff in 0.0 appreciates jump bridges and portals. be it using the jb to the low sec system, to get to empire and get some isk there. be it three 100-man fleets rallying.i've been flying in both situations facing jump bridges, using them in my own territory and have them used by hostiles in their territory.liking it in the beginning, it has gotten very annoying. an alliance holding some constellations can pretty much instantly reinforce any engaged gatecamp/outmaneuver a running fleet, which really ruins pvp (and that usually means 10v5 becomes 25v5). it's adding a good tactic to an fc's potential, leading to a huge disadvantage for the engaging people though. there's no way a casual roaming gang knows that there is a fleet 7 jumps out waiting for them. having to know where the hostiles' jump bridges are, having to have 3 or more scouts out is not what i call pvp. this is something for warfare, not roaming.and a thing that i've read quite a couple times in the last few days is, jump bridges/portals allow any alliance to move too quickly between regions, which might not be possible at all without these. it's no problem to rally up a fleet at some titan in an alliance's/coalition's homesystem, but it's a nightmare to have people go in their sniping battleships for 30 jumps. and this is what it should be like. a 2000 man alliance that barely musters 80 people into a fleet shouldn't be able to defend two fronts at the same time. i'm not into that jump portal stuff too much, but i think it's not that wrong if i say a bridged fleet needs around 30 minutes to move (including rallying all the people somewhere), but a fleet that does 30 jumps, needs about an hour or longer to move. same applies to jump bridges.i generally don't like the idea of people having an advantage to jump more systems at once than someone else. i just don't see a reason."
"i fully support this idea."
"it is good idea."
"you want this to increase profits? yes?okay, so lets say it costs you, with invention, 15,000 isk to make \"module x\", which you then sell for 20,000 isk.t2 bpo makes the same item for 8,000 isk, which then sells for 20,000 isk.take note, it also costs other inventors that same amount of isk to make \"module x\", and that is their baseline for determining their sell price.your profit: 5,000 iskt2 bpo profit: 12,000 iskccp boosts bpc's to 0/0module x now costs you 13,000 isk to make, you sell for 20,000 iskt2 competitor inventor #1 comes in and undercuts you to 19,000 iskt2 competitor inventor #2 comes in and undercuts both of you to 18,000 iskmarket stablizes at 5,000 isk profit per unit.net result: you make just as much isk as before, and it costs less for people to enter your market. buyers win, everyone else loses.remember, the profit margins with invention when t2 first came out were awesomesauce. for a while you were able to make more isk than god, however, as more inventors got into the market they started undercutting each other and brought down the profit margins.with that said, if ccp made t2 invention bpc's with zero material costs so that they were free, and only required a slot to produce, pretty soon you would see people paying other players to take their produced wares off their hands. wts \"module x\" -(10,000) isk!!!heres a quick example:i produce t2 items, r64 moon situation drastically increases my costs, but they increase the costs for everybody else too. if r64 moons were more plentiful, it would reduce my production costs significantly.and everybody elses too, so the profitability would stay the same pretty much."
"in some phases dev's have hinted that they want to make source bpc me/pe level to \"modulate\" output. they did not do it at first iteration to see how invention works out. i think it would make sense to implement it."
"just like if you want a pos at a moon you have to work for it.supported."
"does anyone know what the actual issue is here?like why are these ppl so affronted by seeing a pos offline?i really see zero issue, they're not stopping you from doing anything, they're not chewing up any resources.....if it's on a moon with minerals you want, you blow it up.... if it's empire and offline pos make you mad... you wardec it....if it's a closed corp you petition it. what is the problem?why do people even care? just seems like it's an emotional response to a non-issue."
"1) eve is not exclusively made in the usa. ccp is from that (still) independant country called iceland. 2) buying and selling existed before the usa became the usa. 3) here we have a shuttle.it needs to be built from minerals.it has a very limited cargo-hold.it cannot fit any modules.yet it may save a clone every now and then.on the other side we have the rookie-ship.it's free, you get as many as you want.it has module slots and a drone bay.it has a larger cargo-hold then the shuttle.and now you want to add \"safe passage\" on top of that ?4) i just wanted to say that i love the usa. particularly florida, home of good music with crude lyrics. |..|_ _|..|"
"personnally im getting a bit sick of the key logger threads that are spamming up the forums.i would like to see a restriction for all trial accounts where that are allowed to view all the threads but are only allowed to post in a \"new player\" section (the assumption being that a new player on a trial account will be more interested in getting tips and answers to questions).may be a bit draconian but i cant think of a more practical way of limiting bull**** posts to only goon members in caod. (sorry showing my ex gbc)thoughts?"
"supporting myself ... as usually"
"trial accounts can only post in the new players section anyway, it's been that way for more than 2 years.the keyloggers are burning real accounts, most likely the people they keylog."
"the message was inflammatory, but battlesmith does have a point. as the csm you do posses certain obligation's. which you are expected to fulfill during your tenure."
"secretary and vice-secretary:record minutes of all csm meetings record all csm votes and results publish an agenda for each csm meeting publish meeting minutes within three days of the meeting** publishing technical means will be provided by ccp.source: what is the csm.at the risk of people thinking i'm trying to slag people off or something like that, i am noticing a pattern with the meeting minutes. it's as if they are unimportant, and without bearing on the continuation of the csm.when real life hits, other people take over. on their own initiative. when the secretary is unable to perform his duties, the vice secretary does not have to get told what to do and when, or anything at all. he or she should step up to the plate, since the deadlines are known.so, what is the current situation on the meeting minutes, the status of the secretarial jobs and is anything being done to get things back on the road?"
"i think we were spoiled by how well omber zombie handled task last term. mazzilliu got off to a decent start, but this is the second time the minutes have been very late. if nothing else it would be helpful to have some clarity about when the vice-secretary steps in."
"the vice secretary should step in on his own accord when the deadline approaches within a reasonable timeframe imo. it is not hard to see \"right, two days, i better check in and if i don't get a response i'll take care of it according to my job description so we stay within the terms of the csm\".edit: mazz is neither secretary nor vice btw for an overview have a look here.there's still some things missing from the previous csm as well, but i can't recall the exact circumstances of that anymore i'm afraid. it's just that this csm there appears to be a trend developing. real life always goes over eve, speaks for itself, but csm has a structure to compensate for that without having to ring people's bells.frankly, a third deadline missed will just reinforce the impression that this csm round is not very interested in the functioning of the csm concept, in line with its inability to tackle the challenge of the minor issues to alleviate workload and streamline processes, and in line with common expectations that for a big part it's just interested in information subject to the nda. i don't subscribe to this last opinion i must say, but i can understand why this keeps popping up, but at the same time it would not surprise me either. this is still eve so please, tackle the challenges folks. it's not that hard to work the structure and take initiatives as per job descriptions."
"i have to agree with ipod.though you should post with your main. makes it far more creditable."
"probably inconceiveable, but i am my main ."
"instead of whining, search the forum.csm<U+FFFD> meeting minutesthe only one missing is csm 3 meeting n. 4, awaiting for some extra material.the n. 6 (august 2) will wait for ccp approval before being published, as normal for all the csm minute meetings as during the discussion they could speak of some information that is not meant to be divulged for now."
"it would have been quite nice to see some sort of information on awaiting verdict on meeting number 4, perhaps you found this out via other means then the wiki or the thread you linked? i'm a bit curious where you found the details on meeting number 4, perhaps you can provide a link, this would be greatly appreciated. the same obviously applies to number 6, after all a simple post stating to be waiting for ccp would have generated a lot of \"doh\".meeting notes on number 5 were late, granted a few days and this can happen but trends are set quite easily, especially in the light of missing or overlooking an informatory post on the status of meeting number 4. meeting notes on number 6 are still missing, more then a week after the meeting. not surprising people ask questions, in the light of absence of these details you mention .. judging by the tone you chose to use, i am guessing you were somehow offended. you can spend that energy elsewhere, i'm not trying to offend anyone. it just gets a bit worrysome when information is lagging behind the schedule. when things run late, then keep running late, it is no surprise to see people ask what, if anything, is happening"
"if the goal is to be sci-fi and that spaciships were just the first step, then this walking in stations thing is really making me curious. cause in that case, it sounds like it would be way more than just an enhanced social platform. i mean, will the be in-station missions and pvp? or what do they plan to do with it?"
"what annoys me is that it seems sovereignty changes have taken priority over wis and i have no idea why ccp even bother changing that system.the sad truth is, no matter what ccp implements in regard to sovereignty you will always see tonnes of whining about it. it will not take a whole day before the first \"serious\" post about how the previous system was better will pop up."
"i've always considered the \"internet spaceships\" to be the meat & potatoes of eve. in every other mmo, i expect to have a virtual representation of my character. but i play eve for other reasons. i go into the eve world knowing that i am piloting a ship. i'm not piloting a person.i'm not absolutely opposed to wis, but i'm not exactly gung-ho about it either. i just hope it isn't a required mode of play, as i think that would detract from the aforementioned meat & potatoes."
"i second the tthread starter"
"i wonder how long we'll have to keep bumping this for until someone gets the goddamn point?"
"please, when people are using pulses and beams on a ship that has +25% bonus damage to rockets with skills, that should be a clear indication that they are b r o k e n !!!"
"/signed"
"33 posts and 19 supports.seems like your math is off.as i said before... less time lecturing.. more time reading."
"it would seem that way until you realise that some people posted multiple times. if you don't support a proposal but 150 people do, and you alone make 151 posts in that topic saying you don't support, does that mean it's not supported?"
"supported you can only have a max of 5 jump clone and the skills not going to erase the timer ether its just going to lower it 24 hours time wait to something maybe at level 5 to 12 hours you can balence it by making it a a high rank skill."
"i did count, there were multiple posts by some people, also it was supported 16 to 9 ish (might of been 15 to 8) when i posted thats why i said almost 2 to 1. now you done being jackass or shall i pwn you some more?"
"supported, but no lower than 12-16 hours.something that at least forces you to wait a day, since people still have to sleep (at least some of you dont anyway) but doesn't prevent you from say making a strategic jump the night before and then being forced to make the long haul if you happen to log in the afternoon for some reason or another."
"i would love to see it lowered to about 18 hours for the exact reason listed in the op."
"i support the idea to reduce the cooldown, not the 2 jumps within 48hrs. the cleaning staff must take their time to wash the cloning machine... op idea supported"
"i support raising the time from 24 to 48 hours for a single jump and having the jump clone skill reduce it by 10% per level"
"this is a bad idea.the op's hypothetical situation is exactly what should happen. an alliance should not be able to ramble across the galaxy with no consequences. unfortunately, with the advent of jumpclones and jumpbridges, this is exactly what happens. the current situation is such that an alliance can assault a distant region with little consequences. for example:alliance a's home region is period basis. one day they decide to assault alliance b in tribute. upstart alliance c sees that alliance a has left their region undefended and make a grab for it. alliance a simply jumpclones everyone back to period basis and fights off alliance c. alliance b barely gets breathing space before alliance a has clonejumped back up. alliance a barely needed to consider the consequences of galloping across the map. jumpclones allow giant empires, map spanning coalitions and the ability to attack distant regions at a whim. if anything, the timer needs to be lengthened or jumpclones need to be eliminated entirely. shortening the timer will just exacerbate the current issues."
"currently, if alliance c attacks alliance a might be able to jumpclone back, and if they do, they cannot start attacking alliance b again for 24 hours.if this timer was shortened to say 12 hours, hell, if alliance b can't put a attack together in 12 hours they fail, because even without a jumpclone in that amount of time alliance a could of traveled back normally anyways."
"24 hours is a pitifully short amount of time. if alliance a is on the ball with stronting they aren't even going to lose a tower before they can show up to defend. if an alliance actually had to manually travel it would be much more of a pita. if they were trying to come home in the ships they took out there they'd have to deal with other hostile alliances, roaming gangs, and opportunistic people like pl or cry havoc coming for them. if whoever was attacking them was on the ball they might have to deal with empire mercs to get back. even if you stick everyone in ceptors you still have to make around 50 jumps instead of clicking a button that allows you to bypass all potential threats. more risk means less map spanning adventures, means less map spanning coalitions, means less huge empires, means more chance for somebody new to break onto the scene. shortening the jumpclone timer just makes space even smaller and exacerbates all of the above issues."
"everyone has the same advantage. whats the problem?"
"jump clone use should come with the risk of skill loss, like losing a pod with your clone not updated."
"supported, hoping for a fix."
"supported."
"always wanted this"
"support"
"for those of you using the afk cloak idea. thats not relevant to what i meant this thread to be about. cause you are right. an afk one does nothing. but you get one person who has 3 paid accounts or whatever, all he has to do is **** around with his other two while his third one sits there watching stuff for his corp to always know what you and your friends are in when you are trying to get to him. this would fix 0.0 macro ratters since as far as i can tell a macro raven cant fit a cov ops cloak. this should make you 0.0 guys happy that people aren't stealing your iskies a cloaked frigate makes a sweet warpin point like someone else mentioned. would it have been better to say not to nerf cov ops cloaks. but then we would have all these people complaining about how why bother. people will just train for it and scout in a br. i guess thats the case, but it still requires them to but the better part of what? 80 million on the line instead of a million isk cloak with a million isk frigate or crusier"
"nerf stations! it should cost fuel every hour to stay docked. i mean - a docked ship is totally safe, and that's not right!someone could have 3 accounts and one of them just sits there in a station watching local and giving 100% safe intell 23x7!"
"dude... you rock... no seriously... your the best.tldr: i lol'd"
"this. (local is fine too)"
"not supported"
"so true. not supported."
"you can camp stations. you cant report intel on what ships people are in and where they are when you're in a station. you cant uncloak, tackle someone and then have a gang jump in while you're in station."
"yes... their is something you can do about it. you can stage out of a system that isn't being scouted. you can use a bit misdirection, trickery etc into making the enemy think you have a smaller force than you actually have, etc etc.[stiletto, probe this homedawg]overdrive injector system iinanofiber internal structure iinanofiber internal structure iicatalyzed cold-gas i arcjet thrusterswarp disruptor iiconjunctive ladar eccm scanning array iconjunctive ladar eccm scanning array i200mm autocannon ii, barrage s200mm autocannon ii, barrage sstandard missile launcher ii, caldari navy sabretooth light missile[empty rig slot][empty rig slot]gl probing this down without all skills at level 5, faction launcher, faction probes and a pirate implant set. protip: even then you probably won't.it can nip around, wait for a ratter or miner to begin going about his business, get a gang to wait a couple of systems over, swoop in, get point etc etc.if a cloaker in a system is in a ship that you deem to be a threat to your residents then... i dunno... bait him? defend your space? if all he's doing is relaying int then you can do the same dawg, it's a less unsavoury tactic than 'metagaming' via in corp spies and listening in on vent/ts.ps it's a sad day when a system with 30+ people from a supposedly hardcore 0.0 alliance is brought to a standstill by an afk cloaked covert ops in local. as i said, 0.0 carebears, best carebears."
"not supported"
"i think just the fact that over 200 people support this idea pretty much speaks for itself"
"during my university years i have worked for aol's internal collection dept. training and management directives called for us to scam, lie, cheat, lie some more, and cash the customers' credit cards for the entire outstanding balance.even with this knowledge and experience, i believe that ccp's customer service is way worse than aol's.at least we took the time to listen to those poor guys on the other end of the phone.i can say that the best way to go around this is lodging some complaints with the better business bureau, or even starting talks with players who feel they have been unlawfully treated by this service provider with the final goal of filing a class action lawsuit against them.most large companies, and especially service providers, do not give a rat's ass about the customers paying for their cars, mortgages, food and what-not. individually, we pay a small amount, but collectively we make up for their entire profit margin.the only inconvenience here is that a lot of people don't have the time or simply think the legal approach to this is not worth it. my advice is never let a company get away with bullying you. your money fills their pockets. maybe it's time for their money to fill yours, as moral damages.seek legal counsel today and sue them for everything they've got!"
"that's all good and fine...and good sense no less...but you got a couple of problems.1: no ones going to sue over a damn video game.2: ccp is based out of iceland... not the usa... while they may conduct business here.. they are internationally based.. somehow turning them into the bbb... is childish at best.the only way your going to get results is 1 of 2 ways.you quit the game taking away there money... or you complain about it until they can't take it anymore or they do something about it.now if this was a different situation such as a service like power or water... or food....something a little more critical... it would be different."
"actually the bbb would redirect you to"
"rights to what? to play a video game in a fictional environment?i'm paying for a service much like a magazine.... its nothing more than thatoh sure i've put a lot of time into it... but i seriously doubt anyone is going to cry over that.again... there's a problem... but suggesting these courses of action is utterly ridiculous.i stand by my reasoning.... you want to get there attention? complain or leave... asking a lawyer to sue them for losing your ship is a bit far fetched don't ya think?ccp let alone the eula did not guarantee certain things such as same day tech support... the whole basis of your said opinion hinges on rights that you \"assume\" to be present to begin with.. hate to break it to you pal.... but you don't have any rights...as far as anyone is concerned.... ccp can do whatever the #### the want when they see fit to do so.they could be ignoring us right now... and it wont change a damn thing.so either you have faith in the csm that will do there job... or you walk away.if you wan't to sue them for a video game.. be my guest... let me know how that works out for yah."
"i, for one, won't be doing anything of the sort. i don't have to deal with petitions as often as some people.but seeing grown men act like women and going nerdy-emo, crying out to the csm, to \"solve\" their problems simply made me offer an idea so maybe people could open their eyes.legally speaking, the service you are paying for, guaranteed by the contract you have with ccp is not provided within the stipulated paramaters to which ccp has obliged itself. it may not be that harsh but still, the least you could do is file a complaint with econsumer.gov to have them listed in their multinational database.i hope other paying customers will eventually heed my call, and do what they should to protect their rights within the appropriate channels.my good drake draconis, the csm is nothing more than an outlet which major alliances, and major players use to influence the development of the game. this is because most of them represent the interests of large entities, making up for the majority of eve's playerbase.it's both in the interest of ccp and the csm to see the game going in the direction they want it to. but unfortunately, the eternally poor customer support is seen as a major money sink by most large companies. this is why this particular branch of a lot of companies is outsourced to external companies. paying less for customer support in countries like india, romania, etc. amounts to more profit reeled in by the company.the game will change at csm's initiative only on such subjects that involve the gameplay, the development of the game as a whole.they will never, and i stress never, allow outside people, much less customers, run their business for them.you look like you require a bit of researching, or better yet, more life experience before taking on issues such as the quality of customer service (which has -always- been somewhere between poor and mediocre).you wanna do something? sue them.you feel like it's not worth it? shut up. because eventually, this is what most of the people will do, and as soon as a better product emerges on the market they'll be migrating in flocks.regards."
"ummm,if these guys worked in my department, they'd all be part of the growing number of people on unemployment.one or two mistakes every now and then is fine, we are not that jesus guy and are expected to make mistakes... but the sheer number of failures by the gm's leads me to only one conclusion... incompetence"
"yeah... i choose to shake my head and worry about more important matters.. like real life.not internet ships."
"and in other news, we have this fine thread:grab a snickers bar because this apparently will take a whilenice response time. i mean, i'm a bit easy to please in the gm department. i played enb after all, and petitions in enb were frequently responded to by gm's saying \"thanks for playing sims online\" for god's sake. but come on. also, there's quite deep suspicion that low level gm's are possibly bots, since they always respond with canned messages and never - and i mean never - really fix anything. sort of like trying to get an answer out of audix when you call a company for customer support, same thing. also while you're at it, have a look at your customer support tools. as you can see here (from the same thread linked to above) anyone can respond to a feedback message, not just the person who sent the petition. the result can be seen by clicking on the message. while vuk i'm sure dig's the gay **** in the responses (it's very 4s) i'm not sure if everyone else wants this sort of stuff on display in eve."
"the irony in this is fantastic. not to mention that for someone who doesn't worry about internet space ships you certainly troll the forums with the best of the best.drake has been on a tear all day. someone must have peed in his cheerios.on another note...supported...because the i just had to file a petition, gave what i consider all the pertinent information before hand because i looked it up prior to filing the petition. then i got a response asking me for the d@mned information i just sent them in the original petition.now i asked to have the petition canceled and its been days and its still open."
"i honestly would love an answer to these questions:why are so many people so adamant about forcing people to loose money all the time?this is after all a game is it not? why do you want to make it all the more difficult to have isk? are you that pathetic in rl that you use this game as a substitute for validation of your abilities? let's keep the game fun as opposed to making it a job. i have one of those to make money in rl, don't need another one thanks."
"this"
"i would really like a response from the csm on this issue as it appears to have been ignored based on procedure that so far has shown that nothing has happened."
"support"
"yes, also make constellation madatory like local is."
"i guess it would be ok, particularly if they were obvious and only worked while on grid. i have to say however that local in delayed mode favors the defenders just as much as the attackers, as nobody is stopping anyone from laying in wait with a huge force either cloaked or stuffed in a deep safe."
"yus"
"i do support delayed local, however i can not support this implementation.instant mode constellation chat only solves the macro ratting bot problem, while creating other, much more game breaking issues.trivializing the scout's job even more is the smallest of those issues. providing early warning to anyone in a constellation screws up a great number of strategies for anything from solo roam to fleet ops. avoiding fights with instant constellation chat will be a breeze.not much of a compromise, i'm afraid."
"1.0"
"supported...kill contract spamming."
"needs a little work, but not a bad idea."
"supported, everything should be on the market.. period.contracts should be the home of private/corporate deals and auctions.. nothing more."
"this and it does nothing to your precious little contracts, feel free to continue to use them"
"currently in eve, corporation offices have one of three roles: headquarter, based at, and other. headquarters only applies to one office and is in the corporation public info. based at is limited to one office per pilot. other ends up being where the the bulk of the roles are assigned.other is too broad and based at is too limited. in 0.0 space, it often takes 2 or more stations to find all the needed services. starbases and capital corporate hangers always fall into other; there is no option other than other.solution:first, introduce two new preset office types to assign hanger access to, starbase and mobile hanger. this will allow corporate managers to assign different hanger access to those who use these corporate hangers.second, allow corporate directors to assign groups of offices to custom office roles. with this, a corporation could set two or three of there offices as logistics. then a director or ceo could then give a selection of members additional hanger rights at logistics hangers. those same hangers could be used in another station for manufacturing purposes at offices assigned as manufacturing or for pvp gear at offices assigned pvp base. the purpose of this proposal is to allow corporations to fine tune hanger access to better fit the corporations needs.pros:allows corporations to use offices divisional hangers in different ways at different stations.makes it harder for corp theifs to make a big grabcons:more work for corporation directors to setup"
"pods should fly free; or every pod should be equipped with a cargo hold to contain lo."
"yup, i would like this. it would add some more rp to this mmorpg. and there is hardly enough of that."
"we have enough micro mgt as it is, no thanks"
"i agree with the ships crew idea, but limit it to incredibly huge ships such as titans. it would make titans more of a corp ship instead of only one person flying it. have a navigation slot, gunner slot engineering and command or a variation. i would think that a max of four would be ideal."
"supported 100% from qi logistics. please make my life easier!"
"at present, the blockade runners' bonuses are as follows:racial industrial skill: 5% extra cargo capacity/level and 5% extra velocity/leveltransport ships skill: 5% active tanking bonus/level and reduced covops cloak cpu needsthe transport ships skill bonuses are not very attractive. with transport ships i, blockade runners have ample cpu to fit a covops cloak, mwd, and a few shield tanking mods; there's little incentive to train the skill any further for fitting reasons. the active tanking bonus is even more useless; if you find yourself in a situation where activating your tank seems like it might be useful, theni) you're doing it wrongii) you're going to die anywayi propose a simple change: swap the transport ships active tanking bonus to either a second 5%/level cargo capacity boost or a 5%/level agility bonus. either of these bonuses would give br pilots a strong incentive to train the skill above i, and enhance the utility of the ship class as a whole.tl;dr: blockade runners' active tanking bonus is rubbish and should be swapped for something useful, c/d?"
"i wholeheartedly endorse this product and/or service."
"not a super-critical issue, but i agree in a vague sort of way."
"supported but weak reasoning as to why.i trained up ts's to iv if not iii for more room when it came to making room for various things.i'm not contesting the weak bonuses.. but i seriously doubt people stop at just transport ships i."
"i never stop at level 1 for anything, since level 2 or 3 generally takes less than a day to acquire (at least for the skills i have trained so far). for a day's worth of time, it's worth the extra 5 or 10% to whatever.that said, ccp's role for the blockade runner seems to be (based on their stats and ability to fit cov ops cloak) a stealthy/nimble cargo ship capable of avoiding a fight while delivering cargo.based on that assumption (and yes i know, i'm trying to read the dev's minds here) i'd say it makes sense to give them an agility bonus, and leave the tank bonuses for the other racial transports (the non-covops cloaked ones).supported"
"i agree that the bonus is crapwhy active tank? you'r just gonna get nueted and your tank is crap then, either that your gonna get dps'ed so fast that it will break the tank before the reps have a chance to do there job.now broadsword style tank bonus is better either %5 or 7.5% to resist across the board would be nice but to shields is what im pionting atso somthing10mn mwd ii, lse ii, lse ii, invul sheild ii would be nicei suspect i will be more like 1mn mwd but i supose it is a transport"
"i support a buff for these things, just not quite sure this is the route to go"
"+1 for agility."
"agreed"
"that would be a great idea"
"supported."
"while it's pretty clear to everyone that tanking bonus on blockade runner is rubbish, the ships are already way overpowered - specifically because of cov ops cloak.how about we take away the cov ops, then we can replace tanking bonus with something useful?as it is now, boosting blockade runners is completely unacceptable, even those in ccp who are responsible for nano nerf would probably agree."
"after playing .01 isk wars with other traders (fine by me) we regional resellers are faced with 50+ deliveries and potentially hundreds of items that need to be individually moved to member hangers and then sold. this proposal is simple - add an interface screen for viewing all items, stacked with quantities, in all remote deliveries for a selected region. this screen should be as clean as viewing your own hanger.options available:- ability to move items in bulk to a selected member/corporate hanger. - remote sell order placement should be as simple as selecting a stack and selling as usual, even if items are located in 20 different stations. of course, all broker fees will remain unchanged and orders will appear separate per location on the market.there are many other interesting options that can be added, however just these two options if implemented would remove 99% of the unfun that us regional resellers experience."
"remote inventory management would be an excellent feature. supported."
"nope.deliveries and remote management are two distinctly different things. if you are not moving the merchandise around properly when you make the delivery that's your fault but nothing stops you from contracting it to the person either.all this would do is allow bot networks to take over entire regional markets with only a few commands rather than the nightmarish task of trying to program in all the current variables. with transport mission running bots already in existence it's not like a completely automated empire is unfathomable and this makes it about a billion times easier to manage. even if a regional bot network already existed this would take a ton of its work load in placing buy and sell orders away and let it focus on .01 isk wars. so now instead of hub isk wars we get them across the entire galaxy. this would also pump a huge amount of lag into the system every time you tried to sell across the entire region because the server would have to calculate the tax and broker fees on each individual location of the goods by your standing with the station owner. load is bad enough without giant spikes every 30 seconds from trying to execute a sell order in 25 systems at once.sorry but eventually it would just degrade into lemonade stand online where you don't even undock you just have everything automated for you. people can have entire alt armies for all i care so long as its people actually running them. the mechanics work just fine with the tools at your disposal it just requires effort and not much of it at that. it's just as monotonous as the other professions and a hell of a lot safer and more profitable.why don't we just ask for an \"i win\" button."
"juribe replies:if trading or remote management features are on ccp's agenda, than why is remote stacking missing from the game?"
"i understand your position but don't support it.i find peoples obsession with kms pretty funny. i myself love to get on a capital killmail here and there, but in the end it doesn't really mean anything when 50 people are on a frigate km. it would be nice to see kms with some sort of percentage to an overall engagement in terms of participation. it would get all the relevant data, nd peple would still get their precious \"kill count\". i'm 99% sure something like this will never happen, but you can blame the neediness of human behavior and \"accomplishment\" recognition. that's life"
"reactivate topic"
"ccp need to be pestered about things. they after all said titans would be added soon after retail."
"problem:currently, the close and minimize buttons are too small and too close to each other. it is very easy to unintentionally close a convo or other channel.solution:through a right click menu on the channel name, where blink on/off ans settings are located, add an option that locks the channel open. when activated, the channel would behave like local, corp, and alliance channels. to close the channel, you would need to unlock the channel going through the same context menu and unlock the channel. maybe even add an option that says unlock and close to accomplish both in one step.pros:no more closing important channels in the middle of a conversationcons:you actually have to go through the ui prior to accidentally closing the channel."
"this idea makes a fair amount of sense."
"this is a pretty simple and very useful idea, i can't tell you how many times i have closed a channel or convo by mistake."
"yes, please."
"sure, why not?"
"yup"
"dun have to tear into my code. im not sure how it works. just saying. it didn't seem like it should be that hard to do. seems like ccp likes to program themselves into holes."
"look, they are using ms-sql. they do use stored procedures to do their lookups.it is not always very simple to change things at this level as it potentially impacts on a lot of the items system. while it may not impact performance if done properly, altering item lookup procedures, if not done exactly right could *******s up the game. to them it is probably viewed as something that ought to be done when they are upgrading the function of that part of the database some time in the future, but too risky to do just to fix a minor issue with bpo's/bpc's.so, my guess is that it is in the 'failed the risk vs benefit test' basket."
"you're not sure how it works, and yet you can do it better than the company who does know with four lines of pseudocode? look, i find this kind of sketchy myself. it seems rather odd that they're querying what the item is, but can't effectively look for any information on it, unless that information is a ship name or similar. but i'm a guy who took a couple coding classes years ago who is looking at this from a distance. ccp are the people who wrote the code, and who have been getting *****ed out for six years to fix this issue. i'll trust their statements over my intuition."
"maybe we will see this option in eve2 since it is a ground up complete recoding of the entire game."
"faction remote sensor boosters please"
"i would like to raise two points about 'what happens if a player changes their mind?'1. if you did allow the skill to turn back into a book if the player changes their mind then that means people can safely transport expensive skill books to 0.0 from empire without risk of loss. they can pickup the book in jita, add it to their queue, clone jumpe back out to 0.0, \"change their mind\", sell it to a mate for a nice safe profit.2. use it or lose it approach. the idea that a player would lose the skill if they changed their mind is not a good one. there are enough little traps in the user interface that can and do affect players already. these little things really do spoil the player experience and ccp should be getting rid of 'traps', even if they have pop up warnings. i would suggest rather than a player can inject any skill book regardless if they have the prereqs to use it. the check should be placed on actually training a skill. if the character does not have the pre-reqs the skill cannot be trained. this kind of check would work well with players losing skill points when they have forgotten to update their medical clones as well. it would mean that a player never loses a skill entirely, just lose levels in the skill.hope this makes sense."
"at that point skill books are nothing more then simple isk sink, and a frustrating one at that...if you go as far as to let any character inject any skill you might as well give everyone all skills from the beginning just only allow them to train a skill if the prereq's are met.i do support the op's proposal though. it's really annoying if i have to leave a skill for the next day just because if i wait for the prereq to train i won't be able to sleep :p.one single time it does not matter but over the course of an eve career this can result in large wastes of time. in a training plan that runs for over 100 days, several of these choke points can prolong the training by even more. it takes enough time to train for stuff as it is."
"hm, the last time someone proposed this, i didn't vote, because i'm not sure about this. i agree, it would be conveinient, but i have no idea if there could be... complications with it. never the less, as no one came up with any real reasons to stop this the last time, and no one has come up with anything this time around either.i guess i'll support."
"lame. completely lame.how about this - you can que any skillbook, but it must be in your cargohold.there."
"supported!"
"that's not a bad thought, that, although the details could be a bit hard to work out.the way i see it, doing anything is better than doing nothing. at the moment, as i pointed out, the ships might as well not exist. even if the market ends up flooded with them, massively devalued, it's still arguably better than current circumstances- at least we get new ships. and even if we don't go that far (i'm absolutely not suggesting we should) even a few more of the ships injected into the game is an improvement over the sparse handful which are currently sitting in hangars accumulating dust."
"i can't believe that i totally agree with herschel once again"
"supported"
"it makes no sense that you can't transmit coordinates, we can do that today let alone being able to do it in a universe a gazillion times more advanced. supported.then please, do write it out, because this just makes no sense to me. if you put it like you did, it makes it look like you're saying no just for the sake of saying no..."
"you find the meeting minutes on the evelopedia and a raw log as well. as always, they are filed in the csm meeting minutes category."
"all this time i've been waiting and watching patiently here..."
"first post in the thread:reduct of the meeting minutes of csm 5 published 2009.07.24 12:30:00, meeting held 2009/07/19.wow a whole 5 days from the meeting to the minutes!all the csm meeting minutes are subject to ccp review. i am fully convinced that you are either a troll or heavily lacking in the capacity of searching the forum. making that thread a sticky would be a good thing, but it is still easy to find as it is in the second page of this section."
"just to clear this up, the only minutes that require ccp review are the ones where they are involved in the meeting. the time taken for the last few meetings' minutes is due to rl issues of the secretary and some bad communication between csm members (partially caused by our csm email's not working properly).csm3 is different to csm2, a lot more issues (however minor) are being raised by csm3 in an attempt to get a large list of things to raise with ccp in our meeting in iceland. it's taking longer to do these minutes, and i have no doubt if it was me doing them this time around, you wouldn't be seeing them as punctually as csm2 either.as for the rest - while i appreciate the nice comment on my csm2 minutes efforts, please keep in mind that english is not the primary language of the current secretary, so a little leeway on time to make the minutes readable and understandable is not too much to ask imho, especially considering the length these meetings have been taking."
"then i should apologize for giving a wrong information as a fact. knowing a bit what it mean to condensate a discussion, even one where all the text is already in written form, 5 days for a unpaid work is not bad at all."
"so you prefer useless decoration that can walk?nope... it's just eye-candy with a few very tiny features added in to make it appear like it's actually \"something\".there are so many people that couldn't care less about wis, that the idea is nothing in station will have any impact on any aspect of the game outside stations. you can't stab that alliance leader with a spoon just because you have spoon to lvl5. while about the only thing you can do that adds value is run a \"storefront\", which i guess is a simple list of your current contracts.it's nothing really....... just hype and candy to attract wow kids..... it has very little to do with existing users, much more about recruiting new ones who don't like spaceship games.edit: oh and the added isk sink of buying office decorations."
"yep"
"i, too, find this idea to be good (tm)."
"im thinking something along the lines of a cap ship suddenly being enveloped in the white cocoon of light like ships do when they go through stargates, then shooting off into the distance where a miniature wormhole opens up and accepts their ship in, closing behind them.and the cap pilot gets to watch their ship take off, into the wormhole.and the effect gets reversed for coming out of a cyno.yes, it is big and would look strange for large cap fleets. yes, it is totally awesome"
"this issue was raised and passed like... 6 weeks ago? it'll be brought up with ccp in september."
"need to be careful when comparing light neutron ii to rocket launcher ii.light neutron iicpu: 19, pg: 10.rocket launcher iicpu: 17, pg: 4.if rocket launchers shared a similar relationship with standard missiles, like torpedos do with cruise launchers when it comes to fitting then i'd completely agree with your damage increase proposal."
"most people will say \"hey, if you kill someone irl, all their stuff wouldn't go to you, it would go to his family (which a corp is as close as pod-pilots come to families).however, this isn't rl. this is internet spaceships. yes, the current mechanic is dumb.yes, this idea is a great improvement."
"the problem is that mechanics like these encourage larger and larger space holding alliances to exist. you get alliances holding entire regions without living in them. despite this, a smaller alliance can't move in because jump clones, jumpbridges and the like mean that the larger alliance can be on them before the first tower comes out of reinforced. they can do this even when they are currently fighting someone else on the other side of the map. it's also easier to have distant allies. there's no reason to not travel across the whole map when you can jumpclone back if any trouble comes up. this allows giant coalitions to intervene at will with little danger.jump bridges, jumpfreighters and jumpclones were all made to make fighting and holding space less tedious, which is great, but they have had side effects. i personally don't want to see it get any easier to move across space due to this."
"isk isnt a drawback anymore.make them lose sp when they jc for a second time in 24 hours equivalent to 0.5 m sp per 4 hours earlier than the timer they jc.sp lost is lost in the same fashion and according to same priorities as losing a cloen that isnt up to date.if its really that important to jc multiple times in 24 hours, suck it up carebears."
"hell i'll agree with this even if it only takes 30 mins off per level.. so have i just been trolled?"
"no, the universe is already too small, ccp should be focusing on making everything feel bigger, and more useful, not making it easier for people to teleport from one end of space to the other."
"your counterpoints would be much more valid if titans didnt exist. as it stands an entire fleet can be jump-bridged to a battle in minutes."
"yes please"
"yeah, it's a bit much"
"it should be a really subtle effect. it gets tiresome even when flying solo and have sensor booster on."
"old one was cooler"
"yeah, with bloom it looks a like a bit too much sometimes. kills fps too much too."
"wrong page"
"/supported"
"im also gonna say from my own personal experience that when ratting i have come back to a belt that i was chaining in recently and had a dg spawn with the rest of the bs as they all warped in. (meaning my spawn + a dg all warped in together)before apoc i never saw this after apoc was released im seeing and hearing about it alot more. i believe its something included in the new patch that might of bugged out the 0.0 ratting a bit but the income overrall from before the patch and now is substanially lower. this new rat warp in mechanic they tried using seems to have bugged out due to a huge lack in spawns. i can go to a say 14 belt system and have 3 spawns in the entire system? broken much? ccp definitely needs to take a look at there game mechanics for 0.0 especially there rat rates cause i would say they definitely need to be increased. full support on op's post aside from the insta -1 truesec mod i agree with the poster before me that recommend just a flat rate increase mod. -.3 or -.4 increase pos mod would definitely be sufficient and could revive most crap systems out there."
"in all honesty they have always done their best on my personal petitions.from talking to others it appears this is not always the case and hte lack of overall consistency is alarming.supporting."
"sir, your total lack of interest is here for all of us to see. surely exactly this obvious real life orientation that you have is responsible for you posting extensively within this internet spaceshipz thread.your obvious trolling attempt has been noted as being very weak, and it denotes lack of arguments as well as an increased level of cowardice. 3/10get well soon."
"outsource the whole regular gm system to an indian call centre. they actually have a real chance to starve if they don't do their job, they have better english comprehension and likely don't play eve, so far less low to medium level corruption.you might need to train them about what a skill queue that has locked up yet again looks like, but once that is done, is all smooth sailing."
"full support.a friend of mine once reported the fire stuck bug, and after 3 months of being sent from a gm to a gm and telling each one that the missiles never get fired, they are not in the logs, or anything, final reply was: \"do you realize that if you have a missile group, all the missiles fly as one, and you only see one missile\".no **** sherlock. flying a nighthawk, and only just realised that."
"i haven't posted a lot of petitions, but yes, they can be quite uselss..nhf, fellas."
"fully supported"
"quoted for truth."
"qft too.privateers.got.it.wrong.edit: this too"
"insurance actually props up prices in game, removing it would in all likely hood crash prices through the floor on many items.but the linkages and economics of the mineral market/insurance faucet can be pretty hard to wrap your head around though."
"yes, but how much lower can they go? if the prices of minerals fall, people aren't going to waste their time gathering them, so the supply will also diminish bringing the price up to acceptable levels where production is worth doing again. mining income is not that good at the moment, so how much lower do you think the price can come before people start to abandon mining for good?regardless i'm bit iffy about major changes to insurance. now you can keep up a pvp lifestyle with minimal outside activities and i'm keen to keep it that way. people flying cheap insurable ships are at a disadvantage against people who invest more in their non-insurable ships anyway. this variation allows for better risk management and you can keep playing the game in a way you like even with a thin wallet(includes new players). now people have the option to avoid playing the game in ways they don't like at the cost of some performance loss. this to me seems like a good option to have in the game."
"yes, but how much lower can they go? if the prices of minerals fall, people aren't going to waste their time gathering them, so the supply will also diminish bringing the price up to acceptable levels where production is worth doing again. mining income is not that good at the moment, so how much lower do you think the price can come before people start to abandon mining for good?regardless i'm bit iffy about major changes to insurance. now you can keep up a pvp lifestyle with minimal outside activities and i'm keen to keep it that way. people flying cheap insurable ships are at a disadvantage against people who invest more in their non-insurable ships anyway. this variation allows for better risk management and you can keep playing the game in a way you like even with a thin wallet(includes new players). now people have the option to avoid playing the game in ways they don't like at the cost of some performance loss. this to me seems like a good option to have in the game.its disingenuous to think thatif you follow this through to its end. we remove insurance or lower its effectiveness. either way reduces the conversion of minerals to isk and back again. its a great cycle really.people would still blow things up, but now with less reward on the end of it they would have incentive to pay less for it, and obviously because of a smaller faucet they would have less as well.the cycle would stay the same, but you'd see a natural float downward of all prices except for those that have the most risk and or those items which have odd disposition of mineral make ups.. capitals namely.as much as i would love to see insurance dissapear, i don't think it will ever happen. its a great tool for predicting mineral prices and honestly because of this i'm quite positive that someone at ccp has the job of planning game balances/loot drops/loot disposition make ups, etc... with the intent of controlling the amount of minerals/isk coming into the game to maintain some semblance of order as you migrate from 1.0 to 0.0...at least i still have hope that this is the case"
"thanks for doing the maths.payout - premium = 75m ( according to your numbers )floor on price of tempest = 75mif they were to become cheeper than 75m then it would be profitable to blow them up.you think its just chance that retail price of 78m is just above this number ???"
"losses should mean something.edit: i dont like you carebears."
"we don't like you either.but occasionally we're in agreement about things."
"did i marry you in a past life?"
"de? carebear? then what the hell is that? (points at razor sharp claws and teeth)"
"didnt proj's used to use capacitor and hence benifit from controlled bursts ?if so its an easy fix to get controlled bursts to work with projectiles again.make them use cap and undo the buff they got.complaining that cb no longer helps proj's cause they dont use cap any more ( a boost ) is rather lame."
"i don't fly minmatar, but i support it."
"true, it is a boost. however, you have forgotten the change that was made to vamps and neuts a while back making this boost moot point. and since you have played eve for quite a while, you are no doubt well aware that minmatar battleships have the lowest cap (and thus, the lowest recharge rate), so really the capless gun argument really just balanced an inferior weapon system back prior to the amarr boost, the hp boost, the speed nerf, the vamp/neut nerf, etc. all of those indirectly harmed minmatar combat tactics and ships... especially the battleship sized weapon systems."
"sounds like your scout is ****ing useless and doesnt know wha the d scanner is.instantaneous omniscient local needs to go."
"what i prefer: local in delayed mode, nothing else changed. what i'll settle for: my proposal. i agree that simply switching local to delayed mode would be the best option, but i'm trying to come up with compromises."
"i support this idea"
"definitely has my vote."
"yeah, this should have been done long ago.supported."
"a good compromise, in my opinion."
"yeah there's absolutely no reason to remove the ability to contract them, just lie you can contract any item on the market currently. for some rare items it would probably still be the prefered method together with the market forum.anyone who has ever had to shift a pile of low end faction or complex stuff knows the pain of managing it all though. i have idk, must be going on 100 random mods sitting in amarr because the amount of time and effort it would take for me to actually sell them is ridiculous."
"the current setup means that \"based at\" can't be used for most things, although it is the most logical, and if more then one station could be set as the users base then it would work very well.instead corps are forced to use \"other\" which includes much more the intended access."
"corp management needs a lot of changes, but this looks like a good start."
"yes there needs to be a lot of changes but this would be a good start"
"my understanding is the pod travel is free.there just needs to be at least be 1 unit of lo in the jump bridge (ie the bridge network is maintained) for it to activate.however i could be wrong in this regard."
"paris hilton plays eve too?...that's hot"
"obviously, addons are a major pro to any game.there are a lot of things that could look better and use screen space more efficiently, including the overview, chat windows, the basic hud, along with the way modules are displayed and the list could go on.i noticed that a lot of people are confusing hacks with addons. i don't see how addons that make it easier for people to use the interface could harm anyone.the ability to modify these aspects is an important improvement for any mmo, and it's a sign of progress, in my opinion. games that cannot be tweaked, visually, or functions that cannot be enhanced by way of volunteer scripting are a thing of the past.if you check out all the emerging mmos, one would notice that all of them are designed with this possibility in mind. the addon perspective also increases originality and the average lifetime of a game. why? because being able to customize your ui is like being able to pimp out your car, it makes you like it more, it provides stuff that you need (and others may not need) and it would allow for more people to get into eve which = more subs for ccp and more people to shoot/be shot by for us.two thumbs up!"
"unsupportedtho i do think they should allow some sort of marco mining client. as my main (this one) is pvp, and my alt is hulk miner. i'd preffer to minamize alts cleint for 30mins-1hr and let it just mine.as it stands i can fill cargo in about 8-10minsbasic mods would be good likehud/neo-com/ui modscustom paint jobs (it could only be cleint side as it would coz wayyyyy to mutch lag loading custom paint jobs, but server side would be cool somin like black, white, blue, red, yellow etc..) maelstrom would be cool blackmining scriptsthings that can't be moddedany type of combat mods is a noexcept maybe a afk for miners, pve pilots with a auto drone launch when a 3rd party cause agro to you. that would also help canflipers, low sec pirates.i don't.then it give's a unfair advantage to others that can write scripts that help them out and them only.especaily if theres a combat mod/scriptinglevel playing feild is the only way to go.last thing i want is to engage in a fight half way through the pilot pressies one button and a rr bs jumps in a rep his ass (his alt cleints). atleast at the moment he has to alt-tab switch, right click warp to member. modder could do this in one button pressurgh!!!!! there you go a scripters advangtage right there"
"my god, privateer recruitment standards have really dropped... oh wait.dear privateer, could you please exemplify what you understand by \"combat mods\"? we're talking about ui customizing here. illiterate ppl itt!"
"no"
"not supported!"
"when browsing kills either in corp or personal kill/loss log.if a kill is clicked open it up in an instance of the fitting screen .keep the text on double click for posting mail purposes."
"you already have that feature on all decent killboards.implementing in game would take ccp staff at least 1 week, time that would have been better spent on things not already available.people should tone it down on new idea generation in assembly hall"
"supported - this is how it ought to work. just because third parties can do it doesn't mean that ccp shouldn't as well."
"proposal:any player that enters a system via blackops mediated travel does not appear in local.local is treated as delayed, as in wh's, for this specific individual.-if they speak in local they appear in local, just like the current system in wh'ssaid player will not appear in local of that system unless:-they dock and undock from an npc station.-they use a stargate to jump out of the system, then re-enter it via a stargate.any player that enters a system via a wormhole benefits form the same mechanic outlined above"
"ye"
"not supported. the wh delay swings both ways, your proposal only benefits one side. additionally, there is no way to counter the method. i could easily see, someone throwing a covert cyno in a system, bring in the blackops fleet and then logoff themselves. local would appear to be empty, offensive would be able to monitor for anyone else coming and going. they could also use it as a scout, which coupled with the afk cloak method, you could have eyes in a system and no one would ever know.it all, i don't see this as enhancing game play in a balanced point - counterpoint method."
"log-off games are boring.quickly becoming a fan of the \"remove local altogether\" club."
"especially this:scifi background:there is no concord information about people going from w- to k-space, because there is no gate usage. balancing background:wormholes are unpredictable and seldom in \"right\" place, thus nobody could abuse it.i think a ~30-60sec local delay for w-k-space travelers could indeed help all guerilleros in eve.no delay for cov op cyno. this would end in ridiculous ganking."
"interesting idea, but i'll say the same thing i have to every other local nerf. if you can't use alternate methods of intel-gathering to find people, you need local. until those methods are implemented, local needs to stay omniscient."
"local should go entirely to delayed mode, not just for covert operations, in 0.0 space. directional scanner and other ship-based intell tools should be improved (however i would support the change to local even before/without improved scanning tools)."
"idea either deserves support or not. leave judgment if its to complex to be implemented to eve developers"
"super capitals i could see being a team effort.huge ships flown by multiple pilots, each one accessing a different area and when all are in together its gets better bonuses, etc..."
"this and supported."
"i thought i was rather clear on which side of that line i thought it was on. this would hurt the game through excess complexity more than it would help it through new strategy. and no, that's not a decision i feel i have to leave to ccp - it's not an implementation issue, it's fundamental to the proposal. as such, i don't support it."
"yep, i cant see why it would be very complicated to sort out tbh. that's exactly the sort of way i was thinking it could work.i remember there were hirable crew in a space game back in the 90's, can't remember which one tho"
"my idea is to create a corporation role that allows / disallows combat between other corp members. this would prevent people joining a corp for the purpose of killing unsuspecting corp members and property, yet still allowing corp combat for ship testing, frig fights, etc.ideas, comments, or random outbursts?"
"don't recruit people you can't trust, and even after recruiting them, don't trust them too much. move around with a defense method ready."
"i think we should make this game more like wow."
"this is a terrible idea,hth."
"yes, i want more ways to prevent pvp in my pvp-centric spaceships game.don't do this. allowing corp to corp combat is a major way to penalize ceos/directors who do a bad job of recruiting. making someone a member should involve giving that person some trust. the current implementation does a good job doing so."
"[random outburst]the hell?[/random outburst]"
"i disagree with everything you stand for."
"give the guy a break, he just waiting for walking in stations so he never has to undock again."
"bad idea imo. just be more selective in your recruitment. plus the absence of this role on a pilot could easily lead to other griefing tactics. remote rep + pew pew to cause concord to kill the harmless remote repper comes to mind."
"there's this ship... its called an interdictor..."
"i'm waiting for the part how a cov ops cloak makes it overpowered?"
"came in expecting this to be a whine that the bonus wasn't high enough.. left disappointed that i couldn't say \"your doing it wrong\".. oh, and i voted for it cos well yeah, if your taking fire in a blockade runner your pretty much dead no matter how its tanked."
"hi,introducing you to pl - the worst posters on the forums."
"yes... we've met... there' reputation is quite pandemic."
"it's a pity the who doesn't have a cure for them yet."
"remote stacking was brought up in an earlier csm i think and was agreed that it could be a possibility and if the resources to make it happen weren't great we could expect it added to the development pipeline... no set time date was given obviously.in fact i think lvv brought it up in the first csm"
"um how you get it delivered isn't my problem and has nothing to do with remote stacking and mass sell offs across a region with the click of a button. using delivery's to supplement an argument that has nothing to do with making deliveries faster is like arguing for a turret bonus on a drake.your idea makes it vastly easier to operate a bot network not a single mission running bot. big difference between fixing the market prices in an entire region to farm isk on an unparalleled scale in a way that ccp has yet to figure out how to stop and a simple macro mission runner.what about boting the crap out of the market don't you understand? apparently for a trader you don't pay much attention to how bot's can update market orders every xx number of seconds on the dot every time you under bid by your .01 isk and they are not getting banned left and right because the .01 isk'ers are to ocd to not expect the other .01 isk'ers to not do the same thing. maybe if you were not adjusting your market order by .01 isk every few minutes you would have time to manage your operation with the current methods provided to you. lol /me thinks you don't know what your talking about.if you don't leave the station what do deliveries have to do with your argument? i do not trade full time anymore no, but i do participate in a market war to suppress prices when people like you are pushing over market value for items. so if people like me leave you stuck with an inventory full of implants that you are going to lose money on then good. implants are volatile because of the bubbles traders artificially inflate around them. sorry if i burst your bubble. you are not talking about remotely stacking goods in a hanger 5 jumps away you are talking about remotely moving goods from your hanger to other player hangers and being able to sell off all the goods you have in a region with one click rather than selecting the item in its hanger and selling it from there per your original post. that isn't remote management that is useful for a simple trader setting in a station. that is reducing the steps necessary for operating a region wide bot network much more efficiently.if remote stacking is such an issue why not include remote repackaging so that all players can benefit? region wide sell offs and between hanger moves is just a disaster waiting to happen."
"sorry to be bearer of bad news but ccp already have something in the pipeline apparently.also my idea here orca boost to ferry battleship rigged."
"translating my proposals into language understandable by devs that doesnt make carebears develop lockjaw."
"i don't think it will ever be big... but if nothing else, being able to meet your agents, and visit corp offices physically would be amusing."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"bringing the thread back where it belongs"
"let's not jump to conclusions here."
"i find it fascinating that a member of privateer alliance has started this - i am actually supporting this because they relentlessly use this tactic. i agree with everyone who has expressed that people who involve themselves in a pvp fight on any level should become valid targets for all involved parties.thanks,kuan"
"i think the effect sucks. the worst part is the sound of it, that messes up everything else. a nice quiet halo - that would be cool. change the color of the halo depending on the type of sensor booster (the way lasers change for type, ecm module icons for type... etc).maybe a black halo and a red-shifting of the ship color and light."
"the scale of the effect, that is to say it's visible strength, is quite disproportional to it's importance. that is to say you can see from 100km away even without zooming in that a fleet of ships are fitted with and using sensor boosters. by the same token, you can barely discern the visual effect of remote sensor dampeners, tracking disruptors, warp disruptors or sensor jammers.i'd say that visual effects of modules that are self-only produce a subtle visual cue. effects from targeted modules, like those listed above, should have a clear, concise and easily identifiable cue. much like a beam laser shooting 200km (where you can clearly identify not only the source but also the target) so should targeted effects produce such an easily identifiable cue."
"tone the f-ing thing down. it's much too prominent for what it's showing.the old effect was a lot better, and nice to look at. almost hypnotic."
"support"
"if you triple the spawns of faction/officer loot, won't that in effect reduce thier values?for that matter, won't flooding the game with more isk faucets just create inflation?and i don't really get the point of a pos mod to boost rattng potential. if i conquer serpentis space, why would they come by more often?i think if loot tables for adjusted and the mining ratios changed in both empire and 0.0, there would be a more appropriate balance for individual players. empire is for solo wealth growing. 0.0 is about alliance riches. can an empire corp seriously match up against a 0.0 corp for funding?a more appropriate way to spread people out and use every system in 0.0 is to have npc's build up in systems without \"ratters\" threatening them. i think for every hour and every day a ratter isn't present in a system, the npc's should go and build up more and better forces. when a ratter comes in and knocks them down, they start over. officers should be like raids on a system. when officers come by, it creates an event where they attack either you or some complex in the system as a means of regaining control. officers would be another good way to threaten sov of space. imagine if you didn't defend against an officer raid, losing sov in a system and having to start anew. it would definitely force your alliance to defend it's home."
"as far as faction goes, the only thing that needs to be done is fix it so 40~60% of all officer spawns don't happen within 2 hours after dt. it is unjust to everyone who cannot get online in that time period. fixing that problem would simply crease the appearance of more spawns, as distribution evens out.that alone would not be enough to make 0.0 that much more attractive, something else should happen. i believe the main problem is in the high sec level 4 missions. they are simply unreasonable. making 0.0 more attractive than that will either flood the market with officer loot or create big inflation with isk"
"no more spending 5 hours straight clearing endless bc / cruiser spawns from a 20 belt ratting system in 0.0? yes please! supported, 100%."
"this is a great idea and well though out. hopefully it leads to more ratters to shoot as well"
"better rats = more attractive 0.0 = more people in 0.0 = moar targets"
"not a bad idea. i like it. :)"
"as someone who lives in providence... supported. best spawns we see is dual 1.1m and those are rare. i just run lvl 4 missions nowadays, ratting isn't simply worth it."
"same here in immensea. made an honest attempt at ratting, then went back to mission-whoring for 2x the result.hurrah for untouchable, unlimited, non-competing income sources!"
"you are right. it is the miners, that have the problem with this.you are also right, that most hulk pilots safe up, as a mining barge isnt that great a combat ship.you are also right about 0.0 isnt safe and never should be. what we want however, is the ability to remove a threat to us, by docking up changing to a combat ship, move out and engage the enemy. im not saying it should be easy to kill cov ops cloak, or other cloackers, just want a very tiny small chance, of actually dealing with the \"problem\"."
"dead on. this is not a good idea.not supported."
"signed and not supported."
"posting to confirm the gm's here are pretty much failreceived a forum ban once... petitioned with about 1000000 examples of posts that fit the same description given for why i received the ban... simply asked why they were still posting and i was banned.never got an answer to that, just that my ban would remain in place."
"this has been a problem for far too long. ccp really needs to invest in a community relations force to take back their game and finally start showing that they're here to serve their customers and not the other way around. forcing players to endure harsh consequences is one thing, not caring and employing over-worked, under qualified slackers is another."
"a great idea would be to outsource it. this is where i used to work."
"issues are still missing..is this being updated or forgotten?"
"although this thread is a great idea, it doesn't seem to have been updated in a while.... like a year. is there any chance we can get an updated version, or do we need to restart and de-sticky this one?"
"or just remove insurance altogether."
"remove insurance completely...you still get a rookie ship for free if you have nothing left in the hangar...what ever happened to the crowd that says:\"dont fly what you cant afford to lose\"\"eve is a harsh place\"and you are here defending insurance?!?!?!"
"shhh. i'm in disguise."
"not supported."
"i would have to say that nerfing 1 weapon(lasers/scorch) is not the way to go, projectiles need a buff somewhere in the 5-10% region.also the pest defiantly needs a minor re-working and the phoon should get 2 more launcher & turret hardpoints also so it's not forced to use split weapons."
"i dont see what any of the above has to do with the merits of one gun system over another.c.b. used to get applied to mini guns when they used cap.i suspect they still get the bonus from c.b. but as 0 x 0.75 = 0 you just dont see it.mini are always complaining about how much they have to train.i could be wrong but i dont think mini need to train c.b. for t2 projs.so gal/cal/amarr have to train c.b. to stop there guns emptying there cap and your complaining because mini dont need to train it at all.really i think your glass is half empty."
"admittedly, it is nice to not to have to train another skill.but, that being said.. with the various boosts like:the hp boost - made the alpha strike considerably less effective, as well as exposes the weakness of the minmatar active tank (which now requires more cap to maintain) and the minmatar passive tank (which in general has less mid and low slots, and thus less tank in comparision to other races)the vamp/neut nerf - while this effected everyone, minmatar ships generally (most notably the tempest) relied on the vamp ability to drain an enemy cap, while also being able to refill their own.amarr weapon boost - certainly a needed boost for the previously anemic amarr weapon systems, now close range acs (using short range ammo) are forced to attack at the pulse's optimal (using short range ammo) as their optimal is greater than the acs optimal + falloff. artillery cannot produce the range or damage that railguns and beam weapons can field, especially with the problems of damage quality after going into falloff.the speed nerf - personally, i think while this wasn't a buff per se, it hurt minmatar the least. however, it did hurt them as it removed our bs' ability to lock targets down enough that its weapons could be a factor (for example, clearing out cruisers and bc class ships).now, while it is true that hybrids and lasers use cap, they have some inherit logistical advantages over projectiles. hybrids, while they do use cap, have large clips.. thus less reloads and more time fighting. lasers get even a better bonus, their ammo changes instantly.overall, the problem because that when you take a weapon system that does less damage than its counterparts, and put it on a ship that can't tank as well as its counterparts, and don't give it any outstanding advantages over said counterparts, then you will lose or leave (usually lose).not sure about you, but spending 30+mil sp points to lose to a ship where the pilot only has 6mil sp points doesn't sit well with me."
"remove local would require a replacement that's almost as useful but not quite. otherwise people will just leave 0.0 as they have zero ability to protect themselves, or find targets.i've enumerated my proposal in other identical threads: ship sensorspassive; always on, not very informative, takes time to get any info about a signature. but you know something is out there immediately.online passive; the one we use now.online active; whenever you hit the 'scan' button it pings local space. objects are a lot easier to identify/pinpoint, but so are you."
"both your arguments conflict with each other. you can't protect yourself when you're not found?"
"hehe.. nice. logic fail! i imagine pirates flying in circles unable to find anything to attack and hopeless victims self-destructing in terror."
"posting in a bellum whioh rightsupported"
"speak for yourself, i'd do just fine in 0.0 even if local was removed without any other improvements to scan mechanics.\"zero ability to protect themselves\" - that automatically discredits any point you are trying to make"
"support this. if you think the only thing between a pod kill and not is the implants aren't on the kill mail, you are delusional."
"*"
"erm orca is intend to be a mini-freighter to bridge the gap between freighter and industrial. as for mining skill just training mining barge as it is \"frigate/cruiser\" equal to racial capital ship for the 4 empires.i already have a simpler idea and it even have less programming overhead as you only adjust one number in the database. i would like at least to avoid all possibility of introducing new bugs or even \"features\".orca's expand to sub-rorqual capability only one battleship can fit."
"another reason is from the dev blog \"my rifter is equipped with the following rigs\". ccp is looking at different methods."
"exactly... i hate having to contract each of the caldari caracals and ravens rather than being able to slop down the entire bunch in the market and be done with it."
"i fail to see how this would hurt contracts.right now if i, say, want a t2 barge, i can pull them from the local market or from contract. sellers decide if they want 'easy to browse local' or 'difficult to browse global' and thus have flexibility.contracts, as they are currently implement, make finding classes of items very frustrating. esp when some items might have a dozen or more different meta levels. for some sellers, making your item harder to find is not an advantage."
"what this guy said.if you're logistics are so terrible that a jump bridge doesn't even have 1 lo handy to fuel the bridge, then you pod pilots should suffer the burdeon of gate travel. heaven forbid they might actually get podded."
"/s"
"is it possible this issue will be addressed by 1.5 and the addition of cargo holds for fuel only?if not, support. seems silly to tax something that cannot pay."
"not supported."
"i'd have to agree with this. fix low sec before 0.0 sec."
"yeah it's getting a pretty common topic nowadays. not the first thread regarding the size of 0.0.aside from that \"fix low sec before\", it's still worth a discussion.ccp is gonna revamp 0.0 with their next expansion, but aside from that there's not much known about it i think.there's a simple problem which can't be simply fixed. alliances control too much of the space, without any possibility to take it from them. it's not important which space you're looking for, get 2000 people, achieve nothing. without being blue to either the south or the north you're going nowhere.so it comes down to just a few points:1. it's too hard to take sov from alliances. you shoot someone's tower, come back after x hours with your 10 dread mighty alliance fleet and there you have the 50 dreads of the opposing alliance. the stront timers make it possible to lose in your own time zone, just because the hostile alliance times their towers. this is one of the things that make space too small. a dread fleet shouldn't be able to respond too fast if the attacking fleet does the strike. the stront timers make it kind of impossible to deal severe damage by hit and run tactics against superior (numbers) alliances. tl;dr: if an alliance can't respond to attackers fast enough, it doesn't deserve its space. the moment you notice you're under siege, is the moment to get your people together.also it's a difference if you try to take the space of an alliance controlling 5 systems (including people in it of altogether 100 or more) or of an alliance controlling 50 systems with 300 people spread out. a good tactic can make it impossible for those 300 people to defend some dead-end somewhere. this is the way it should be (in my opinion), not that timed blobbing **** we have right now.2. space is too small. yeah, there's a lot (and a lot more) of empty systems. but still it's too easy to hunt lonely people down, especially when regions are covered by a single intel channel. and again, it's too easy to respond to attackers. example: once a roaming gang comes in, it's usually 5 jumps out and taking a predicted route. shout at titan pilot, warp bait with cyno gen to gate, get aggressed, cyno, hotdrop, this gang is either ****ed or runs off.it should be more like \"where the hell are they\".also important are the logistics. the further your space is, the harder it should be controllable. especially the supply. if you can't manage to seed ships/mods to your alliance members, because you are unable to get stuff to some place 50 jumps from empire, then you don't deserve your space. i remember how it was in zaf's old space down in tenerifis. if you wanted to avoid aaa space to go through blue space, that meant about 50 jumps. nothing you really wanna do without fast ship or cloak. so an alliance would have to care for jump freighters and their routes to supply it's own members.and another thing, jump clones. i think they'd already nerf themselves if you increase 0.0 profitability/nerf level 4 missions. but i don't like the fact of being able to safely do 50+ (plus implants saved) in a few seconds. if you want to control space, keep your members in place. otherwise stay in high sec.same goes for titan bridges, nice thing indeed, don't want to say too much about it. but they also make it too easy to move whole fleets (and especially rallying them). moving 200 people in the same moment is easy, but having 200 people come from different systems to a destination is a nightmare.3. pos stuff, which i already mentioned before. it all comes down to reinforcing a pos and coming back/defending at the time the tower (or the alliance) says. we'll see how that is gonna be fixed. but that's another whole topic.well those are the points that i personally don't like."
"\"wall hacks\" lol.there are two kinds of multiplayer environments. one, such as in the xna game engine and directx systems (like used for fps games where you can run your own server) do put collision detection and other rule-keeping routines in the clients, making hacked clients the thing of course. yes, if you shut down collision detection in your client, you can pass through walls. more common are those \"head hunter\" or \"head shot bots\" seen in fps games where, whether client-server or peer to peer, if the collision detection is on the client, it can be hacked. mmos typically do not keep rules on the client level. if it were up to every eve client to determine if their ship was hit or not, that would have been hacked years ago and we would still be talking about that raid on empire space where even concord got popped. the eve client, like the wow client, is quite \"dumb\" in that it only interfaces the user and the game construct, but does not keep, track, or enforce the rules. ever notice how the screen lags when the network lags, or how the ship does not respond if the connection temporarily goes into a high ping state? that's because you only issue commands to the server, but your client does not update your view of the environment until the server sends that information. wow does this as well, with the only exception i have noticed being the map height collision and collision with large objects such as trees and structures. this is mostly irrelevant because you can shoot/cast through them, and if you beat the map height, the server \"knows\" you busted the altitude rule. once i fell off the world in that game, into nothing, and died at a certain point of the drop. customization of the eve client would not give anybody any advantage over anybody else as far as rules are concerned. nobody gets an i win button. the server keeps the same rules and the client can only send user input and update user perception back. as for programmers having an advantage over everybody else, there is no history of that. nobody is going to spend a month on a good client mod just to keep it a dark secret. programmers need work, and making a popular script or interface mod is a great resume builder. and client mods only give end users the ability to put buttons and views where they want. a fully customized ui only makes the client fit the brain of the user, but the user still has to know how to play and have the right skills. if i move the locked targets from the uppper right to the left or along the bottom, that does not make them locked up easier or easier to hit. and i don't assume that people with weak necks who can't look up would get and advantage over me when those ships are no longer displayed along the top. i suggest that the detractors here look at other systems and see how their client uis were modded, and see that this is not as harmful as it appears."
"oh god yes can we have this done last year please!"
"herzog wolfhammer nailed it. addons are a sign of progress, and they should be implemented -asap-."
"i would be in favor of some kind of plug-in system.but instead of it being an easily modified interface where you can exchange version freely, i would rather see a market like solution. players develop mods, package them up, upload them to the in-game markets, and other players pay for and download them. mods stay with the account (or even toon) after that."
"i can think of some mods that could enhance things where some players who have it got an advantage, but therein also sits a solution.take for example the case with scan probes. when you reduce the au scanning radii, you have to move each probe of the cluster closer to each other to regain the lost overlap. now imagine if it were possible that this was done automatically in the client. that the distance of the probes in the cluster would remain constant with the variable of the au search radius. why, the player who has that would scan things down faster than those who don't! emoragequit emoragequit!!!!!!!!such a mo would have to be incorporated into the eve client. look at the wow client and see how it's extremely easy to find some great mods that help game play. if such mods were written, and then incorporated into the stock client by ccp by their own standards, that would be the holy grail of client customization. the person who wrote it would be \"famous\" in a way. and this would be a feature that explorers are already begging for and ccp would have invested very little time and money on development. i would even hope the ccp offers some plex or isk for such accomplishments, maybe a faction ship as a reward or something rare. a stock setting of the client will no affect mining bots either, and those who don't want to have to put in a module because they simply don't want to (being that lazy in a simulation game is as close to being an inanimate object as i could imagine) simply don't have to. to say that things should stay the same because some people just don't care to, and therefore we all have to remain at their level, is a kind of socialism in game content that keeps mmos from expanding. i have witnessed it myself, there are people who won't play a game if they cannot customize their interface. i have seen people get completely turned off by such client programs that they could not rearrange."
"no support.this and the fuel idea are bad ideas."
"not everyone uses kb's, ingame flat text is meh compared to 3rd party apps , this is not a good state of afares.i dont prentend to understand how easy/hard it would be to implement , i would just like the csm to request it from the devs and let them decide.luckily for the rest of us , you are not in charge of the hall oh yes and supporting my own proposal at last"
"either way this isn't going to happen, since the idea did not receive significant public supportthere are many posts like this on the forum, all they do is distract csm from really important issues with large player support, and give devs more excuses not to act. i thought you were smart enough to understand that. the only way csm can succeed is being very focused and determined on several key issues, with public keeping attention on the goal, without distractions."
"this hasn't proven to be the case at all. plenty of minor issues have been raised, and some implemented, without obviously changing the status of the big ones. they have tools to prevent this sort of thing from happening - priority lists, discussion scheduling, and the like. your concern seems unwarranted."
"remember when they added \"view market details\" to the right click menu on items in the build list of a bpo. ??this was a very small change that made a big ( industry related ) improvement to the game.lots of small improvements can add up to extra uberness, not everything has to be a huge topic of concern to thousands."
"that wasn't a csm issue.you are still confusing the purpose of this forum and organization with the features and ideas forum - which has been established since the game began exactly for this purpose."
"remove local everywhere in eve, not just 0.0! it would make both positive and negtive sec status operations more interesting."
"crew = fail.will never happen, and shouldn't."
"this has been discussed since beta. however there is by no means consensus internally in ccp. the argument against it is that capsuleers are demigods. they don't need crew"
"this is a stupid idea born of a stupid person to protect themselves from their own stupidity."
"free nonnis!"
"the minutes for csm3-6 were posted to forum and not added to wiki.while csm3-7 is yet to be published.you'll notice the partisipation rate drops when minutes aren't published and the discussion starts to become very unfocused as no one is \"on the same page\". issues that were active slide into obscurity as everyone sits on their hands waiting for the response.if the csm is in isolation not communicating it's discussions back to the community then the whole system quickly breaks."
"i've been out of town and busy irl, that's why i haven't even submitted any issues last couple meetings. although i didn't volunteer to write the minutes, i do enjoy reading dr. battlesmith crying about them."
"please bring back the old cyno jump :("
"/signed"
"i am in your thread, signing your proposals"
"supported"
"bump, cause this thread deserves it."
"this. you wanna cj more thanb the average player? you pay for it with something valuable."
"like, reducing speed on all ships by half?and then perhaps remove wtz and put the minimum distance at 100km?surely this would make the universe seem bigger.or while at it, why not make it so you have to press keys to advance? useless grind/time lost is good, isn't it?let's make the boring parts of the game even more boring and annoying, everyone will be glad about this, i'm sure!seriously, maybe i'm playing the wrong end of the game (possible, as i'm outside of alliances) but i don't think the universe is small at all.i'm bored enough when i have to travel a dozen jumps, even if i'm using a shuttle and don't fly with ap.no reason to make it worse than it is."
"i occasionally get he sound popping issue when i open the map. i hear the pop and the sound often becomes all modulated after the pop.i actually think that this could have caused my headset to break (right side went out). i bought the new headset and i am now waiting for the next patch to enable eve sounds again.realtek alc888 on board audio."
"ugh!"
"support, my eyes bleed in fleets. think of the eyes!"
"yes please change this effect to something more subtle"
"i agree npc's especially in fw plexes, and ecm using npc's need to be reevaluated."
"when spending a large portion of time in the map screen due to the new scanning system, imo the ability to cloak is very important for finding exploration content in low/nullsec.while it is true that you likely won't be finding me when cloaked in a deep safespot, it's also true that i'm not planning on running these sites in my helios."
"well ccp already was/is outsorcing gms, and it didnt went well as we can see, but then again as my ppl would say \"the fish stinks from the head\" i am prety much sure that outsourcing is not the essence of the problem. if there are proper procedures when recruiting gms, testing their ingame knowledge and monitoring their work, it would limit the ammount of issues we are having now.also branching the type of petitions is extremely bad and it needs to be reworked aswell. eve is a complex world and even i (and i think that i am allrounded player with vast knowledge of mechanics) in many cases dunno how something \"realy\" works in eve.the problem starts when certain (or all, cant say) gms are covering all kind of petitions. i had cases when same gm who was working on f.e. unstucking from jita, is answering sov related petitions where he doesnt have a clue either of what i am petitioning nor what he is answering to me. for certain type of petitions, like billing issues, unstucking chars, and further (cant check right now all they types) char transfer and similar issues you really dont need eve einsteins to handle them, cause tbh u need really narrow and shallow eve knowledge to do that (and we still have 24+ time response on some of them)for a long time i was pursuing that gms need to actively play the game, and not just gms but all ccp employers. i know that many ccp guys are playing as carebears, but i think (i can be wrong ofc, but its rare cases of me being wrong :d ) that there is not much ccp guys doing 0.0 serious warfare. i know that after t20 incident ccp got much more strict and afaik now if u r employed by ccp your accounts got on ice and you can play only with new anonymous new accounts.somehow i think its not solving any problems, because i personaly think that t20 was ccp fault only in hiring hmm lets be nice and say - bad person, who was ******ed enought to spawn t2 bpos. lets be perfectly honest even now with much more improved and tightened internal procedured in ccp you can \"theoreticaly\" (i am prety much sure there are not any cases of this atm) leak certain info to your favorite ingame entity. hell i am sure i could work for ccp, not play eve at all and lead my alliance (also theoreticaly speaking). only thing stoping me, and i think only thing which can stop at all ccp employes of not doing stupid stuff is their conscience. same goes for gms - let them play cause thats the only way for them to realy know what is going ingame. its realy not enough for them just to spawn when node starts colapsing and to write in blue color in local chat.i am completely aware that ccp has limited resources which can allocate to gm department but i am 100% positive (ofc i can be wrong :d but as said above its not a common thing to happen) that gm dept can be wastly improved - \"where there's a will, there's a way\"i hope lavista will not find this post whiny or unproffesional"
"."
"the whole thing is tl;dr by now but so much:i totally agree with the initial post. i have at this point very little trust in ccp to the point where i don't bother anymore with petitions, or bug reports (e.g. because i am just being told to \"recreate\" a situation on the server thats evidently hard or impossible for me to recreate) or reporting ****posts like the phishing ones because the per-incident reaction is a joke, or reporting rmt, because they also only respond per incident without any visible intent to be improving anything without locking out a rmt'er for more than 5 minutes max.add to that the general suckage of the web tools, once you have written the same bug report thrice, it just ain't that important anymore (motivation, especially for helping a company for free, is a b****). i understand they are working on improving the web stuff, but then again was there actually a time when they were not?it'd take a long time to regain some trust in any case even if they had any intent.also, i think its been said, lack of inter-departmental comms wtl.i would add my own examples of glaring inconsistencies but it'll just get modded anyway so why bother.ultimately however, what he said, a couple of pages above, involving that dead horse and the beating."
"supported"
"although i agree that insurance needs a revamp ( self destruction, concord kills, payout fee for non insured ships ... ) i don't like the proposal you make here. it'll just make it a lot harder for a lot of ppl to commit to a fight. so they will either: carebear or blob. not supported"
"i almost always insure my ships and the payouts never came close to making me feel like loosing one didn't cost me anything. it just cushioned the blow a bit. there are many degrees between 'cruel and unforgiving game' and 'hello kitty online'. 'wow style hand-holding' is a mater of opinion and could be slapped on any mechanic to suit an argument. ex. there should be permadeath with unavoidable and total skill loss - no more of this wow style hand holding!providing a challenge or motivator for players through use of harsh mechanics is one thing, but being harsh for the sake of being harsh is pretty lame."
"i agree, no support, terrible idea"
"supported"
"aside of the relevancy of wanting this i'm not too sure about this being easy to implement.imagine massive blobs in a single constellation going at it. constellation chat would be moving at light speed (fofofo'ing) and the amount of players going out/coming into the chat channel would prolly melt a server.maybe ccp scotty can tell us about this some moar."
"the d-scanner needs a complete overhaul before even thinking about removing local. as it stands and with the presence of even one neutral in low sec pve-ers are in the need to constantly (read: every 5 seconds) spam the scanner in order for it to be remotely effective. removing local means spamming the scanner every 5 seconds all the time. probes + d-scanner have tilted the balance of power too far in the side of the predator. i had created a thread discussing this issue in detail before it was trolled to hell by a couple of \"respectable\" pirates that deemed it perfectly fair for their target to repeatedly spam buttons to protect themselves against the predator."
"supported. an obviously good idea.i was going to object on the basis of macro ratters instalogging even quicker, but sod it, it makes no difference because they're uncatchable anyway right now, and with constellation i could make 'em log off in a whole constellation rather than just 1 system at a time."
"unfortunately without statistics on how many mission runners feed minerals into the market vs the number of miners, the 40% number is meaningless.ex. if you have 100 mission runners to 1 miner, then i would hardly find it shocking that a significant number of resources are coming from the mission runners."
"its not that hard to extrapolate from the numbers given by looking at the daily traded volume for a single item, knowing which npc drops it and then doing a rough estimation.people can only shoot so many ships at any given time."
"i'd say that would still involve too many unverifiable assumptions to be considered valid. what if a significant portion reprocessed it themselves? ccp would know where the minerals came from, but the playerbase never could.they also stated those statistics came from one month worth of reprocessing. depending on their methodology loot saved up from the previous year and then reprocessed during that month might count toward the number. the same could also be asked about where/when the ore attributed to miners originated.relying on assumptions that are as likely to be false as they are true doesn't really prove anything.edit - bolded item for emphasis."
"i never claimed it to be the bold truth, but you can get a decent enough estimation to see a trend. when less people running missions you know in advance which minerals are going to be hit hardest and the more or less line up exactly with the chart posted.knowing where the modules come from where and in what volumes you can then match that up against events like the recent macro mass ban and more or less get a rough... and i will stress very rough... idea of how many compare vs mining.also note i didn't say who outnumbers who and by how much. i'm not even going to try and lay claim that what i have in my mind is even close to being accurate.but i will say that only a scant handful of mission runners can actually outpace a single miner by leaps and bounds in specific mineral categories."
"not supported"
"wow, messing up eve has it is now. that's a big downside. i got to go with a no on this one."
"supported. there have been enough threads asking for a mission rebalance. just do it already..."
"if that is your only meter of evaluation if something must be changed don't ever dare to protest for the \"nano nerf\" and the speed changes. or fro 90% of the changes in eve, as there are always lot of threads pro and against something. by that logic suicide ganking should, at the same time, be a bannable offense and have no sec status hit,concord should be removed and extended to 0.1 systems and so on.some rebalance done gradually (as ccp is doing), good. removing all meta 0 loot as a abrupt change as the op suggest, almost certainly very bad."
"i would be in favor of seeing a change in the raw item drops from npc ships. the concept of a bpc or design is a good one as it would bring more people into the processing loop.it would be nice once again to see mining as the main focus for mineral production. though i would rather see it focused in low-sec or 0.0. high security mining can be automated so actual players would have a tough time competing with programs."
"if there are 100 mission runners to 1 miner then that right there might just be an indication that something needs rebalancing..."
"do not want more orcas, or variants of orcas."
"didn't you read? either rig/module or adjust not a necessary a secondary or even variant version of orca. while i do detest the 3x number of rig bpo, i do see why you would hate to have another orca version. beside this dev blog is at least july 06, 2009 which is a good 6 week of development time assuming that they begin it way back then. it is often not very productive to switch development time right in the middle of the process to just trash it all and start something else. which is why i suggest adjusting only the ship maintenance bay to 600,000 m3 which is a static database entry which has the advantage of less programming overhead. but given sisi lack of any changes to orca beyond ore hangar, i would have strong reasons to be wary of the change they plan for this. why you ask? the more feature/programming something take often beget even more bugs/\"features\". no offensive meant to ccp programmers."
"this, except i want to be able to engage in some form of trade where people compete seriously on price and its not just a .01 activity battle."
"i see people 0.01-ing(well, 1-ing) in contracts all the time. and what's so bad about 0.01, anyways?"
"i hate making contracts for faction loot...+1"
"give the people the choise. let scammers keep they contracts but let the legit trades sell their stuf on the market where it belongs."
"i would like to choice to advertise on the market and contracts when selling faction items.im not sure if i want to agree though..."
"[proposal] \"warning\" upon account creation - if you wish to pvp do not repeat do not go minmatar - ive been playing this game for awhile now and have made the mistake of being minmatar our ships for pvp are \"well\" terrible compared to gallente and amarr. i have seen thread after thread trying to get this issue addressed and resolved honestly nothing has ever happened. it does however makes me ask myself do ccp, gm's, dev's, actually play eve anymore and if so i guess their not minmatar. i'm guessing if i raised this issue with them i'd be told train another race if you dont like it well i just spent 6 months training ships skills and large t2 gun specialization, will you give me that time back obviously not."
"would you like some cheese to go with your whine? there are plenty of minmatar pvp'ers around. if you wanted something easy, go play a different game."
"i lol'dseriously... don't drink and post."
"umm.minmatar ships are awesome for pvp.(you are tremendously stupid)"
"confirming that the rifter and the rupture and the hurricane are terrible"
"where have you been? we worked that out ages ago and the only way pilots of these ships get kills is because people don't pay attention due to laughing too much.anyhow, minmatar ships are mostly fine, except for the battleships. at least, in my view."
"agreed. at least they didn't stick 'destroy probes' there. i saw another suggestion somewhere about leaving that button on the left but right aligning all the others."
"anyone ever thoought of the reason why rr i not used on anything smaller battleships in most cases ( ofcource it is used rairly, but that is nothing compaired to frequency it appears on bs fleet, for a fleeet of more then 3 bs rr is almost mandatory no matter what it is doing)reason being: imbalance of fitting requirments. it is just insane. small remote repper need 15 power grid. that is more then is needed for any small weapon. most small guns require 9-12 powergrid (the largest caliber). the powergrid demand is 3(!) times larger then that of a small armor repper!medium rr need about 160 powergrid, that is about same as the fitting reqirment for ion blasters, that's much better, but still alot. about same demand for powergrid as that of medium repper. large rr needs 600 powergrid, 2-7 (!) times less then any large weapon in existance. it needs 4 times less powergrid then large armor repper. in my opinion the situation above does not make sence. solutions: make all reppers need about the same amout of powergrid. up to developers to decide what it sould be."
"while i do agree that it does seem imbalanced based on your numbers, having them all use the same amount of power is definately not the answer. that will either make them unfittable on frigates, or make them so easy to fit on cruisers and larger ships, that everyone will have one as a matter of course (potentially).not supported."
"good intention (i think)very bad idea.not supported."
"i support anything that helps improve corporate roles."
"hi fellow pilots, since mitnal quit/got booted/murder/kidnaping the eve o forum are getting worse every day. we need mitnal back. get mitnal, strap him on his chair with lots of duck tape and beer. get to work csm people. o/"
"dig it dawg, hard to beleivebut dawg in iceland is made evea dawg pay him membership feebut a dawg dont get representation, seeso dig it dawg re-re is oldan hard to choose what dawg can join sois this a reason re-re cant postin pgod, whats seen most?recyclien and recovery an tax law, tooall policy re-re wants to dobut a dawg need 10 be get it outbut a dawg wit 3 got all da cloutof 1000 dawgs who want to shouta dawg say it not right to impeachda freedom for small posse to a freedom of speachnot sayin let hate or bad dawgs go,but dont shut a posse down for bein too small.a dawg basically jus say:let small posse reprezant today!"
"oh lawdy...not supported. i'm in favour of the man keeping yo slave ass in check."
"speak english or gtfo and go back to whatever black hole you came from."
"not supported, just make sure you have logistics to add fuel in the bay / fly in a ship with a cargo bay."
"then if you can't be bothered to keep your jump bridges fueled, maybe you shouldn't get to use them for every single jump you make."
"this and not supported."
"that's the thing that bothers me the most about the current ui. i can hardly see anything under them.out of curiosity, what is that supposed to be in relation to anyway? the system's mid-point?"
"supported, but the topic is misleading. change it to:[proposal] make the probing interface usable"
"i spend quite a lot of time in lowsec. theres nothing wrong with it."
"theres far more 0.0 space than there are competent 0.0 alliances"
"+1 support"
"support"
"i would support a modable gui where you can move the buttons and rearrange menus and stuff, but nothing that would allow any sort of \"macros\" or \"bots\". if an action requires a keystroke or mouse-click in the normal client, it should require player input in the modded client as well. i don't want to see people writing their own clients that do stuff like micro-manage drones for them, or clients that monitor local and the ship-scanner to either warn the player or take defensive action automaticly. i also don't want to see custom clients that mine, run missions, or jita-trade automaticly for an afk player. or how about a networking client that allows a single player to control an entire fleet. obviously there needs to be limits here."
"ui mods killed wow as much as blizz ever did.not supported, you have the same exact tools available to you as every other player in this game, deal with it."
"maybe for non-specific ships yes, but for those ships who are created to operate \"behing enemy lines\" ( such as black ops, recons, covert ops and stealth bombers ) i don't think it should work. these could have a special hull to absorb the waves of your scanning device to render them unscannable whilst their cloack is activated. for other ships, sure why not?"
"because those other ships are already incurring massive penalties from the cloak. it's already balanced."
"it already happens on killboards, i don't understand why this shouldn't be implemented in-game.i give it a week to actually happen if the devs were to take a look at this.we already have that awesome new ability to link/save fits, so there shouldn't be much difficulties in dynamically creating fits based on fits of destroyed ships. the info is already in the api/killboards.i mean, if the information wasn't already available without more work into researching someone's fit, i'd agree, but it's already shown in killboards.this would just be one more thing towards making ccp's stuff used more than third-party (i'm not against third-party, i'm just for first-party doing things right with readily available information)"
"once again, you're completely wrong. the csm founding documents specify that csm's purview is everything eve-related, and they can make suggestions about any feature of the game, large or small."
"bumping this aswell as my last post, since these both will add a higher level of immersion."
"low priority, but i'm pro-variety."
"so, i was just sitting doing some freight runs in my provi today when i noticed one of those space-dust particals moving on its own across my screen, looking like a shooting star...i understand we wouldn't really have shooting stars in space due to the lack of an atmosphere, but there are other kinds of animated random anomalies we could have spawned randomly in the skybox to add that tiny little bit more immersion to this game...a slowly pulsing randomized starfield gets really boring with the same skyboxes we've always had, and i feel this could make the lack of a large number of skyboxes more tolerable just because you'd see, possibly, spawned client-side, a comet in the skybox, or another nebula, etc.sure, making it client-side wouldn't be realistic, but it'd fit the need-for-speed idea, aswell as make people whine less about the current state of the very few skyboxes we have to look at in these thousands of systems. (woo, w-space added more skyboxes..... so what?)"
"*blank post placeholder for idea list*"
"i like those little glowing things. they should be more common."
"boring skyboxes are boring, not all space is the same silly nebula. >_>"
"if the artwork is so hard.why not use artwork that is already in game.?if you go into a mission and see a pos, all the buildings are attached to the pos.pos code is fubar atm, we all know it.if we could dock with our corp hangers we could use station enviroment and code.already in game and proven to work."
"you will find the minutes of this meeting on the evelopedia together with a raw log."
"the gm competence discussion made only reinforced my feelings about it.dear csm team,your online meetings logs are public. they are a part of the overall picture of the issues raised to ccp. talking **** about the gm team yet going \"oh, we probably don't want to sound like *****es. so lets just word it nicer to them\" is a destructive cycle and has no place.it's the same as talking behind peoples' backs. it just sucks majorly.i'm afraid that the csm really doesn't care about how they appear to ccp when they arrive in iceland. at least have a bit of perspective. it bothers me that nobody even remotely challenged the assumptions made. dierdra was the only one who came close, and i respect him for that. however the discussion clearly needed someone playing devil's advocate. anybody who was on csm1 or csm2 could have done that."
"for some reason i'm not listed as being absent (with apologies) and i agree lv"
"/signed"
"signed"
"it seems that some people ended up with broken hardware because of these sound issues and even after months there is not a single word from ccp about this.i'd be pretty upset when my hardware would break because of some terribad implemented soundengine."
"yeah tone down the visuals, make sure the centre of the effect is inside the hull of each ship, and do something about that awful noise.. it's like an ultrasound of a ccp employee's wife or something."
"current one is completely crap and overdone, old one had it's issues as well but at least it was bearable."
"found on page 2"
"/supportmore security breakage is likely from reinventing the wheel than using what has been designed over decades."
"ffs ccp, take notice."
"got a copy/paste warning for a gm regarding hopping from alliances multiple times simply to avoid a war dec. problem is, in addition to not having a war dec to dodge right now, that it would be easily dispelled by the quickest of checks on alliance history which obv the gm didnt want to spend the time to check.petitioned but no reponse for nearly 24 so i add this to the pile of complaints and want to warn people that if this isnt a mistake, those supporting this initiative vocally (as we've done on our podcast) might be targeted for harassment."
"i'd like to ask a basic question: if you are paying monthly for a subscription to service 'x', do you think you should be getting competent support for use of that service? ccp is in business (ie, making money by providing a service) and should be providing it's customers with some level of support. the fact that it's an \"internet spaceship game\" is irrelevent.i'm paying $15 per month for each of four accounts: that's $60 (us) per month, or $720 us per year to ccp for the use of their service. \"it's just an internet spaceship game\" is unacceptable to me: i'm paying good money to use this service, and i expect a competent level of support.how much have you given ccp over the life of your account(s), and do you think the level of support you've received is adequate?"
"the wiki is infested by spambots and the like."
"the idea of colonies is a good one, but this implementation is not going to add much for the average player or bring more people out to 0.0 space. the first problem with this idea as it is now is that only alliances can put up these colonies after they gain constellation sovereignty. the reason this fact is not good is because it makes the content inaccessible to anyone who is not top brass is a larger alliance. secondly, if the only ships capable of attacking a colony are capital ships, then there really wont be much difference between a pos and a colony. they really would just become an extension of the other without adding anything truly different to the game. after reading the csms meeting minutes on the subject it looks like ccp is looking to revamp the way sovereignty works and colonies are a possibly solution. with that being said, colonies should not become the next step after sovereignty for an alliance, but an alternative to gaining sovereignty. if colonies are meant to bring more players to 0.0 then they should be accessible to the individual or at least to smaller groups of individuals. players that arent out in 0.0 having fun with poss right now arent going to jump in with colonies if colonies function on the same level. what i think eve needs is more content that must be managed by smaller groups that will benefit the alliance. as i said before, i like the idea of colonies, but lets not make this another version of the pos. lets get some 0.0 content that more individuals can enjoy."
"no it doesn't. the directional scanner works perfectly fine, even in w-space. swapping the mode types between constellation and local will allow defensive players to be even more aware of their surroundings at a longer range than before, while limiting the precision of the intel.your thread was just a whiny rant. don't bring that same crap into this thread."
"constellation chat isn't regional. it won't be *that* large of a change. as for having to deal with spam, simply turn off blink and minimize the window if you don't want to read it. nobody is forcing you."
"relax. i was just sharing my opinion on a public forum.by the way, the irony of you, bellum eternus, accusing others of posting whiny rants is simply priceless."
"yes, it would. but, do you improve mining, or nerf mission running. do you work with real numbers or speculation.somebody further up cautioned against making decisions based on unverifiable assumption."
"maybe cause the skills needed for mission running also translate to pvp? and that mission running has more variety than mining?"
"as someone who just started lvl 4 missions on an alt, i do not support this because i use the loot to melt down into cruise missiles which in turn i use to destroy things."
"just put a falloff on all tractor beams... far from us, slowest."
"i have a better idea. how about ccp but just puts all the salvage and loot in our hangars for us so we don't need to salvage. great idea huh?"
"you know, theres this ship, yes a ship, that gets a bonus to tractor beam range and velocity. its allowed in high sec, its called an orca, use its 70km tractor at 1000m/s and get a dessy alt with salvagers to salvage or use a marauderedit: using an orca you can loot and then get your dessy alt to put the salvage in your corp hangar, there you go, no need for stuff to make missioning even easier"
"imo 0.01-ing is done mostly to annoy ppl. it's not so much market pvp, as it is legal market pvp greifing. before anyone flames that, i know some people see it different, but everyone is entitled to an opinion."
"it's easier to just look on contracts for the item you're looking for. rather than traveling through empire hoping to find it"
"isn't the rupture the one that looks like a nail gun?"
"confirming that you are a total noob."
"you might have missed the very obvious joke.the op is trolling\stupid. i can acutly fly mini/amarr/gallente fully t2 and i miss the point. it is kind of funny in the gallente part, since i got around 50 m sp only focused to this, maxed out all the skills and still getting subpar results."
"ehhh sorry if i did.i just kneejerked... been a rough week : o /but i can attest to the fact that the rupture and the cane are beuat's of a ship.lots and lots of fun."
"rifter, jaguar, rupture, rapier, cane, phoon. yes these are all terrible, terrible ships for pvp. there are ofcourse different kinds of pvp and some races fare better in some types of pvp while being worse in others. but overall stating that 'minmatar sucks for pvp' is either a drunk post, attempt at trolling or enters the op for the \"i have no clue so i'm going to blame something else but me\" award.not supported, obviously."
"can someone tell me why i see so many rifters rock in pvp and you claim they suck?maybe you are doing something wrong?same goes for phoon, rupture and cane."
"it's because nobody takes this thread seriously."
"the whole keylogger posting is getting annoying and while i appreciate the effort the ccp folks do (devs who act as forum mod in their spare time) it's obviously not enough and isn't a 24 hour coverage. apart from all the passive/defensive options like increasing security and changing the rules to posting we simply need more moderators.given the fact that ccp kicked out all actual moderators in favour of the \"devs have enough time where they're twiddling their thumbs, lets add it to their workload\" idea (which i don't support) asking outright for more moderators isn't going to work. so if ccp doesn't have the manpower (or is unwilling to hire them) that can only mean it's up to us, the playerbase.giving (light) mod powers to 'random' people in the community is ofcourse asking for trouble, even though we could probably come up with a list of trusted persons who should be capable of not abusing their powers. but i think i have a better idea; give csm members some mod powers, they already have their own members group (csm rep) so adding options to that would be easy. they could still abuse their powers ofcourse but at least they would be held accountable somewhat as their rl identity is known (due to the whole identification thing) and they have something to lose in the form of their csm membership. any moderation to non-keylogger threads would result in a beating.light mod powers would include;- able to empty a post- able to give out a temporary (48 hour?) ban to give ccp time to reactthis way they can remove the keylogger crap and prevent that poster from spamming for a good while, giving ccp the time they need to close the account. lets hear your thoughts."
"if the csms are getting mod powers, it should be for two forums(ah, jpsc), and it should be for the purposes of allowing better management of topics, mostly in the form of modding links and status updates into ops. and even then, it should probably just be the secretary, and maybe the vice-secreary and/or chair. making them all demimods on the whole forum to address the keylogger thing doesn't seem to be a great idea - it's not something that they'd be suited to, given that most of them aren't huge forum *****s, and given that csms seem to get forum bans themselves a lot of the time."
"sup...ccp are doing a good job of clearing the spam at the moment... a lot of it is cleaned up pretty quick.not supported."
"give csm members temporary 'light' mod powers?good god no! we'll see abuse crop up almost immediately./thumbsdown(hey, where's out thumbsdown option that was proposed months ago)"
"this"
"again?"
"and because forum bans as a whole are such an effective method of keeping people out. i mean obviously."
"supportage all way"
"this is one of many ui improvements that need to be done."
"supported. imo they need to move all the buttons away from each other so it's less likely that you'll mis-click."
"i agree with the op"
"supported."
"the directional scanner has a maximum range of around 14 au. this is easily achieved by typing a lot of 9s in the range field, since it is measured in km. a common tactic to pinpoint objects with the directional scanner is to first narrow down the angle and then decrease the range successively, this by subtracting a lot of km(1 au ~= 150,000,000km).i propose that range on the scanner should be determined by a slider, graded if you like. or at least be able to toggle input between km and au. i don't mind scanning being complicated, but entering values up to 14 au in km is bad ui."
"i'd rather just have the range input box be in au, tbh."
"not supported. i would rather have an input box for the angle"
"yes, range in au would be nice..."
"why not have both? a slider and a manual range entry?"
"though switching the scanner input to au from km could be a more productive thread"
"yes please, slider and input box for both options"
"support"
"this."
"not supported.tbqh, the main reason you don't see small ships using rr is because it's a pain in the arse to stay in range of eachother when you're mwding around- it's very possible to fit rr on non bs class ships, but it requires a much greater degree of organization and teamwork to make it effective."
"ok, while writing this topick i made an assumtion. i assumed it would bee obvious that i don't whant to make all rr's require 600 powergrid, including frigate ones. i whant rr's to be equally easy to fit on all ship classes. there fitting requirments need adjustment. currently fitting them on bs costs nothing, fitting them on cruiser is hard, and fitting them on frigates is nearly impossible. that needs fixing. now i would like to know how exactly that is a bad idea."
"supportetdit would bring more versatility and frigs wouldnt be instapoped by warrior t2 drones in seconds or by destroyers."
"you might want to change the title to: \"remote repairers for different ship classes\". when i read the title i thought it was about giving different yields depending on which ship class you targeted."
"i plan to ask ccp to increase the limit on courier contracts. this should allow rigged ships to be courier'd in freighters. i'm not sure if increasing the sma on an orca is the best way to solve the 'rigged ships transport' issue, as an increase in the ships abilities may lead to other problems/imbalances."
"not supported.the orca is not the solution to rigged battleship transport. it is an industrial command ship and not a carrier. i was kind of confused, considering the mining requirements, as to why its ship maintenance bay was not limited to industrial ships as the rorqual.if there is going to be high-sec transport of rigged ships it should be utilizing the current freighters or a new type of ship specifically designed to haul other ships."
"i just dont see the point in doing this why would u want to fit just one bs in the ship array surly u could just fly the ship if your just moving one ok ok u might not have the skills for that ship but i see this as very limited use. even if they increased the couriour contract size to allow u to fit bs into freighters whats the point u can only fit 1 and a few other small ships again its too limited use. personally i`d very much like to see a teir 2 freighter with say 10 ships slots and a small corp hanger ships slots not limited to size. much more useful"
"you know what they should completely do this. o and dont complain when an orca drops a smartbombing bs next to your hulk and you wake up in a station."
"was already asked and told that it will be added to the docket, just no timeline on when.although i do support you pressing the matter more... vehemently."
"hopefully they have one of their teams working on corp management."
"anything that lets us get more granular with roles and security for corporation management is a thumbs up from me"
"precisely. this proposal is a small step in the right direction."
"totally not something that csm can get done, but i sure as hell agree with the sentiment.+1"
"forum moderation is much needed!"
"mitnal will be missed, but this is not an issue for the csm. locking for discussion about moderation."
"look its a poster child for the forced sterilization of the mentally disadvantaged. go win a darwin award.. please."
"thread locked. spam."
"theoretically, couldn't an alliance keep a pos full of spare ships at both ends of a bridge and jump an entire \"fleet\" of pods for free if this happened?jump > board ship > ta da!"
"i bought my battlecruiser for roughly 34 million isk. i insured it for roughly 11 million isk. let's say that all in all, it cost me 46 million. here's the catch; now my battlecruiser is insured for about 38 million isk which means i'll loose out about 8 million because of insurance. okay, that's better than with no insurance but to top it all of; my equipment is not insured!surely, should there not also be insurance for modules? yeah sure; some of your modules survive destruction, but if you don't have a ship with a proper cargohold nearby, you can kiss that stuff goodbye!the costs for fitting a battlecruiser (or even a cruiser) usually exceed the costs of a simple frigate, by a large margin! so should we not be able to insure such precious items?"
"i'm not sure if this is parody or just missing the point. insurance exists to let players survive losing ships, not to make losses irrelevant."
"it's not a parody.you can insure your home, you can insure what's in your home. so why can't i insure what's in my ship?"
"and what would you base that insurance value on? the price it is sellable for at the time of insuring? how about current market price? which market should the scc use? what if you lose the ship in lowsec/0.0, you put the ship in a risky place?the insurance debate is not a simple one, using any of the above as a way of figuring out the insurance value is exploitable. if you check the market discussion forums you'll see a few discussions about player implemented insurance scheme's covering most of this."
"what other chatroom to communicate dissatisfaction then? i think the gm team is tough skinned enough by now to handle the fact that some number of csm members aren't happy with the situation.the proposal could be better worded though, because it really should be above the level of common conversation and chat room rage. but i do think it's an issue that needs to be talked about in iceland, and i expect everyone will be perfectly civil speaking about it in real life, at least."
"signed"
"do want."
"rockets fell of the table pick em up"
"please fix rockets!"
"bump....if i can get functional requirements like \"we need some buttons on the side of the screen that move the mouse-wheel for suck-puff mouse users who have been nerfed by the removal of zoom buttons\".... then i'll be happy to donate time to coding lil hid utils like this.... i'm not the personality type to take on the evangelist and organisational stuff, would be nice if someone came along who could take this idea to the next level and start running with it. far as the csm is concerned, this one isn't just a proposal to be brought up at one meeting then \"we've already discussed that\". instead this is an issue that can be taken on-board and developed by the csm or by the community or by ccp. just someone has to do something.it'd be nice if the csm would re-touch this one at every meeting, examining progress and seeing how things can be better organised to provide a conduit for this specific segment of the eve community."
"supported."
"supported.and not to be materialistic weasel in the group but...it can't hurt ccp's rep any to be able to market themselves as \"the mmo that cares\" or something."
"as it stands i simply pod jump from one side of the universe to another. i'd rather be able to clone jump now and then so i can keep multiple implant sets about."
"yes"
"the new one is bad i like the old rings tbh"
"signed!gief old effect please... so much better."
"yes, please. along with the eccm effect. and please remove all sound effects from modules that affect ship-stats. can<U+FFFD>t think of one that isn<U+FFFD>t annoying."
"the old effect was far far better. or nothing would be ok too."
"this was on the wrong page."
"this. i already did that with an alt for the fun. works out nicely.dont be so lazy folks. you want the tower gone, shoot it.a thread like this started by a member of a pvp corp? *sobs*"
"ccp: it's called -quality assurance-. look into it.also, why don't you publically release your internal performance index for the customer service dept.?oh wait. that wouldn't make a difference since you guys aren't taking customer satisfaction into account with that index, is it?because, honestly, if you guys took customer appreciation into account with that index you'd prolly have to fire 3/4 of the dept."
"a c&p \"we are looking into the issue\" response would be very nice for non-instant things. would make me a lot happier at least."
"i support this as a minmatar player."
"yes, please."
"be care careful what you wish for, you might get it.that means: -with size comes fitting requirement. coul you fit another 2000 powergrid/50 cpu module on your ratting/mission-ship? i normally couldn<U+FFFD>t, and i don<U+FFFD>t want my dedicated salvager be a bs.-i don<U+FFFD>t see how a small module could keep the 20km range. they would be more like 10/20/40 since bonused they still double the range. they won<U+FFFD>t let you to be able to pull wrecks from sniperrange.-marauders and t3 ships already got 40km range which means you can pull things in 80km diameter, which is sufficient most of the time and when it doesn<U+FFFD>t, it requires not much movement to get in range.so small tractors are fine, decent range for almost no fitting requirement.not supported"
"now stop and think very carefully about what you said there. you said there's no need to make changes to looting and salvaging because people should just get an orca for tractoring. think carefully about that statement. finished thinking? good. do you feel like you said something really stupid yet? yes, i thought you would."
"/signed"
"i dont feel stupid, we dont need bigger salvagers when we have 3 non cap ships with tractor beam bonuses, use them or continue using a dessy, an orca just helps since it can pull 3 wrecks at a time from 70km + while a dessy alt with 8 salvagers salvages as they come, then all loot and salvage goes into the orca to be brought to a station to sell or w/e"
"so you are claiming that the 50 or so people i heard from is wrong? they claim the best usage for orca they claim is tractor in wreck then use another boat to salvage much quicker especially if they blitz. most setup from what i heard consider of 3 alts: one running the mission and one alt for getting mission and one in orca for salvaging clean up after the mission runner leave the area."
"no supporting this: use ships with bonus (marauders, orca, rorqual, etc.)"
"given that we will discuss with ccp a change to wreck ownership, and seeing how much discussion we had about that during the csm assembly, i would pick this up as a suggestion for a re-balance of the suggested ownership change."
"if you get this flagging than you can get the tractor beam proposal, they must be connected."
"tractor wreck get flagged, all for it"
"certain maladjusted people in this community petition everything the subjects of their ire say a stalk them on the forums, it can rack up rather a lot of bans.also, giving the csm mod powers is a terrible idea. no offense intended but i wouldn't trust any of you to be impartial."
"oh god no! do you actually realise what you're suggesting?"
"just give somebody the ability to unstick and stick threads in jita speakers forum. nobody needs more mod powers then that. having an old meeting thread stickied after weeks is dumb."
"for about 3 months i have a fundamental problem and dont have a clue where it originates.i have 7 payed accounts, some with timecards. my mains are creditcard ones. around these i center my gameplay in eve (long term plan).lately one main account is upgraded to 12 months and another is upgraded for shorter term. all done by creditcard.however, for the last three months my cards gets not accepted. twice in a row now and at random.i am forced to fill the gap with (more expensive) timecards.i cant face my creditcard company with the story that my card gets both accepted and not accepted by ccp, especially at random. this they will notice too, as i do myself now.questions:1. according to your knowledge and that within the community: are more players facing this problem?2. based upon ccp's financial records: how often does it happen that credit cards owned by multiple-account players gets accepted at random?3. based on a not so strange assumption: if this happens more often, are players \"forced\" into buying more expensive time cards? we know time card selling can be a profitable business. i did petion my creditcard request earlier. got the answer all should be fine now. however, the problem resurfaced again today. i just repetitioned it with the character i use for this issue. but, please dont throw the petition route back into my face. my request to you stays.please, no wise crack remarks on my financial situation. that is more than average. my creditcard gets accepted elsewhere and on occasion even by ccp. also, i play this game 2 years in a row with pleasure (hence the 7 accounts) and will visit the fanfest a second time in a row. what more can you expect from an eve player?sincerely,andre ukoppie"
"contact your credit card company and ask them why it's being declined when ccp tries to authorize it. they should be able to look up the attempted transaction and tell you exactly why they declined to accept it. if they can't, change credit card companies."
"it's all you buddy.... not ccp.oh and here's our complimentary tin-foil hat.contact your cc company and tell them to figure out wth is up.i've never had a problem... and i rarely hear about them as well."
"mmos are the subject of a lot of credit card fraud, so the credit card companies get paranoid about them. i've mine freeze my account twice over eve. the second time i had to call to get it unfrozen i got through to a human and had her put a note on my account that it was a verified and recurring charge. no trouble since."
"if u r from former yugoslavia then welcome to the club. similar problem have dozens of my corpmates while i must say, we dont have any problems paying with creditcards anywhere else whatever is it online or traveling abroad. it is still unknown mystery why your cc will be accepted or not from account to account despite all account details are the same.i know that there are gms focusing on this problem, and petitions are in most cases being solved in day or two so try your luck there. there is nothing wrong with your cc."
"i will keep this simple. the stasis webifier tech ii has very little advantage over the tech i variant. they both have the same optimal range but the tech ii version has a slighter bonus with -60 velocity over -50 velocity. they also both have the same overload at 30% optimal range bonuses.my proposal here is to increase the optimal range overload bonus on the tech ii stasis webifier from 30% to 40%. then leaving the tech i module the same at 30%.you need energy management v before you can overload modules. that's a level 4 skill that's not easy to train for combat pilots."
"except almost every combat pilot trains that as soon as they can.not supported, it's fine how it is."
"to level 5? i don't know if you're a combat pilot then. there is much more needed skills like gunnery, ballistics, electronic warfare, ship command, target locking speeds and so on before i would actually train that to 5. it's good to have up but it's very heavy for combat focus pilots that don't have their bonuses to int/mem."
"unfortunately, yes. the benefits it gives greatly outweighs the training time. your dps goes up, tank goes up, range and some strength on ewar goes up. all for just 25 days of training or so. most good combat pilots i know have trained it"
"supported.its pretty obvious its not meant to work this way."
"tl;drtheres faction drones on sisi atm, i can quite clearly remember seeing gallente navy garde, ogre, hammerhead, and hobgoblin. i assume its the same for th restedit: theyre t1 drones with double hp and a bit faster i think"
"double hp, faster tracking and 10% less damage. only weapon where the faction version get drawbacks."
"i<U+FFFD>m not sure about more dedicated drone-ships, because exsisting ones are ok.but i agree with the point about drone-modules/rigs/imps. there should be more, especially damage enhancers and their t2 counterparts.furthermore i would love to see a rework of the drone-ui. the current window is not very comfortable to work with. i want proper buttons, stats all integrated into the hud where it belongs."
"yes please, some love for drones.start with the interface and make dronedamage visible in bay..and some hotbuttons.easy work"
"yes!"
"double whammy support bump combo"
"sure. this would certainly help in fleets."
"as long as it can be on some channels and not others, ie on fleet but not local."
"oh god this"
"it's got to be both. i often use my directional scanner with values that are far outside the range of an au."
"keep the text input box, add a slider with tick marks @ .1au, .25au, .5au, .75au, 1au, 2au, 5au, 10au, and max range. also please add a non-editable field above or below the input field that shows the range that the scanner is currently set to in au."
"with the rash of keylogging dumbasses pervading our forums, i would like for the csm to seriously discuss the idea of turning off autolinks on the forums for any site that doesn't begin www.eveonline.com.i've reported at least a half a dozen of these stupid threads today, and it's frankly annoying. i have, in the past, argued that we are all responsible for our own net security, and i still believe that 100%. however, it is obvious to me that there is a significant portion of the population that needs extra help, so what i propose is the following.any link that does not return back to the official eve online website will not be displayed as an automatically clickable link. meaning that, the url will be displayed, but if you want to visit it you have to copy the link into your browser address bar and press enter.it's inconvenient, yes, for those sites that are legitimate, but i think we can capitalize on the natural human tendency to avoid work where possible and make the keyloggers lives as miserable as possible."
"i also realize this won't cure the problem. i'm simply trying to offer up suggestions to assist our newer players until ccp comes up with something more long term.i'll admit, the eve comic one almost got me, until i realized that the \"issue\" numbers didn't match."
"1.0"
"the idea isn't a terrible one, but the csm process is far too slow for it. post it on eve general, i'd say."
"this all goes back to my idea of denying people the ability to post... but that didn't go over so well.i have to agree with hersch... this idea is better served going straight to the top.but i suspect ccp won't do much either.the spamming is pandemic... and they are hardly doing much about it.oh sure they clean it up... but i'm glad they want to spend extra work time to clean up useless crap."
"that's unfair. don't you think that they would prevent it preemptively if they could? nobody can block spam especially well - if microsoft, google, and yahoo combined can't come up with a way to keep my inboxes spam-free, i'm not going to expect ccp to do better."
"do these still exist ??and can you find them with probes?"
"yes and yes."
"still not supported. this is a bad idea because it's perfectly possible to fit rr on frigs/cruisers- yes, proportionally it takes more grid, but it's not significant enough to matter. if you need some help fitting your ships, there's a whole forum dedicated to it :)"
"erm rigged ships transport are not even going to be useful beyond transport rigged ships but my way would reduce art department work and keep the change to an absolutely minimum. which let devs have more time spent somewhere else instead of doing works that only a minority of eve online player might use or not. why you think there only has been 5 pirate faction set of ships? also some of the pirate ships are copied hull with different color. (look at bhaalgorn/armageddon to start with)also if i remember right the courier contract limit was imposted following the doll within a doll within a doll in carrier. feel free to correct me if i am wrong.increase to orca sma size that is slow than a battleship (both align time and warp speed)? where would that introduce problem/imbalances? my experience whenever introducing a new ship alway face problems. look at naglfar when it had dual bonus (missile/turret) and when vexor could deploy 15 drones and black op useless pre-nerf stat. this is why i am very against a new ship unless it is going to face lot of testing. even the fairly new tech 3 strategic cruiser still have some bugs.please feel free to critic my ideas but you haven't offer any real hard facts beyond what you feel."
"didn't you read? 600,000m3 is a far cry from a ship that can jump, use fighter, remote repair, and do dozens other things that an orca can't do. a carrier sma is at 1,000,000 m3, go look for yourself if you don't pilot one. one of the reason why i am saying something now is because they are already modifying orca to have extra 50,000 m3 of ore bay. (similar to fuel bay only for ore) if you are going to use the freighter it will force ccp to spend dev time creating either module/rig which has effect *creating sma or even other effect/things* that will take longer time than a simple adjust to orca's sma. dev have said that art content take the longest time to create entirely from scratch repeatably. orca is intend as a highsec ship courier to bridge the gap between a freighter and an industrial. even the rorqual can ferry so much much much more than a carrier. (at cost of offensive capabilities but can't enter highsec)"
"refer to my comment on art contents and dev times."
"exactly how are you going to enter the battleship oh wait that right it might be fun to give up 450 million isk because the said hulk pilot had a friendlies in the belt."
"how about basing it on the mineral value of the items in question? eve already has something like this integrated into contracts. would be a simple thing to adapt code that already works well to provide that output to a new area."
"the current contract system uses the item's baseprice value which is an arbitrary number decided by ccp when they add the ship/mod to the database, and the numbers used are the original npc baseprice of minerals. the current insurance system is already using that value for ships, adding it in for modules would do very little since every variation of that module (the meta value) is identical (or very close to). a t1 gun is then worth the same amount as an officer/commander/faction/whatever gun for insurance purposes."
"the idea of a man walking into an insurance broker's office and trying to purchase cover for a ship of war sounds like the setup for a monty python sketch..."
"i wasn't able to be an alt in this meeting although i had planned to be. the morning of the meeting my cat had a medical emergency that eventually resulted in her being put to sleep.i do however agree totally with lv.issler"
"i'm so sorry to hear about this issler."
"kuan got it in one, i support this motion simply because privateers rage so much about it and have become its biggest user in eve."
"uh.. you should prob talk to your corpmates about this as well there, the pitboss. i like fighting against you dudes last time we got decced, but i was in the 'dix (aka dodixie) today and ur member mirrabela was getting rr'ed exploiting the same mechanic u are complaining about. and i might be going out on a limb here, but i guess it was an alt cuz the toon's name was mirrabella (note the epix dif'rence in namez lolz) who was chillin' in a guardian during the entire engagement. just don't want you to look like a hypocrite, that's all. get back to me on it if you want."
"your tears are delicious ... thank-you.uh ... i might be going out on a limb but i would guess you haven't read any of the thread and just blind post as for being a hypocrite ... i've never used the tactic and haven't called for an end to remote repping ... suggestion: wipe the tears from your eyes ... and actually read the original post ... get back to me on it then .. if you want ... i will have a box of kleenex if need be."
"i still think that using remote repair should cause a 60 second aggression timer, and if done in a way that flags you to someone who is otherwise neutral, should result in 30 days of kill-rights to the people you acted against."
"pit- rather than insult people who bring up valid points, why don't you actually consider responding to them with a legitimate argument. for someone who's calling for a nerf to neutral rr, it would seem that the logical first step might be to purge your alliance of it, no?i'll be impressed if when you quote me, you actually include what i've said, rather than editing out valid ideas to make yourself look cooler."
"if you'd stop trolling the thread and actually read it ... you will find my stance throughout the whole thing ... as for purging my alliance of it ... well, if it can be used against us ... and is a valid tactic (for now) ... why should i even attempt to purge it ... would it make ccp act any different towards the issue? ... you don't have to be a genius to come to the conclusion: noas for insulting people ... i only take shots back when they shoot firstas for looking cooler ... reality check ... its an internet space ship game."
"but really- what do mudkipz have to do with remote rep? :dwell now that you're actually responding to arguments, i have a couple of questions which i don't think have been answered- though it's quite possible that they've been lost in the walls of text-1) i don't believe it was ever specified by you whether this will be a change to neutral remote rep, or all remote rep- in other words, if i rr a corp mate, alliance mate, blue? do i get this same countdown? if so, you may want to change the title and fp as they're slightly misleading.2) how can you justify a labeling a defensive action as an aggressive one? this would be the equivalent of saying that local reps should give an aggro timer as well. as far as involving yourself in the fight, sure- but if i'm fighting you, and a friend of mine rrs me as i do so, once i deagress, why should it take longer for him to dock up than me? a change that i could respect would be that as long as your rring someone who's shooting/aggressing, you'd get the countdown- but when they stop, you get the same 1 minute countdown that they do starting then.3) why the hostility? as you said- it's an internets spaceship game- be happy :)edit: for those wondering why i misquoted pb, check his an my last 2 posts and you'll understand :)"
"honestly i'm done being trolled by you so wont be responding anymore to you or your alts ...talking to you is like talking to a wall ... you just don't get it because you're too lazy to read the entire thread and get the answer for yourself because all this has been brought up and discussed already ...just know this ... the csm have already voted unanimously to bring this issue to ccp ... unanimously ... showing their support and acknowledgement that this is an issue that needs to be looked into ... your displeasure for the change has been noted ... especially since its a major part of your gamingenjoy the nerf in the future see you in the next thread i create"
"pit- i've read the thread- hell, i think i've posted more in it than you have. i'm not even saying that your ideas are wrong- i'm saying that i'd like clarification on them. please stop avoiding legitimate questions:1) i don't believe it was ever specified by you whether this will be a change to neutral remote rep, or all remote rep- in other words, if i rr a corp mate, alliance mate, blue? do i get this same countdown? if so, you may want to change the title and fp as they're slightly misleading.2) how can you justify a labeling a defensive action as an aggressive one? this would be the equivalent of saying that local reps should give an aggro timer as well. as far as involving yourself in the fight, sure- but if i'm fighting you, and a friend of mine rrs me as i do so, once i deagress, why should it take longer for him to dock up than me? a change that i could respect would be that as long as your rring someone who's shooting/aggressing, you'd get the countdown- but when they stop, you get the same 1 minute countdown that they do starting then.----either answer those, or link me to the post here where you have."
"think what's really needed is a person with the mind-set and some understanding of the hid market who can activitly seek out accessability issues that the csm or ccp would otherwise likely not hear about. as you can imagine for some just typing out a long sentence could be a chore, for people in that situation a liason is needed who can take their issues further. if the issues can be identified then between ccp and the coders that play eve i'm sure solutions can be found to make eve a joy to use with limited hids. an area of responsibility being defined in the csm could likely be a nice start."
"instantly supported. beautiful idea. o7"
"maybe a little change, not so drastic?keep timer to 24 hours as it is now, to any destinationallow jump within same region after 12-18 hours lets say"
"i support this thread, however it must not be a skill as this will then again become a mandatory for every alliance. a 18 hour delay is fine.also i noticed that there are a lot of flawed arguments against this proposal1. it will make alliance way to easy to move from one space to anotherthis is false, have you ever thought about the fact that you need to jump ships, equipment, posses, ammo and what not to your next location. this is going to have to be done by capital ship as the last time i checked jump clones didn't take your stuff along with you. also titans are a way better method to get your army across space (be it at a shorter range). yes more players will now be able to participate because they had some business elsewhere but that is not a bad thing.for those saying that it will aid the alliances in defending they are also wrong as it doesn't matter if it's a 18 or 24 hour delay that pos won't be coming out of reinforced in that time, the jump clone issue is not the problem here but the sovereignty issue is which is going to be fixed.2. space will become smallerno it will not as i stated in my last argument your stuff is not taken with you along the ride. so what would be better getting your character without anything but a rookie ship at a new location or getting your toon and your stuff by flying/jumping to the new location and not being restricted by a timer delay. i know which one i would pick. the space in eve is already huge and travelling is not a fun thing to do in eve as it's a repetitive act of clicking buttons."
"i personally believe that when ccp created jump clones and set it to a 24 hour cooldown, they wernt thinking, honestly if you only want people to use jump clones once a day, it has to be less than 24 hours, otherwise if you use it each day, after a week or so you will find the cooldown will happen outside your playtime and instead of waiting 24 hours, it will be almost 48. it should be 23:30 hours so as to allow the user to jump once a day without fail.[troll]for those who just say no, i cry a little inside every time i think that one day your stupid genes will be passed onto the next generation.[/troll]"
"agree"
"no"
"hell no"
"/me supportsi wonder what the stats are as far as percentage of people that are using creative sound cards on the vista os who have an issue listed on the op. i would fit in that category with my x-fi card.hopefully there's a fix soon...i had no idea i was being attacked once because the background music kept humming along and then i started hearing faint sounds of my ship being blasted."
"i support this but it's only the tip of the iceberg.there are additional settings which i'd like to be saved server-side.agreed. i have hundreds of players in my buddies list and i run eve on different operating systems and different machines. recently, my local eve user settings became corrupt due to excessive fiddling. i wiped them out and launched the eve client to rebuild everything. now, i don't have folders in my buddy list -just hundreds of names in one list. other candidates for server-side saving might include the following:*ship fittings*from the esc screen menu: general settings, layout, *theme selection**character screen: remember the last page viewed.*and etc...it's a great start, avalloc. thank you."
"lots of crap needs to be fixed with fw"
"my knowledge of pos's isn't the best, but as i recal they are corporation owned. so i would suggest something like this if the corporation that owns the tower disapears then the tower should switch to a neutral state and be free to shoot at. and if it remains unowned for a long enough period then have it automatically deleted like achorable cans, shuttles, etc... that were abandoned."
"ccp missed a real opportunity with admiral alexander noir crashing his nyx in malkalen instead of jita...."
"/totally ****ing signed"
"seriously, did we have to necro this idiotic idea?"
"oww yeaahh i wanna see some freighters pop"
"if this happened, i would buy the boxed blu-ray set and watch it on repeat everyday"
"supported :) and i'd buy it is well."
"what is the point of having a -0.77 trusec system with 9 belts, when in 2 hours of ratting, biggest spawn i get is: 2 x blood harbinger (1.25mil).20% of time i go through all belts, just to find no spawns anywhere in belts.frigs, cruisers, battlecruisers spawn 80% of time.i can't even make money ratting, i'm making money by trading in empire.and no, i can't spend 10 hours ratting in order to get more valuable spawns, then chain them. eve should not be a damn job..."
"while in principle i would agree with the ops sentiment i do however wish to point out another aspect of his proposal that will need to be addressed. that is inflation.if your going to introduce higher bounty earning potential through a mass pruning of cruiser and bad spawns from 0.0 space as well as increasing spawn rate then you also need more ways of getting that money back out of the game or you'll end up with prices skyrocketing.also if your going to improve rating of a system then there must also be an equivalent mechanic of destroying sec rating, either through a natural entropy process or player actions other wise in a few months you'll find every system has a true sec status of -1.0.finally while i see this as an improvement to 0.0 ratting as an incentive to reconsider lvl4 missions i dont see this is an improvement to mining which use to be a major benefit to holding some 0.0 space.mining as a profession has never really recovered from the introduction of the drone regions which imho was the biggest blunder of ccp to date.ideally what i would like to see would be another 0.0 predominant consumable group that would be gained in 0.0 space (plexing/mining) which would be required by the player base."
"correct that w-space operations are more profitable than even highsec mission-running. incorrect that this fact derails the essential point of the op. any activity in eve, when done with an organized group, becomes both faster and more productive. however for 0.0 organizing those operations becomes a luxury inbetween the necessary defense ops, wars, and whatnot. the fact that much of 0.0 space is lackluster in quality, and for ratting or mining each system will support only a few players at once, drives pilots apart during short play-periods.if 0.0 did not come with the burden of defending what you \"own\", then perhaps the premise of it being the \"group playground\" (which w-space *is*) could be reasonable.----to the op's ideas: kudos to a reasonably cognizant set of suggestions. supported, since they fall in line with some similar thoughts i posted before--particularly regarding the core idea of player-built items improving the profitability of a system.i feel that area, however, could and should be incorporated into a more diverse set of structures, probably in with other measures for investing in the defense and value of systems.regardless of the specifics, 0.0 needs some hard thinking by now.--krum"
"i had an idea of how to improve 0.0 without raising inflation of flooding the markets with faction gear:create new cruiser sized officer spawns that can happen in any 0.0 region. they would work very similar to current officers, but they would drop only cruiser sized modules - modules that are not currently in the loot tables of current officers and complexes. this mostly focuses on new officer medium guns/missile launchers. and also x-type cruiser sized mods that currently don't drop. we could also create new faction mods out of eccm, racial ecm, shield extenders, plates - there are actually quite a bit of modules that have no high meta variant.this would create a new type of good that does not increase supply of already existing modules and does not inject massive isk amounts into the game. it's main effect would be to shift profitability from high sec empire to 0.0 space.the spawn rates for these things would need to remain at same levels at current officer spawns, not more, not less."
"supported.the good thing about ratting as an isk earning activity is that it spreads people out providing a basis for small scale conflict."
"a good idea in general but this would increase the price from other officer mods because there is a limited time a player rat and a infinite chance on spawning officers. u should not complain delve is very very good broken.... u can get a officer spawn in every system there so delve should not get any improvements or it shoul be 'fixed\" properlylooool, im gallente and i need to 'work\" 11 hours for a fitted pvp deimos (20/220m t2 fit + rigs). its allready broken... they only need to fix it now. now the question raises how fast can i lose a deimos... i think i dont have to answere that, the nickname diemost saiz enough it became broken ever since the high increase in mission runners a year or 2 ago. mission income raised 0.0 rat income said the same. now u tell me where that inflation came from? carebears dont spend isk , well maybe they do but they dont brake it, no lose no isk sink. 0.0 ratters buy ships and blow them up, how much is insurance these days on a t2 hac? 7 mil?"
"i am not ratting in delve, you mongoloid. i am ratting in querious.god damn, so many dumb people around..."
"just want to point out that the \"t2 fighters\" idea for mothership is a pretty ridicilous 'fix'.* their damage potential today isn't an issue. the rr, damage etc works fine as it is today.* fighters in fleet fights is a problem already, when i flew carrier i recalled my 10 fighters when the first got shot at. all was dead before they even initiated warp, some 5-10mins later. sometimes they refuse to come back and you have to scream at them over and over. not to mention a single doomsday will kill them before they return (where's the e-warp-out button?).* cost efficiency. in situations like above mentioned, you lose 20x15= 300mil for something that delivers nothing. am pretty sure t2 fighters would up that cost.. in comparison: a t2 fitted fully insured carrier with 10 fighters would cost you as much to lose, as one mom-load of fighters.these things would be priority on my list atm;* survivability. dreads melt your face while you try to fend off the hic's. it goes way too fast.* tad overlapping the survivability buff; local armor rr modules are way too weak. repping 9.6k on a regular slaved armor tank mom with what, 600k raw armor hp before fleet bonuses.. every 22.5 sec? that's below 15% total armor repped per minute. still a necessary module on moms, survival wise you want this if you get tackled, while waiting for your support fleet to come in. this module functions as a burst repper, and the stats should reflect it. more rep, faster cycle. it'll suck more cap which is negating the higher rep already.* make the clone vat bay useful. most useless module in the game atm? on paper it's great. move your mom, with ships, have pals clonejump to you. woot! but wait now, i get immobile, and what happens if my friends die? argh! this is just ****, needs work. sorry, i have no suggestions. there's probably alot more that could be discusssed. but in essence, this is some starters. no t2 fighters, please no. sort clone bay and survivability. take it from there."
"i would love to click on this and see a blue bar"
"i had 2 experiences with the petition system...in the first one, i was sitting, cloaked up, in war, watching a gate.... the wt's in local began to taunt me... no big deal... you mom wears army boots stuff...but then, they \"went there\"... deacribing in detail, what they wanted to watch me do with my son, and what they wanted to watch their dogs do to my daughter...cut/paste-to-petition/logoffthe next day there was a mail, from the head of their alliance, profusely apologizing for his... ex-team mates (he read what they had posted, then promptly ejected them from his alliance)turns out the gm was pretty on-the-ball, iding the people and mailing their management.... 1 step short of a ban, but it did make me feel better.the other one... kinda trivial in comparison, had to do with a procedural question re: submitting a bug, was answered in under 15 seconds... ( i mean.... i hit enter on the ticket, got in-game, took a sec to align, and there was a popup asking if i wanted to chat....)so... my personal experience: gm=2, forces-of-evil=0however, i support a more \"open\" policy on gm activity... possibly time-stamping petitions... auto-escalating if not acted on quickly...e-mail on any update to a petition...."
"don't list mods/ships that are at full health"
"fix'di'll send you my invoice.supported."
"supported."
"supported"
"gaven's and drake's proposals are both satisfactory."
"i like gaven's better than drakes because i really don't need to see undamaged objects in the repair screen when i have a dozen other ways of seeing them that are more efficient.to add to that what would be handy about drakes idea is if you saw an indicator for the damage outside of the repair screen."
"isk spammers hit the forums at an extremely rapid rate, at least one new topic per minute it seems. i propose that the forums be changed to allow each account to open only one new topic per 10 minutes."
"supporting myself."
"agreed. i don't want to see these forums hit by topic spammers or keyloggers or whatever these guys are trying to achieve.perhaps they are creating topics on trial accounts - if so, that should also be banned."
"these are paid accounts... trials can only post in new player or whatever that section is called"
"this guy has it right"
"not supported. if anything reduce duration of insurance to a month, and no payout for concord kills."
"supported! haven't been in matari ships long and i can easily see the shortcomings."
"i might be going out on a limb here, but if:-you set all ammo to have the same damage output-you 'balanced' all ship classes to have the same (or equally powerful) slot layouts and pg/cpu-you make sure that no one race has a single disadvantage over anotherwouldn't that make for a pretty boring game? you're complaining about small differences in dps- not quite minute, but small. small enough that were 2 fighting characters not completely maxed out in all gun and tank skills, you'd be hard pressed to see who's at a disadvantage.admittedly, i don't have experience flying minmatar, however as far as i'm concerned, they have plenty of advantages that balance out whatever disadvantages you seem to perceive."
"what you have just decided is how you balance systems is just the same as so many others. its a conceptual problem that most can't get past. hence why so few people have the ability to balance things effectively.you see to have things balanced does not require them to be the same or similar in their attributes, balance can be gained by having pro's and con's that when taken into consideration, you find that each different system is found to be equal yet still quite different.originally, though some zealots would disagree. the three main turret weapons types were reasonably balanced.projectile weapons in comparison to hybrids and lasers are no longer in balance. a good while ago before so many changes to eve, buffs to hitpoints, the proliferation of passive tanks and rr gangs, plus many many more changes, good or bad have had for the most part, a negative impact on projectile weapons.if we take into consideration what pro's projectiles have you will find they are few and mixed.no cap use <--- no longer relevant in the age of ehp tanks, active tanking needs a buff, bonuses to active tanking need an increase.high aplha <--- the hp buffs reduced the effectiveness of alpha strikes, with ehp tanking dps outweighs alpha.high falloff <--- merely a way to fight at range, heavy negatives in dps~ hit change and hit quality, no module increases it but td's reduce it.mixed/variable damage types <--- often spread three ways and t2 ammo is only explosive + kinetic. ammo has lowest base damage.easy fitting of autocannons <--- the only benefit, however with almost no increase in dps with higher tiers, may aswell use the smallest anyway.then look at the con'slowest dps <--- acceptable but not when the falloff is taken into account.worst optimal range <--- nearly impossible to build a decent sniper. \- autocannons all but have to fight in falloff, reducing the lowest dps far lowever than eft warriors realise.small clip size <--- artillery spends nearly 10% of its time just reloading, the clip size just doesn't cut it.no tech1 ammo with +falloff <--- tech1 autocannons are effectively worthless in pvp as there is no way except for rigs to increase falloff.lets be honest here, the pro's are actually for the most part con's. and the con's are not minor but big issues.now its fine to have low optimal ranges, even the lowest dps. however falloff, clip size, ammunition bonuses and base damage shouldn't be as they are."
"if you really wanted to fix ac's and arty at the same time you have to give them a reason to actually care if they have variable ammo types. the range restrictions determine what you fire just as much as what your firing at. to make it worse the short range ammo is virtually worthless in large arty while the long falloff is crushed by a combination of lower damage and a short targeting range inherent to minmatar ships. there needs to be two ranges for each of two types of ammo rather than 8 or 10 ranges. make a short middle short range(fusion range) and a middle long range ammo(nuclear range) and give the short range all the same damage total just different damage types and the same for the long range.this would help negate some of the optimal and dps problems on ac's while giving arty a huge boost to short range making it win the dps war somewhere in between lasers and railguns and increasing its long range damage output to offset the fact that minmatar ship designers don't give a crap about range at all anyways.we are all forgetting that another nerf to projectiles came in the form of kinetic shield and armor penetration. not only was it nerfed to hell and back years ago but then they added a skill to further nerf the crap out of what was supposed to be a tactical weapon option. which explains why the caldari missile boats and the minmatar weapons that rely heavily on kinetic damage often come up short compared to their contemporaries on the battlefield.don't get me started on base shield and armor damages of ammo types because that shouldn't even be in the game and certainly doesn't seem to hamper the damage output of the amarr in the slightest."
"all reasonable arguments- though i think you may have missed my point- yes, i agree that projectiles are inherently at a small disadvantage to other weapons systems (though not really enough to outweigh differences in skills of two fighting characters). my argument is not that they are on par with other weapons systems, but that they are weaker- and minmatar have advantages in other areas. for instance, the maelstrom has one of the best active tanks in the game, not to mention, the overall speed advantage in all minnie ships.in the end, i really don't think the change is needed, as it's perfectly possible to fly minnie ships as is."
"wow.. you didn't even read any of the arguments on this forum or any of the linked forums that totally blow that viewpoint out of water. i'm happy you wanna keep this thread going, but that is the best your post does. every argument you have brought up has already been addressed multiple times (and subsequently smashed into little bity bits.) in the ship and modules forums (which were linked and going on 21 pages).but to summarize:yes, at one time it had advantages to counteract the low dps.. however, they were all nerfed or buffed to the detriment of minnie bses and large projectiles. the following changes put minmatar battleships and large projectiles in the back of the pack.1. hp buff - removed the minmatar alpha strike from being more effective than dps for sniper fleets. it also caused active tanks to be less effective, meaning that active tanking required more cap than before (removing the benefits of capless weapons), and passive tanking dinged minmatar ships because they have less base shield and armor (a raven can armor tank better than a tempest, for example). this applies to the maelstrom in that while it is great for small quick fights, it does not hold up well in longer combat engagements.2. amarr weapons boost - a much needed boost for the amarr, it caused amarr pulse lasers to have greater optimal than autocannon's optimal+falloff combined. this, plus having instantly changeable ammo allows the amarr to always have a minmatar ship at optimal range, whereas minmatar ships have no choice but to fight at their optimal, with a worse tank and worse dps.3. vamp/neuts - this was one of the major nerfs to minmatar as using vamps and active tanks was a major fit used for pvp. while it affected plenty of ships, the tempest with two utility fittings lost the most. a major advantage is gone as there is no reason to fit vamps over neuts.4. ewar nerf - against another common tactic to improve minmatar battleship effectiveness was removed with the advent of the ecm nerf. another nice advantage gone.5. nano nerf - this \"rebalanced\" the battleships so that they all went slower, though minmatar battleships are still relatively fast, the tempest for example, now has the most mass, which means it has less agility now then before, and so it accelerates slower and decelerates slower. it essentially removes a minor advantage.some other points which you seem to have not read in your review of the forum..1. for an amarr battleship pilot to be effective in pvp, they need roughly 6mil sp. for a minmatar pilot, that number is closer to 20mil-30mil sp.2. we are the only race that is required to learn multiple weapon systems just to equal other races.3. actual combat tests factoring falloff range and hit quality indicates that our fighting style gets 38.5% of calculated dps. this is a tactic that minmatar are supposed to accel in, but when our base dps is less than everyone elses, and everyone's range either equals ours or is better than ours.. that's just bunk.4. current gaming mechanics put passive tanks as more effective in combat than active tanks. even by ccp's account, active shield tanking (another supposed minmatar advantage) is the least efficent tanking type."
"this is still the worst idea in all of eve.it is nothing more than a wet dream for all griefers and fleets of less than sizable force.essentially you are asking ccp to, in fact buff raiding parties.everybody who suggests this has little to no interest in the overall aspect of the game and is just concerned with their own killboard.you'd essentially kill 0.0 mining or industry.nobody could even undock without having some one on the outside to check to see if the coast was clear.you think gate camping for a gank is boring imagine having to camp a gate only to keep a head count.vent would be filled with pilots asking who was in system.no thank you. this is truly the worst kind of whinning in the world of eve. at least carebears don't know any better. any one calling themselves a pvp'ers who support this, is just a carebear who grew up and didn't leave their mommy's couch (or their teet). sorry your hac gang got hot dropped and pewn'd, but get over it. making local vanish in 0.0 would wreck the economy of eve as well as making living in 0.0 even more of a job and to do this just so you and your noob buddies can weekend warrior in 0.0 and smack how you got a goon killmail, i f'ing thing not.axwww.flyreckless.com"
"atraxerxes, that kind of blind rage posting isn't going to help support your case 1 bit.how about you calm down, take minute to think about things seriously, and then post some valid arguments. i'm also curious to know what the carebear side of the population thinks about my scouting beacon idea - it is definitely a compromise for the defender side."
"lol."
"one of the only ideas i've ever read that actually nerf the blob and boost the smaller group of players. love it."
"how about some sort of listing page listing players banned/negative walleted (that's not a word i realise) and the amount of isk confiscated from them to deter some of the idiots selling isk and maybe some corporations from recruiting isk sellers? i mean they violate the eula they may as well get shamed a little for it (read as \"laughed at for it\")just a thought."
"did you even read the eula?because if you had.... you'd be the top of the list for making such a ridiculous idea."
"no."
"i have no problem with such a page.i don't see why anyone, other than those who committed those crimes, would be against it. the isk sellers declared war on eve online community, and the best ccp and you people can do is pretend there's nothing wrong? \"just don't click\", \"just ignore them\" - that's not going to make them go awaywe need to go on the offensive or we will never rid of this problem. and it will keep getting worse as long as you keep ignoring it."
"ok, obviously my first response was too brief. let me expand.specifically, the part of this that is loaded with failsauce is the idea that it will in any way deter the isk sellers. do you honestly believe they care if your account gets emptied of cash and you get banned for purchasing said isk?posting the names of the isk sellers will be next to useless, since they're not really concerned about that particular account in most cases - it's going to get recycled anyway - hell, they can do what they do without ever training a single skill, so it's not like there's a huge investment in time there.posting the names of the isk buyers is also pretty much useless, because, aside from laughing at them for being morons, no one cares. human nature is one of those things that really doesn't change much. people that want to skirt the rules will try, regardless of the supposed consequences.i'll offer you a perfect real life corollary. in some cities in the united states they post the names and pictures of people caught soliciting prostitutes in an attempt to do exactly what you're trying to do here. guess what? people still solicit prostitutes in those cities. why? because of the \"i'm too smart to get caught\" syndrome. if you think a webpage is going alter that fundamental aspect of human nature - well then, frankly, you're an idiot."
"did you?"
"well in regards to the isk sellers names being posted i was more interested in the amount of isk that was removed from their account when it was done, offering more visibility of how nany isk sellers were being banned a day/week/month rather than taking it on good faith that ccp are doing anything.yes i realise isk sellers wont give a **** about their name coming up on some webpage."
"supported.if someone was cheating why to hide? it is not like his real name is published.and eula can be modified. many mmos have public banlist and they use it to warn people so its a prevention mechanism."
"i'm opposed to this idea for a few reasons. for one, a public false positive is a lot more pernicious than a private false positive - if a prominent player got hit for a legitimate transaction by an overzealous gm, it could be an utter fiasco, doubly so if they're in a trust-based industry like a lot of the md folks are. and yes, false positives do happen. for two, i don't expect it to be effective at all. as de'vel said, most people think they won't get caught(or else they'd avoid doing it in the first place, given the consequences of getting caught), and it's not like it's going to discourage the sellers. and for three, i don't trust ccp to keep the list updated well enough for it to work even if it would otherwise. they're too busy to bother with this sort of junk. on top of that, most people caught soliciting prostitutes don't consider doing so to be wrong in the first place, and neither do most isk buyers. name-and-shame only works if the person is actually ashamed."
"yes, tears would be awesome"
"please do it."
"ns"
"how do these threads get started? is it by people who hate fun? logically this type of thread should be started by one of two people. a mission runner who hates isk, or someone who wants everything in game to be expensive, due to reduced mineral and meta mods coming in from missions. either way, i can only assume the op hates his isk, and am suggesting he donate it to me."
"your missing the most obvious option. a macro miner who wants a bigger pay day. almost everyone in eve either runs missions or pvp's. the vast majority of accounts that don't participate in these actions are alts of people that do and then your left with a minuscule portion of the population that don't pew pew in some form because of how boring the other options are.if your just have to set in your hulk and mine because maybe the rhythmic pulsing of your lasers reminds you of being in the womb or something then that's your choice. if your not making enough money its because you haven't diversified the way mission runners have done. while your setting there watching the universe age maybe you should be getting research points from an r&d agent, copying and researching bp's, manufacturing goods, and trading. considering how long it takes to max out a hulk compared to maxing out a marauder you have plenty of time to venture into these fields that a mission runner won't have before they reach optimal performance and can branch into them.mission runners make the crazy isk by branching. nothing is stopping you except effort which by the number of supports for this topic both here and historically is accurately reflected."
"the ranges could be reduced a bit, but i don't see why these haven't been in game for a long time now."
"some days it just doesn't feel worth it to gnaw through the leather straps...i could explain at length why what you said is just as stupid as your first statement- but i won't bother. you wouldn't listen to me anyway."
"would train rorq for my alt to loot battlefields"
"this... not supported"
"i'm against this purely for the reason that it will make the life of loot thieves too easy."
"dunno if this has been suggested or not but here goes.currently the only way to expand the lp store window is via the lower right corner. can we change it to work for all sides and corners? thx a bunch"
"frankly i'm more concerned with how to screen out all those bloody hardwires. but hey, why not fix this?"
"i imagine this has been suggested a few times, i can't find it so i apologize if i step on anyone else's previous idea.here's my thoughts.. there are three neutral corps inside eve (not counting concord), they are the sisters of eve, interbus, and the society of conscious thought. since really the industrial folks don't have any faction ships, i propose that each of these corporations have a faction cruiser class (or thereabouts) available for those who run missions for them. nothing overpowering, but still something useful for what they plan.society of conscience thought - i figure a research cruiser would be a great thing for those who prefer to do astrometrics and archeology. it would have only two high slots, one being a launcher/turret (and or a small drone bay, max 50m3). it would get bonuses for probing and strength, and have a battlecruiser class tank.interbus - faction industrial ship for carrying goods.. not sure if it should be double the capacity of say a mammoth or similar, or if it should just have a large capacity and tiny signature. it should also give you a minor positive boost to faction stating (for all). not sure if there is anyway to do that in the system, but i think that would be kinda cool for moving stuff around between various faction space.sisters of eve - in line with their mission for assisting the downtrodden, sisters should get faction logistics cruiser. again this ship would be well tanked (battle cruiser equivlent) but have few hislots. i figure this ship would have two, maybe three at most with only one being a turret/missile launcher and a small drone bay. bonuses would be for either remote rep range, or reduction in cap use.i think this would be some nice additions to the game. though i guess that would mean that interbus and society of conscience thought would have to give missions in the first place.."
"no... just no... indys can already get over 30k m3... cov ops can scan down a 10/10 in 2 minutes.... logistics are strong enough as is."
"what i would like, and this is just a basic idea, is a checklist in the options screen for all the ranges you want to orbit at.could look something like this [] 500m[] 1mk[] 1.5km[] 2km[] 2.5km[] 5km[] 7.5km[] 10km[] 12.5km or whatever whatever whatever, list can be huge or not all that big, simply checkmark the ones you want on your right click menu and its there.that way you can have all the orbit at ranges you want available without all the extra ones you never use. this would also allow them to have more options available for us, like, i would kill for a option to set a orbit at 12km in my crusader."
"select the ship or item you'd like to orbit in your overview, in the selected item box, right-click orbit, and click 'set default orbit distance' and type in what range you'd like to orbit at- the same thing works for keep at range.however, i like your idea, too- we should be able to save preset orbit distances so in the heat of battle it isn't necessary to go through all those steps to setup an orbit. supported."
"how about, a happy medium. we allow cloaks to stay cloaked, but they pop up on the d-scan, and are probable within current game mechanics.this does allow people to be afk cloaky-ish, and also will not make them easy to find. however, the whole i'm here but not really thing will be a little sketchy, as there is always the possibility to be found. as always, eve should not be entirely safe, but afk cloakers seem to defy that basic rule.as an outside party who doesn't care so much one way or another, here is an idea i had. no one is forcing me to post this, nor do i have any monetary gain or loss at stake. this has not been funded by any political or for/non-profit organization. don't yell at me."
"nothing is broken. nothing needs to be fixed. no support."
"the whole point of cloaking is to be hidden.being detected on the d-scan is contradictory of that fact."
"there is no issue with afk cloaking people.so nothing here to support. lets move to the next topic."
"afk cloakers are also incapable of doing anything...but be afk...and sit there cloaked. i don't really see an issue."
"actualy afk cloaking doesnt work as in old times.if someone is afk cloaked he gets disconnected after some period of time but client doesnt refresh itself so either its a bug or intentional to prevent people from loitering on 7 accounts when other people try to login and play normaly.so actualy afk cloaker needs to check his account from time to time. and he needs to pay for it. either with plex card or money so he pays extra money only ot access extra local chat. its very efficient isk sink.the ammount of investmnets to keep that account live+cover losses is bigger then the cloaker can do dmg. the cloaker would need ot blow each day full combat fleet ot cover the expenses which doesnt work. thats why people who afk cloak do it for their alliance as service couse they are in loss."
"i feel i have to point out that afk cloaking is very seriously broken due to the current 100% infaliability of cloaking devices. however, i'm not sure if this is the right solution- or even if there is a right solution. it's a thorny issue, however i do take issue with people simply denying it exists."
"this is a dumb solution to a non-existent problem."
"true true true..."
"stop posting ideas...yours are all bad."
"allow damaged products to be inserted into a contract but if they do in fact have damage list it in the area where bluprint copy information is listed. this allows the contract viewer to see if there is damage and thus allow them to make their decision on accepting or not"
"why?i mean not to be dense, but why would you want to contract damaged goods and not just fix them before you contract it?"
"because i am 84 systems away and do not feel like traveling that far to repair 75mm railgun ii before contracting it to someone"
"no. too much scam potential."
"unless the contract clearly (and i mean stupidly obvious) contained text stating that a specific object was damaged and how much it was damaged..and then even before accepting the contract a nice dialog box should appear reminding the buyer they are purchasing damaged goods. only after all that would i support contracts for damaged items. hell, i'd go so far as to include a possible no-standings, empire npc station repair cost so that someone doesn't try to sell a battleship with 0% shield, 0% armor and 1% hull remaining to someone."
"the typhoon, claymore, cyclone, sleipnir, vagabond all look awful in the new graphics imho, vagabond especially it looks just rediculous, from 2006 to 2008 it was almost an iconic looking ship, it looked like a killer and it flew like one, these days it is neither.the vagabonds ''ears'' need to be brought back sleeker against the hull and their angles redone like the old classic client.the typhoon needs its hollowed out part at the front from classic put back in, this half a ship with a spike on the front looks dumb imhothe cyclone hull and its derivatives need its frontal fins heightened and made broader at the top like it was in old classic clientofc this will probably never happen but i've wanted to say this since the day they brought premium graphics in, for the most part premium looks great but minmatar got so shafted."
"allow all repackageable items to be repackaged as opposed to stopping the repacking process at the first unpackageable item."
"what?what are you talking about?"
"currently, say you want to repackage a 10mn mwd, a damaged magnetic field stabilizer, and a small tractor beam. if you were to \"select all\" or shift click the 3 mods to try repackaging them all at once, the mwd will become repackaged, but you will get an error notification that the mag stab is damaged and cannot be packaged. this ends the repacking process before it get's to the small tractor beam, which also does not get repackaged.i am merely suggesting it not stop repackaging at the single damaged mod, and continue the process on the next undamaged mod"
"then it might help if you said that in the first place.don't be lazy when it comes to making proposals.you'll live longer."
"yeah, this is silly. fix it. furthermore, you'll ensure drake lives longer, since you won't be making his blood-pressure spike by writing a proposal he doesn't follow"
"supported. this is both annoying and unnecessary."
"while i appreciate your support, drake, my origional post was fine, if brief, no need for the negativity, or this stupid \"live longer\" stuff"
"and let me contract busted stuff too"
"it wouldn't be the end of the world if someone on eve forums didn't understand something that was blatantly obvious to everyone else."
"i would like to see the scan button moved 10 pixels away from the other scanning buttons long before thisso i would make it lowest priority on my list, but support fixing all the little annoying quirks in eve"
"another no-brainer -these are the types of things i wish ccp would devote 1 hour of programming to before spending all their time on new patches with even more silly bugs and things like this."
"basically a separate area from the main cargo bay where we can keep our mining crystals in mining barges. say 450m3 for a couple sets of crystals.i know this isn't a big deal, it's merely an idea"
"i'd support this tbh, makes so much sence it's unreal.only on deadicated mining ships tho."
"the devs have already discussed doing something similar to this starting with fuel bays for covert ops ships."
"well. eve is a team game. i dont see why this needs to be done on the mining barges/exhumers. orca got a nice corp hangar for them."
"i would like to see a separate bay for ammo on battleshipsoh! and a really big one for cap boostersno!optimise and divide your cargo space to the best of your abilitiesuse t1 miners if you don't want to worry about crystalssome ships need to carry large stuff (fuel) and they're cargo just isn't big enough, with a bigger cargo the black-ops would be super-haulers, that's why they get a special fuel bay"
"this isn't even a serious proposal. i mean come on- a warning when you create your character to not play 1 of the 4 races in the game? obvious troll is way too obvious, or simply way too stupid.it is pretty fair to say minmatar bs suck though, but frankly what else is new? fix large projectiles. but that has nothing to do with this thread."
"reiterating what has been said time and time again. it takes a ton of sp to fly the assortment of minny ships, but they fill a gap no other race can in pvp. versatility. i don't hve to explain it all here, but if you aren't having a good time in s minny pvp ship, you aren't fitting it like it should be fitted"
"fixed it for you"
"don't forget the sleipnir. it's just a horrible waste of a command ship."
"no."
"he csm can't even they can't even do what they are supposed to properly and you want them to have mod powers"
"@vukdunno what part of ex yu you're all from but i pay for 6 accs for me and my friends with a depit card and it was rejected only when there was no money on it to charge for the subscription, never any problems at all... for years(i'm from croatia and pa"
"it's a good support skill that helps almost all setups if not all setups out there. that has nothing to due with the proposal though. the problem is that tech ii webs have no benefit besides extra -10% web strength.no increased optimalno reduced cpuno reduced capno increased durationno reduced heat damagei get all of this for having to train level 4 of propulsion jamming when there is bore usefulness out of warp disruptor ii that only requires level 2 of propulsion jamming because it increases the range rather than the affect of the module unlike the webifier i don't understand how giving webs a bonus to optimal is that much of a bonus when they did it to warp disruptors. the proposal to do the same requires a high level skill that topples over the disruptors training to get the best bonus on top of that.either counter the reason on why increased optimal is a bad thing or don't disagree at all. arguments welcomed."
"minus the word unfortunately, thisi'd have loved to be given all lvl 5 skills, but alas i have to delegate my training time to suit my needs."
"\"no benefit besides the extra -10% web strength\"what an absurd justification, you've made an exception to a core principle of what is being discussed, you could use the same justification to say the vaga is a poor hac because it has no advantage besides speed, or that the falcon is underpowered because it gains no benefit except jam strength.the 20% increase in effect is an important and powerful part of the modulenot supported."
"if speed was a useless bonus for the vaga. you must read before posting."
"also calling a troll on op."
"that was his point"
"i guess i can see the point there if the bonus was useful to most but i don't see much benefit in it only because of the experience in using it. i don't mean to sound uptight about it just that the bonus doesn't seem as useful as i think it could be. we have webbers with that much range in game and every web can reach at least 13km already."
"supported. i think what the majority of the people who are disagreeing with the op fail to understand is that the concord equivalent of 'faction police' in the other systems are incurring a 'concord level' criminal flag, instead of the regular 'yellow' aggression flag commonly associated with being aggroed by faction navies."
"i've petitioned and got ships back from when this happened (twice)."
"in this sense concord systems should behave like any other 1.0 system."
"not supported. if you're sec status is not up to par and you wanna test concord on their turf, it's your chance with the law, despite the game mechanics. however they need to beat you is how they need to do it, weird mechanic or not. you want a changed mechanic? you should be insta-locked and killed on the gates.seriously, eve already begs its players to get low sec status, we don't need more incentives that let people just waltz where they want with no repercussions. keep your sec status up or stay away from concord."
"supported, but i would prefer that there be no police or concord response at all unless the pilot is currently gcc and is in high security space. imo an outlaw should be able to travel freely but would be fair game for any player that wishes to attack him."
"not supported in its current form.the system is bugged, yes- but you need to clarify exactly what you want to happen- does concord respond the same as the faction police would? in that case, i definitely would not support this. imo, remove the gcc, but continue to have concord warp scram / engage people faster than faction police- just as they would irl. that way you don't automatically get stuck in system and left out to dry- but it certainly makes things a bit more challenging."
"wut? you don't like space potatoes?"
"this post is to bring to light a game mechanic that can be used as an exploit for what it was meant for.hi-sec pos unable to shoot any player unless it's a war target.while some may have many dissmissive posts because it has no effect what so ever toward them (good for them), the fact remains this can be used against it's unintended purpose.reason why hi-sec pos can't shoot anyone but war target:to protect it from concord response.to protect noob players within a corp from aggressing it and getting blown up.reason this is an issue:this leaves a small-med and even large tower very vulnerable to infiltrating corp members with the intention of reinforceing the pos/incapacitating the defenses (at no risk to them).there are of course many responses that others may have, but it comes down to one thing. the pos has no ability to defend itself due to it being blocked from doing so, even when manually controlled.this ability is available in low-null sec, and should also be available to it in hi-sec.my proposal is to remove the ability of any corp member to shoot their corp pos in hi-sec with no reprecussion. this can be fixed 2 ways:set corp members to the same mechanic the pos is set to (not able to shoot hi-sec pos).set hi-sec pos to same mechanic it has in low/null sec (the ability to shoot any corp member that aggresses it)of course a warning message could appear for the second option should someone be noob enough to shoot their own corp pos,and proper settings need to be in place for repping/shield transfering of course.if the mechanic is changed to shoot members, also has to be looked at that a member cannot leave a corp while in space of their own request.i know there are many possible responses to this, and i assure you for every valid response there is a valid counter response.what it all boils down to no matter what your stance the fact remains it's still a broken mechanic.if the pos mechanic is set so it cant shoot corp members to protect them from being ganked should said corp member be ejected from the corp. this is not a neccessary mechanic, as you can't eject a corp member while they are in space."
"i support/endorse this proposal."
"you know that if you ask for something sensible then ccp will screw it up somehow.i propose in stead something ridiculous in stead.multiple warning screens for badly place buttons, hell make it for ever button and module on the ui. should be 3 at least just to be sure.1. \"are you sure you wish to do this action?\"2. \"mistakes do happen! are you absolutely sure you wish to do this action?\"3. \"obviously by now you are 100% certain you've selected the correct button and ccp will not be held accountable for any negative result from proceeding which this action!\""
"yes please. i've only misclicked a couple of times myself, but come close to it many times more./ben"
"i support, but only if you have the afk party show up on a list indicating their shiptype, how long they have been afk, and their exact location. they also must appear on overview and be a warpable object. they cannot use this function in station, and concord won't help them.tl;dr mostly useless"
"yeah, this. the slider scale would have to be logarithmic though."
"other thread."
"i don't think you need two topics on the same subject locked."
"what happens to the insurance if i take modules off? not to mention that while irl you can insure your stuff, its a lot harder to scam the insurance company irl (or get away with it at least).the idea is nice but i'm afraid it would be hugely impractical/exploitable."
"even on the test server, some of ccp want the old effects back."
"/signedcome on ccp bring back the old cyno effect we love it :)"
"lets keep this thread going"
"so aleks- what do you think a reasonable counter to an af should be?"
"while i do support a change not sure if a separate docking timer is appropriate.i would like to see any aggression including docking timers transfered to the rr, this means if you want your rr to dock up you either stop rr your target or you get your target to stop aggressing so both of you can dock.this would allow say a few rr bs to all keep rr each other on a gate or station and use this as a tactic, else you will require a logistics ship 50km off the battle to help every one to dock and encouraging the use of more alt/ooc remote reps. of course if you have someone silly in your gang and is still aggressed while everyone is rr them when they were supposed to deagress it could cause more losses. it makes team work and communication a more critical part of the fight."
"supported"
"i can't realy understand this. the sheer number of fights iv'e been in and i have never had a neutral remote repper in the fleet with mbalm or even privs. wev'e had rsb's but never nuet rr.hmmmmmm"
"what you're supporting is a completely reasonable solution- however it's not what pitboss had in mind when he created this thread (unless he did, and he's just refusing to clarify, because apparently i'm 'trolling')."
"also having the popping sounds. funny thing is, even if i turn the master level to 0 in eve i still hear the popp'susing realtek ac97 onboard soundcardnot going to test it on my m-audio soundcard since the bug seems to destroy soundcards :s"
"yes, support this!!!!!"
"however bring back warp scrams sound effect that was enojoyable"
"new one sucks, i liked the old one but making it a tad more subtle would be nice.i think it was gang links that also used this god awful effect, seriously does it even need one?"
"fixed it for me."
"signed. i also vote that concord be left donuts leading to the titan just to add the the lols"
"signed"
"awesome idea.op supported."
"i could get on that, if and only if every faction item is put on the market."
"substitute: safespot, cloak, log off.substitute: neutral alt scout."
"i agree with the philosophy behind this thread, but having once worked in the mmo customer service field, i am perhaps more pessimistic about possible changes.i have a few \"devil's advocate\" points that i've run into in the past which may be food for thought.ccp is going to resist doing anything that costs more money. hiring more gm's costs money. training the gm's better also costs money. a gm will only work for x amount of hours a day, and training time is not time spent working.the people who are gm's are usually people who make so little money that they couldn't afford to play the game they are gming for. they are stuck to a desk, and every aspect of their performance is monitored via the computer. they are no doubt required to answer a quota number of petitions per day, which their managers then use to determine if the amount of work they do is worth the amount they are being paid. gm's and other customer service people are \"caught in the middle\" the players beat on them for sucking, and their management rides them like taskmasters. it is, truly, a thankless job.when you first start as a gm, you may have visions of being the beacon that the players have been looking for, but you soon find out that your hands are tied to actually make any change that means anything.. and since your hands are tied anyway there are no qualms about the management and the players beating the idealism out of you.you become a cog in a machine. you learn what your managers expect of you, and you provide exactly that, and not an inch more. since your company likely prefers to run its current employees on 14 hour days instead of hiring more employees, you get to be a cog for most of your life. when you get home and collapse, the very last thing you want to do is play the game that you work for. you're lucky if you can muster up the willpower to even look at a computer screen.it's not just the management that's the problem. you and i both know that eve is chock full of scammers who would like nothing more to pull a fast one on a gm. the last thing a gm wants is to draw attention to himself by being scammed, and the management likely has draconian limits on exactly what gm's can and can't do in many situations for this simple reason.on top of that, i'll wager that there are a ton of gm petitions that are complete garbage and aren't worth a gm's time anyway. in fact, i'd wager that most petitions are something that the player could have solved themselves. that's not to say that legitimate game problems happen, it's just that when it happens 2 out of every 500 petitions, they are easy to gloss over seeing as how you're not much more than a zombie powered by caffiene at this point.the bottom line here is that ccp doesn't give customer service a very high priority. they don't give it a high priority because real, working customer service is very, very expensive for the company, and the company doesn't make hardly any money from the gm department. it's a giant sink in their budget that doesn't give anything back.let's face it, everyone on this thread is irked enough to post something, but few of them are actually willing to quit over it.. and so long as you're not quitting, then what does it matter how your game experience is? ccp still gets their money.do you want ccp to give customer service more priority? they'll have to pull it out of some other department's budget. which department should get the cuts first? what priority does customer service hold in the grand scheme of ccp?if you're going to talk straight to ccp themselves, it would be wise to have answers to these questions."
"i'm gonna call bull****, klaitu.here's why: any company that wishes to make money is going to have to spend it. the question is how much do you spend for how much gain? in the case of the support staff, i would venture that ccp could make more than they spend if they would un-**** the support.that means: * better training. * better oversight (not micromanagement, but consequences for blowing off valid petitions) * more and more competent gms. * a real commitment to excellence in customer support.as i note in our most recent podcast (blatant plug), i have spoken personally with many people who have heard about eve and the horror stories of the support. like it or not, ccp has dug their own hole on this one and their support is worse than other mmos of their caliber. i have played quite a few and while clueless gms are pretty common, the kind of stuff we see and have gotten so used to with eve would have made any number of lesser mmos auger in by now.fact is, eve only survives its abysmal support and the frankly player-hostile perception that most people have of their gm team by dint of the fact that it is such a great game. but that hole has a bottom.ccp would do far worse than to spend some time and money repairing their reputation. closing valid petitions in 3 seconds is not a good way to do it."
"seriously, i've had better customer service at wal-mart"
"as a proof that there is a bit of hope for gm dept is something like this awesome blog by gm grimmi"
"that is proof that they are willing to go after people messing up their profits... not actually provide descent customer service"
"i agree with you, i'm just saying that ccp would have to invest money in improving their gm support, an investment which does not return very much profit.from ccp's perspective, eve is a successful, fast-growing game. improving their gm support will not make eve that much more successful, and it won't cause eve to grow that much faster. that's why it's not high on their priority list now.i hope that the petitions and the csm are able to make some changes here, i just think that it's an uphill battle."
"1.0"
"this should easily be possible, just a small fix :)supported ^.^b"
"another one of those easy ui tweaks"
"as a ship manufacturer i support the no insurance"
"lol as it certainly helps your customers to buy more ships if they have less money for it?:) dont you think you cut your own meat here? i suspect the only thing it would change is more people buying plex as they certainly dont want to carebear more. or even feed rmt (although their rates are higher than plex atm.)all the people who cant afford more plex will just sit in station until they can afford it again. (or scam the crap out of everyone.)imho the current insurance payout is fine. it balances the game out between people with indirect income (moons, industrial alts to some degree) and people mainly playing for pvp."
"insurance sets an artificial base line for ship prices. it's removal would actually boost ship prices in the long run."
"i agree with orakkus.if the advantages didn't outweigh the disadvantages then people wouldn't have been complaining about them more and more over the years since the alpha nerf. to boot it has only gotten worse sense then."
"i made a thread on this topic a year ago, but since it didn't get raised, i'm bringing it up again. current situation: amarr combat drones are awful. they do the lowest dps against any believable resistances, and they're nothing special in hp or speed. proposed change: give amarr drones(acolyte/infiltrator/praetor only - curator and templar are fine) significantly more hp than any other race's, by increasing their hp by a factor of 4-6. benefits: gives amarr drones some marginally useful roles - attacking an enemy with smartbombs, surviving sleeper aggro longer, and other similar circumstances where hp matters more than dps - without screwing up the current balance of drone types for most tasks. drawbacks: none."
"i normally don't question your findings hersch... but you sure?because i've found them to be quite strong... but then i'm not attacking sleepers either.but even then... they could use a bit more hp.supported."
"yeah, amarr drones need some love to make them a viable choice."
"the raw numbers simply aren't there. gallente drones have significantly more hp, aren't too much slower, and do 39% more dps. amarr drones work, but every other race's work much better."
"depend on target.so pvp or pve?i have a good level of skills in drones and i find them useful, but then i am not running a caldari ship that already can select hid damage changing missiles.maybe you should try it using some of the hybrid guns ships on the caldari lineup or gallente ships and you will see how you want to use those \"useless\" drones, at least in pve. pvp you go for the faster or those doing more damage as you stat with the hypothesis that you enemy has an omintank."
"but even when fighting npcs, msot enemies weakest to em are also quite weak to thermal, and the base damage boost offered by gallente drones totaly blows the minor resistance bonus out of the water.i agree with the ops changes, making them the \"high hp drones\" would be good, though 4-6x may be a tiddle too much, around 3x would be plenty i think....caldari drones also need some loving, they aren't as bad, but they still have very little niche at all, except the sentries, but all sentries are good."
"i definitely like the idea- but a 4-6x increase is a bit too much. 3x is reasonable.now what can we do to make caldari drones viable for pvp? :p"
"so theyll survive 2 more smartbomb cycles ok thats great"
"the are usable, now about making them worthwhile to use, well thats a different story.i'm not sure that i agree with your idea, but the whole matter definetly does need some looking into."
"it doesn't matter what my weapons are doing, damage shifting or no, i'm going to pick the best drones, and amarr drones are never best. gallente are best against blood, drones, and sanshas, caldari vs guristas and serpentis, and minmatar against angels. amarr don't come close to being best against any npc type - it varies by individual rat, but even on the ones where amarr drones aren't totally awful(blood/drone/sansha), you're generally taking at least a 10% hit to dps if you try to use them. if amarr were near the top, then i'd probably say 3x. they're fairly low on hp as-is - well below gallente. as for caldari, they're mostly fine, but they tend to be used as jack-of-all-trades drones, so you can double their hp and call it even so you're hitting a carrier that has a large proton smartbomb ii, and you have a choice of a standard ogre ii or a 4x hp praetor i(since you're not crazy enough to train amarr drone spec 4). the ogre survives until the 12th smartbomb activation(assuming drone durability 5), and does 2765 damage before skills in that period of time. the praetor survives until the 27th smartbomb activation, and does 3726 damage before skills. if you're crazy and have the skills to use a praetor ii, you get 33 cycles and 5465 damage before skills. that's twice as much as the ogre ii, and on a max-skill domi, that's almost 56k damage of difference. that enough for you?"
"in the future please refer to amaar drones by their proper name:sleeper bait.supported."
"just make the usefull for atleast 1 thing, currently they aren't worth it at all.supported ^.^b"
"on what are you basing that statement?i use practical game evidence: my acolytes kill sansha, blood raiders and drones faster than my hobgoblins. maybe eft say differently, but that is my experience in game. 30% less shield, same armor, for 20% more speed. and you see it as balanced .... they are faster, so harder to hit with no aoe weapons, start doing damage before the the ogre (faster=get to the target faster) and, in your scenario, survive longer?but yes, you are balancing ogre ii with t1 praetor.sorry, you haven't convinced me."
"i am a big time miner so you would say i would support this.however, i run missions as well, lvl2 solo and lvl4 with corp buddies (mostly as a salvager or taking on the smaller ships) and i wouldn't like to lose the loot that is dropped and generates a nice side income.i have a hulk, pretty much maxed out, which makes me decent isk but it could be more. the price of (especially) trit has dropped so much, it is insane!it would be better to have ccp set a bottom price for specific goods, like trit, because if this continues soon we will be selling trit for under 2 isk a unit.."
"thats sorta the point here sparky.with the macro's gone though we've seen a huge mineral recovery in the market with many minerals approaching their 3 year averages again.except zydrine, which outta tell someone at ccp the drone regions need retooled."
"i want to make some points clear to all the nay sayers. please, just read this with an open mind.if meta0 modules were removed from npc rat drop tables, you would find several things happen. most of them positive.firstly, you will find that for the short term there is a shortage of low/null sec minerals, this will drive mineral prices up.this is by and large a good thing, with minerals costing more, you will find less capitals, less battleships, more of the mixed smallerclasses in pvp, if cost isn't an issue for the massive alliances then it will not affect them, but truth be told, if they don't get theirmeta0 modules from ratting, then often they too will need to rely on miners. this means that there will be more guard duties and activitiestanking place, not just roaming gangs looking for kills. but i stray from the point... mixed hull sizes in pvp is a good thing.next you may not like this but the truth is, missions give far too much reward for the time it takes, bounties, loot, salvage, lp and reward. its out of balance with the rest of the game and even if its only by a fraction, should be reduced. removing meta0 will do that and boost another profession greater than the loss to the mission goers.with a deficit of low/null sec minerals and only mining and drones been the source, you will find that more industrialists will be looking at mining in low sec, if they go to low sec they will bring others in their corps, protection and haulers. mining ops will become common place in low sec and so because of that, pirates will have more targets. low sec will cease to be an empty wasteland and more alive.a new avenue for buddying industrialists will emerge, the tech1 meta0 module producers. who currently would produce a miner i? noone in their right mind would, but to make a miner ii you need one. if the meta0 modules are removed then to make a tech2 module you will need to make the tech1 or buy them from someone who makes them. thats a very good thing.so when you say no, think for a second. are you saying no through personal greed and selfishness or do you believe that no is the best way for the betterment of eve?i can't think of any valid reason beyond selfish greed that would reject this suggestion."
"how about you not look at eve with an orwellian point of view and realize that true balance in a game as complex as eve is impossible and following that logic one profession has to make more money than the others.will it impact mineral supply? yes. will eve be better off now that only a select few players can afford a battleship much less anything else? hell no! about half the player base will unsub because of the grind you would have to endure just to build, buy, or kit a freaking bs. if you wan't to know why minerals cost so little then figure out why hundreds of mining barges are sold per week in jita but there isn't a similar demand for exhumers despite it being only slightly more difficult to train into.loot and salvage are a part of eve not just missions. to take full advantage of them you need to branch into sub professions and nothing is stopping you from doing that in mining.i hate to burst your bubble but when times were better low sec was still a barren waste land.so remove meta 0 loot from all drops not just missions. this will **** off lots of folks and significantly impact the income of beginning players as they won't get any loot just crap bounties.i am saying no because your wanting to significantly impact gameplay due to the popular style of play effecting another play style without considering how economy of scale impacts the situation. this has been proposed a billion times and failed every time because your not looking at the big picture.i run missions but i don't loot or salvage. does that screw up your preconception?"
"i'd rather have loot jsut drop \"damaged\" (0/20 hp) and needing to be repaired. station repair services should eat minerals instead of isk.but nontheless, i support the general idea..."
"waaaaaah don't nerf my isk faucet.man the tears in these threads today, frickin awesome.its amazing to see the turn out when ever certain things are threatened with proposed changes, and oddly enough, its almost always dealing with mission runners."
"fify"
"it's a small annoyance, but still an annoyance. fix, please."
"please. and while we're at it, could it not reset to the top of the list every time you buy something. sometimes i want to buy the same thing twice (or more). usually in fact, since i mostly spend my lp on ammo and implants."
"the bandwagon - i'm on it."
"no.. let the topic die already.inventors actually have an advantage on bpo holders since they can effectively produce more by an exponential amount and also dump stock and switch into a different model at the drop of a hat.remember, a bpo holder can only produce off a single print at any given time. a good invention account can literally produce hundreds more of the same item."
"especialy that bpo is 2x quicker per single slot, and owner can invent also ?"
"solution 1: change to a different market.solution 2: stop making interceptors and make something else.solution 3: accept that your interceptor sales may be slower than a bpo owner and adjust production accordingly.in eve as in the real business world, you don't ask the market to change to meet your needs. you change to meet the needs of the market.or you go out of business.edit: i so fail at spelling some days."
"fail logic is failbpo holder has all advantages due to no need for invention (datacores, copies, failure rate) simply stick it on the line and press go."
"this/thread"
"as a t2 producer using both bpos and invention, i argue that this entire complaint holds no water whatsoever.with one of my bpo's i can build, at most, 1127 units of a particular item a month using 1 manufacturing slot.inventing that same module allows me to use the entire available manufacturing capacity of my local station with several accounts. granted the waste is a little steep at 50%, and it takes me twice as long to build each unit, but at the end of the same month i can produce 15000 units of that item (again, using several characters).using just 1 account i can produce 1127 with one build slot and 4300 with my other nine build slots.the net return is that my invention far, far outpaces my bpo production and returns me more profit over time than that bpo."
"if this was a real market, there wouldn't be a finite amount of t2 bpo's, corporations would be inventing them.i have no problem with t2 bpo's existing, i do however have an issue with the fact that there are no new t2 bpo's been released.bring back the t2 lotteries.if that isn't acceptable, then increase the invented t2 bpc's material efficiency to a decent positive, such as me25. also increase the maximum possible runs for the t2 bpc's.if people want t2 bpo's to stay, then invention needs a hefty buff, thats all there is to it.btw: i will be quite honest, anyone who disagrees with t2 producion bpo's and bpc's needing a rebalance, are not thinking of the betterment of eve but in their own selfish self interest. for those people, i care not what happens to you and your self interest, you can be damned all i care."
"this is the same reason i hate political debate a lot of the time. the assumption that people who disagree with you are not misguided, don't have different priorities, but are simply evil is one of the most poisonous aspects of political debate, and it disgusts me how many people adhere to that simplistic a worldview. do us all a favour - operate on the assumption that most people who disagree with you do so with noble intentions. not all - jackasses exist - but most. in this case, i genuinely do feel that this change would utterly defeat the purpose of the invention/bpo split, and genuinely would make the game worse. t2 lotteries in the first place were a mistake, but we're stuck with them. let's not screw it up further, please."
"wtfdo you really fail at the search function?we just had that topic like 2 weeks ago.not supported in any form.(and yes i am heavily doing invention.)"
"t2 bpo at 10x - 100x t1 bpo cost , freely available on the market.invented t2 bpc inherit t1 bpc me/pe div 10 or there abouts.current situation is lol rp breaking apart from anything else.i'm sure lai dai would give away there cerberus bpo for example and then never bother selling any for profit."
"then you're a fracking idiot. no company is going to just \"give away\" anything that might earn them a profit - and if they think it gives them a competitive advantage, they won't sell it either, unless they think selling it offers them a larger advantage.in your logical failspew above, lai dai would not only have not given away a cerebus bpo, they would routinely sue the crap out of anyone that even so much as tried to invent a new one.dumbass."
"that would be one way to move more production to low/null sec.that being said... i really would like to see some path (even if it is long and breaking even takes years) to obtain new t2 bpos. for me at least i would see it as something to work towards, if not for the isk generated but for the fun of building up a good solid collection."
"man i love these threads, the t2 bpo holders come out of the woodwork frothing at the mouth at the slightest mention of their precious bpo's leaving the game."
"did you notice that even non bpo owner tell those people that their logic is flawed?try to sustain the supply for a decent sized alliance just from t2 bpos."
"seriously!i am complaining that my rig bpo collection is almost worthless now, and i have to buy and research and 2 more entire sets... but heaven forbid you touch a t2 bpo!!!"
"yes move to that 20% t2 items that make profit inventing, and competition is high, good luck"
"there are more ways do adapt and earn money.after reading the numbers from the qen i should wonder why we make so much isk with that. see you on the battlefield err market. :d"
"i've never even seen a t2 bpo, let alone owned one. my primary income source is invention. and i'm telling you that this is a terrible idea."
"are you really this stupid? or are you just trolling us? i'm going to give you the benefit of the doubt and assume the latter."
"before whining at least inform yourself. look the time needed to get a t2 bpo to me 25. ans the advantages of doing that.for modules it modify only the asteroid minerals requirement (and the same for the negative me), so a negligible part of the cost.for ships it is a bit more important, but anything above me 5-10 is mostly a waste of time."
"why you don't cite the other data?89% of all the hulks come from bpc,75% of all the hac88% of cap rechargers ii92% of all the cov ops cloakeasy to argument using only a selected section for the data.you see my \"friend\" it work in the reverse. it is not that inventors don't invent interceptors because the evil bpo owners push them away, inventors avoid inventing interceptors because they can use their resources for better things like inventing hacs.so bpo owner are those left to cover most of the demand as they can't change production. remove the bpo and you will still have very few people inventing interceptors as the hac still pay more for the time and resources used. edit: spelling"
"soulution tree would be good.make it so every one has a chance to get a t2bpo form invention.0,00001% chance or so."
"just make it so 1 character per paid account. that way you get rid of some of the clutter in jita, nail some of the forum warriors alts, and actually make it so that those ebil piwates that are so proud of their -10 status cannot hop on another toon and go shopping for new gear in hihg-sec.now if you really want those 514 alts, you can pay for that 514 accounts and not just 172."
"you do know you can only have 3 toons per account right?so you do realize that your little \"exaggeration\" makes you look just a wee bit foolish... right?you did think about this before you started down this road.. right?i thought so.not supported.ps: i'm in favor of blocking alts from posting on the forums in many areas but removing them all together is not a good idea."
"ok whom of the 3 toons on my account is the main? how do you decide which one i can use to post?:)and for the op:and in your next thread you will ask to allow only 1 account per player?anyone who wants to do decent stuff with alts will have them on extra accounts anyway so they dont loose training time. so the only thing you would do is forcing pirates to use an alt on a different account for their hauling.and for the jita scam. people even pay accounts to post scam links for keyloggers and stuff on the forums, which is illegal. so you dont think they would get another paid account for scamming? (which is legal.)"
"i can do math... apparently you can't. grab a calculator, punch in 513/3"
"that's fine... you want to pay an extra $15/month to have a spammer alt, or a scammer alt, or a jita shopping alt, or a cyno alt, or a mining alt, or a missioning alt... etc etc etc"
"yes."
"there is no issue here.so no."
"this is an awful idea - the only reason i can think of for it would be to try to get more money out of the players, which i'm obviously not a fan of. you seem to be basing your whole argument on envying people who are using a mechanic as intended to do something that you can also do. i really don't get it."
"i myself have few accounts, but yeah why not this could be funny no more cyno alts"
"present a legitimate problem with the current system before asking for a change. the only would-be viable argument you gave is that it causes more server lag because of spam alts in trade hubs- but that's completely unfounded, since you can only log on to one character per account at a time, so no additional lag is created. as for cyno/hauling alts, what's wrong with that? if you want to spend a month or so to get an alt into a decent hauler while diverting the training of your main, so be it. there's nothing broken here."
"1. \"indys can already get over 30k m3.\" sure, but what about the other option, or now with dust 514 coming out, maybe something more specific to transporting troops? i certainly don't want something that will step on the duties of t2 transports either.2. yes, cov ops can scan down a 10/10 in 2 minutes, but a cov ops can't tank any of the rats at various archelogy sites. having a ship like that would reduce that need, while not being especially useful in pvp combat.3. yes, current t2 logistic ships are strong enough, but the t1 versions are anemic and too easily removed from the battlefield. having a faction logisitc cruiser could bridge the gap, without making it a pvp powerhouse.i've seen no other additional support, so unless that changes i'm just going to drop this."
"i'd like orbit and range information stored per ship type"
"i would like to set the whole list and save it for every singe of my ships."
"this sounds like a great idea - easy and customizable."
"supported."
"this.but more importantly, moar ranges for \"keep at range\"3 whole ranges to select from doesn't cut it, especally when the furthest you can select is 500m (how is this useful?)"
"^^"
"just for fun guys no need to cry about it :-p"
"/supportedmaybe cap should be taken for the cloak modules, when \"non cloaker\" ships are move in cloak."
"/supportedneed to fix - afk cloakingmake it cry the 0.0 coward cloakers."
"no.damn nullsec carebears getting knickers in a twist. 0.0 isnt meant to be safe, cloakers are one of the few ways people can make life dangerous for you in your home systems.they cry that the cloaker is always afk.what they are really crying about is the threat of being ganked while ratting."
"cloaks are also one of the only modules that enable small corps to fly in deep 0.0 without begging for alliance permission/pet status. we need to leave wiggle room for the little guys in this sandbox."
"so let me get this straight, you agree eve should never be safe... but you are adamantly against afk cloakers hving any natural enemy?for all intents and purposes, this is basically macro fear mongering, if you are in space you should have no way of being 100% safe.i don't mind not having this be the end all be all change, but it seems like you are not holding everyone to the same standard."
"no issue, let this poor topic die"
"the proper solution is to remove local chat as intelligence tool.it would make afk cloakers completely irrelevant"
"this is a really interesting idea.as for people who say afk cloaking is fine, and no counter is needed, i've always been a proponent of actually playing the game i'm playing- no? i feel the same way about this as i do about amarr afk pos bashing- it's just st***d."
"this. not supported."
"bring mines back in form of decloakers! asp mine ii ftw!"
"or not. whats so horrible about people being cloaked?"
"just not needed. no support here."
"i'm sorry, but this just doesn't make sense. don't get me wrong- i think that there should be some way to keep people from cloaking and going afk- but this isn't it. if you're cloaked and afk, presumably you're not moving, and wouldn't be affected by your lattices. if you're cloaked and at your keyboard you should be safe."
"supported, and item should be noted as damaged in the contract"
"yup... contracts should tell all...if its clearly indicated in the 'fine print' scam away... not that you'll get my isk.supported."
"that's a fair reason.as long as the contract is crystal clear, i'd support this."
"supported if contacts do clearly state the damage as mentioned by the op.hate not being able to contract fitted amarr ships (crystal damage) or not being able to contract over a ship because i overloaded a module and forgot to repair it straight away."
"not supported.even with damage information displayed, it would just be another annoying thing to check with each contract to make sure some isn't trying to scam someone else. i do realize there may be the notion if someone doesn't check and gets screwed over it is their own fault. however, i am not in favor of adding changes which increases such odds for buyers considering a change like this would only benefit a small percentage of individuals who have damaged goods.repair an item if it can be repaired, if not, then don't look to contracts or the market for exchange."
"fully supported and needed feature. crystals and drones are the biggest problems.contraband should be also included in this as it has the very same problem (ever got a booster/tags in cargohold of a ship you want to contract over??). afaik you can't even contract contraband in 0.0 where there's no concord behind your back.i don't see the problem with scamming as most of the time you'll be able to repair the stuff either at station (costs some) or by remote repairs in space (free). most of the time it's more important to get the stuff handed over than worrying about repairs."
"yeah, the status quo on this is stupid. list the damage, but allow it."
"i'd like to offer you a 4,000 dollar deal... please sign here.oh whats that? your suspicious? you want to read the paperwork?gee golly whiz... you just used something called common sense... drat... foiled again!all it takes is a few seconds to find out if your being scammed or not.laziness is not an excuse or an argument.scamming is a perfectly legitimate yet hated industry (if you can call it that) in this game.while i don't condone it... i honestly cant find a reason to shut it down either... except to point and laugh at the victims when they miss something so obvious."
"you are not familiar with the plight of amarrian gun users, or t2 miners. this is a pain and if you can't read, you should be spending less time playing eve and more time learning your language."
"a better solution to the problem:"
"yes for the love of all things holyi hate forgetting to unloaded the crystals before contracting a hulk"
"well, the 'scammer' doesn't get anything from you buying stuff thats deliberatly damaged, he gets the same isk that he would have got if it was in perfect condition, so other than a few 'griefers' using it, i doubt it would become a major problem.the contract system needs a good ui overhaul anyway. and it's really frustrating trying to sell faction/t2 crystals, damaged ships, ships with damaged drones inside etc. so yeah, as long as the damage on each item in the contract is visible, and maybe a nag window it would be great.supported."
"as long as the contract states that it is damaged, don't wanna buy a capital ship at 1% structure :b would be a dreadful scamsupported ^.^b"
"this, it's kinda like the cops. cop a is having a bad mood and your 11 over the limit lands you a ticket. cop b is having a good day and he over looks your 13 over the limit.gm a is tired at the end of his shift... the logs show nothinggm b is back after a weekend of partying and strippers, hey man, well look into that problem and get your ship back to you"
"i could give a **** about what he did over the weekend.what the cop should do is ask themselves: was he speeding or not.and for those of you who get pulled over for speeding and and think it's not fair. ask yourself: where you speeding, or not."
"i know there have been many suggestions and outcries about afk cloakers. i have not agreed with many of them as they are either to complex to implement and force the cloaker to work against a system (like having to hit random keys to stay cloaked) or too simple (such as them showing up on d-scan and normal probing them down.)a cloaked ship, should have some sort of player driven counter; something which another player can work against the cloak itself. i also believe the only totally safe place should be offline or in a station. otherwise the players should have to be aware of the game and react do dangers.to this i would like to see a battleship sized high slot module which could be used to deactivate any cloaked player in the system as if something had passed within 2,500 meters. the module should have a long activation time of like 5 minutes with the drawback of being unable to move, dock, or cloak (similar to cyno gens). additionally, only after the 5 minute cycle has completed, would a single pulse be sent out to deactivate all cloaks in a system as of the ship has come in close proximity of another object. it would be an instant effect; the cloaker could just reactive their cloak and remain hidden.this would allow for a tiny chance, during the de-cloak and re-cloak activation time, for someone to be seen or targeted. at the same time, because of the long duration until activation, it would require planning to use and could be easily seen coming.as for those who choose to cloak and go away from their keyboards for long durations, they would be put on the same field as all of the other pilots; where there is always a danger to be in space and not pay attention.in all i think this would allow for cloaked intel gathering with almost no risk, however, for the tenacious players it would give them the possibility of running out a permanently cloaked foe."
"cloaking devices deactivate automatically if your within 2,500 meters of any objects... including the infamous beacon bug.there is a cool down period of ?????? ( i don't know because i only use covert ops... it changed since apoc.. feel free to fill in the blank cloak buff's)if you can't target the ship in that time period... you got serious issues.blockade runners have a 5 second cool down afaik this applies to others as well who use cov ops.not supported.learn to play the game before you come up with suggestions.not this epic fail tripe you wrote up."
"my apologies for having mistyped the deactivation distance, i wasn't aware such a typographical mistake constituted as not knowing how to play. it has been corrected and i also clarified the sentence as it seems it might have confused some players. this is meant to have a solar system wide effect, not close range."
"i'm not to shure, but last time i took my trusted helios out on a flight <1 week ago, i could cloak up withing 2500m, but outside 2000 meters. not to shure how this allpies to normal not \"covert ops\" cloaks though.on topic. nay,there's no real reason to decloak other players unless they're at a gate. and with current eve economics, it's imo easier to just dd the hell out of a gate to see how many kills you have!"
"another try to solve a non existing problem?"
"to be honest this is the best idea of nerf cloak whine to date. but cloaks still don't need to be nerfed."
"the problem with this is when you are scanning out stuff while cloaked, you're not going to be paying too much attention to your cloak. if the pulse deactivates it, it might take a while for the scanner to realise this. also if someone is scouting he's all of a sudden going to get noticed, even though his cloak will be deactivated for only a short while... that is if i understand what you're saying correctly..not supported."
"again: nothing is broken. nothing needs to be fixed. no support."
"i like the idea, the best nerf cloaks idea i've seenhow about that module from op can only be fitted to black-ops, that would make sense.those ships need a bit of love as i see thingsit would make those modules rare and expensive to carry around so most of the non-broken cloaking mechanic would stay as is, but there would still be something you can do about cloakers.no support until my black-ops addendum to the idea is proposed"
"/supportedmaybe cap should be taken for the cloak modules, when ships are move in cloak."
"i would support a fuel requirement for cloaking (be it cap or something else) but not this.there is nothing in game that currently affects an entire system at one time - not even a ddd does that (to my knowledge - drake will correct me if i'm wrong i'm sure)."
"the only thing that \"affects systems\" on a major scale is a cynosuarial field being broadcasted... if you wana call it that.as for the op's snide statement.... nice ninja edit.... that was not a typo... that is a feeble attempt to fix something yet again for the billionth time that will never come to pass.stop fixing something that is meant to work the way it was intended."
"nerf local, that will fix the cloaking problem.make all local like wh local"
"unfortunately the macros would immediately be coded to counter this. the macro would merely look for the activation state of the cloak and re-enable it when it gets pulsed.the only possible counters are few that will not break the ability entirely.a) - limited classes of ships that can fit a cloak of any sort.this is the most logical and most easily coded, but would cause far too much uproar from... well... everyone.b) - cloaks only reduce sig rad, they don't make you 'invisible' except to overview.i.e. non-covert ops cloaks only reduce your signature radius substantially (by 85-99% depending on meta/tech) but you can still be scanned out. this will put a massive crimp in macro-ratters more than anything else. your afk annoyance/spy is in a cov-ops ship (frig, recon, or strat) and those would be totally undetectable still.black-ops would have to be re-coded to be likewise invisible while fitting a non-covert ops cloak (after all, no one wants these things to be able to warp while cloaked... nooo, no they don't...)"
"hm aren't you wondering why there are so many trying to fix it if there is really not a problem? and proposal not supported, i think it is a horrible idea, there are lots of better ideas for the cloaking problem."
"yes. they want to carebear risk free in 0.0."
"aren't you wondering why there are more threads on this topic than there is support for any of the threads? vocal minority is still the minority."
"i too, have a long term solution for solving the afk cloaker problem:remove local, you'll have no idea he's even there will you."
"this is just willfully obtuse. 0.01 is done because any other choice of a bump is just worse. it loses me more money, and it takes longer, since i have to change the middle digits, not just the last couple. i've never seen an argument against it that didn't just devolve into baseless tears. i don't 0.01 to hurt other people, i do it to get back on top of the market. who cares about everyone else? as long as they get in line behind me, they can do whatever they want."
"not supported.i don't want to sort through dozens of low volume faction, deadspace, and officer items jsut to find what i want. some market categories are cluttered enough as is, just imagine searching through a list of around 50 shield hardeners."
"\"redone\"?????they were never finished."
"yep.... they are fine.. they just need touchup.... if such a thing is possible with minmatar <hides duct tape>there are numerous broken \"shells\" on the ships.. places where the ship has a hole grapicaly speaking that shouldn't be there.take gander at the tail end of the maelstrom... right side... then the left side... you'll see a graphical defect there.:)"
"perfectionist much?"
"hey... the maelstrom is a thing of beauty.... and to see an hole in its... uhm..err...it's a bit distracting."
"was more so talking to the op"
"am not! i resem....nevermind..."
"vaga needs it's proper thukker \"square\" panels, like on the jag...."
"current situation: players are limited in which actions they can take on items located in a station they are not currently in - trashing, contracting, repackaging, and nothing else. proposed changes: allow any action that can normally be taken in-station to be taken remotely, so long as it doesn't involve moving items. specifically, merge/split stacks, repair, reprocess, moving items between different corp hangars or into and out of containers/cargo holds, and possibly insurance. benefits: better remote asset management. you won't have to go 80 jumps to repair an item for contracting, you won't have to fly 20 jumps to split a stack of 50 rigs so that you can sell 3 to a buddy, and you won't have to fly around reprocessing items you bought cheap on wide-range buy orders. drawbacks: possible issues with database load for remote container use. for other remote actions, none i can think of."
"supported emphatically."
"supported :)"
"+1a better solution to the \"i cant contract stuff with damage\""
"yes please!this should be rolled into a fix pack for the absolutely horrible assets window that includes being able to open a freaking container and see what's inside it."
"yeah, the container fix is probably the next one i'm going to propose."
"there is a work around for the containers you can just try to contract them and it will give you a warning about non empty containers which will tell you everything that is inside, its still annoying and needs fixed though."
"just don't cross into the realm of one click regional sell orders and the ability to remotely move items from personal hangers to corp or other person's hangers and i am all for it."
"change the damage control from active to passive.pros: ham sammiches would be easier to makecons: ghandi would be out of buisiness"
"just remember to turn it on next time, cheesecake."
"you know, sometimes stupid is funny.unfortunately this is not one of those times."
"and don't forget the fruit toppings."
"thanks for the free bumps flamers. no seriously, didn't ccp say that when the damage control was introduced they wanted it to be passive but for some reason due to bugs or something they had to make it active?can't they fix that now?"
"this would be useful as your op. it probably would have limited the flaming."
"locked. spam.spam sandvich > ham sandvich"
"supported. would be even nicer to build a repair step into the process if necessary and the station supports it."
"supported.also this is similar to moving items to a cargo container that aren't allowed stop at that item instead of just leaving them and moving the rest and letting the user know. this while even a smaller nuisance than repackaging would be nice to have fixed."
"incredibly annoying."
"thumb"
"as the title explains, i request the ability for two or more alliances to form a \"coalition\" which will allow for more advanced politics and territory battles. i believe this will make the eve universe an even more diverse and complex world but also allowing it easier for alliances to work together to accomplish goals as the blue setting system is far from perfect. in addition to coalitions, i believe allowing pvp pilots to recover implants from the corpses of their fallen victims as killing a ship is one thing, but also getting the pod is another and such achievements should be rewarded. - skitt"
"first off, you'll do better if you put unrelated ideas in separate threads. as for your ideas, can't say i'm a fan. alliances exist, game mechanically, mostly to hold sovereignty. why would coalitions exist? it's not like you'd have coalition wallets, coalition sovereignty, or anything else of that nature. this is the role of the standings system, not a new mechanic. re implants from corpses - why would computer chips come from dead bodies? i'm not a huge fan of the game mechanics around it(lp stores need to produce valuable things in quantity in order to avoid turning into a joke, implants are as good as any), but it doesn't even make rp sense that i can see."
"agreed with hersch.... you have 2 completely different proposals that are unrelated... they need to be in separate threads.1: coalitions already exist... eve is not the only form of communication... they don't need to be formalized... in all honesty the standings system needs to be overhauled... no more than that as far as that subject is concerned.2: implant recovery? no... there was an idea some time back about harvesting bodies for \"biomass\"well they have to get that crap from somewhere? i guess not.not supported on both counts."
"nah, whole point of fuel bays is to make ships able to do what they need to without being super-haulers. barges are supposed to be good haulers, and have cargo space to match. i like the proposed changes to crystals in other threads, to make them less of a pain to use, but they don't need their own storage space."
"no.... i don't want unused space to be taken up by the possibility if not bringing a set of crystals."
"you know you could make the whole insurance thing easier and fairer if you just allowed people to set a value and then charge a premium based on the requested amount modified by sec status and number of ships lost in say last month or something.so i can insure my ibis with a cargo of a covert ops cloak for 250,000,000 isk if i want to but it will cost me xyz isk per month until i cancel it or get blown up.ship losses will result in a x% increase in premiums which stay in place for say a month after the last loss.insurance only pays out if there was a kill right assigned so no concord payouts.the only issue i can't solve is the cheating opportunity of getting a mate to blow up your 1 billion issued ibis....any ideas ?-cj"
"i want to salvage implants from corpses, and have the ability for alliances to make offical coalitions, another step up from alliance. do it!"
"1) why? 2) why? 3) no. 4) this is not the forum you are looking for."
"1) fair enough2) ahahahh...what?.. so an even larger group of players can claim and even more disproportional part of the game map and effectively block more of the rest of us from 'your space'i say remove the alliance feature all together and ban any players that claim to control more than one constallation....that should allow some of the rest of us to actually see the other 50% of the game...-cj"
"1) that'd be fun!2) ack, coalitions ftw! make alliances and corps able to join a coaltion and add the means to share standings and configure pos to not aggress coalition members3) & 4) huh?"
"lots of new effects on other things, still no news on this"
"i feel that it would be good to start a discussion about this in an area where it might actually make a difference. since ccp has given the community a voice through the council, i would like to say to the council that i am strongly against console exclusivity for dust.it is important to note, i do play console games. i own both a ps3 and xbox 360, yet given the option i would always choose to play an fps on the pc over any console. a mouse an keyboard is simply better suited to that style of gameplay than a controller.\"k: what we have been asked by our readers is: why only make the game available for console and not for pc?ccp: shooter on a console are different as shooters on the pc. we want to concentrate on developing a good console shooter.\"they say that the issue is the need to focus on creating a good console experience. to counter this, i point to call of duty 4. this game is available for both the pc and consoles, and functions superbly on both. i own the game for pc, but some time ago had access to it strictly for xbox 360. it certainly played great, and i put my time in, but still, given the choice, i vastly prefer the game on my computer.beyond this, excluding dust players from alliance chat via ventrilo and teamspeak is a definite detriment.of course, no reason to exclude console gamers. i know a lot of people prefer that medium, so let them play! expanding the player base is not a bad thing, restricting it is!i hope this thread can be used to discuss the issue, and maybe, hopefully, get my way."
"i agree, i would love to play this game but am completely unwilling to buy a console for only one game. (i don't need to know about console games i don't like most of them so there is no point to argue that consoles have good games as i'm not saying that they don't)"
"agreed, console exclusivity for this type of game that has such a big impact on our gaming experience shouldn't be left just to the consoles.in fact, i believe the reserve should be said imho. the game should be a pc exclusive so that we pc gamers have control over our own fate in eve instead of having to worry about a lot of little kids playing the game(not saying that all console players are little kids, but a lot of them are eliteists. so why should a console eliteist help a pc gamer?)."
"console-only is pure bull****, and a stab in the back to the loyal pc gamers who have made eve so great. the lack of a keyboard and mouse sucks, the need to buy an expensive console just for one game sucks, and the inevitable death of the game once the next console comes out sucks. either release a pc version (and a good pc version, not just a low-quality port) or scrap the entire project.and if you absolutely must ignore the wishes of your customers and make it console-only, do not make it have any influence on the main eve game. the only thing more bull**** than a game we aren't able to play is a game we aren't able to play that can take away everything we've worked for in eve."
"i've never used a ps3 or xbox 360, but don't they have usb ports, and can't they support keyboards and mice? i'm fully in favour of them supporting that input scheme in dust, because a controller is the mouse's ******ed nephew for fps work, but as long as they do the choice of systems to be played on is sort of secondary to me. i'd prefer not to have to buy a console to play it, but from a point of view of game design, i'm cool with them doing whatever as long as the players can use mice.edit: i also don't understand the hate for console players being allowed to play alongside us. did you rip on ccp for letting the tofu-eaters play with us when they released a mac client, or the agoraphobes play on linux? and don't give me the \"we can't play it!\" nonsense - i can't play a 100-man fleet. hell, i can't even fly a punisher. does that mean that amarr is evil, and should be removed from the game? does that mean that gang sizes should be limited to what one person can multi-box? you build your alliances out of corps, now go build them out of corps and guilds. you can't play it, find someone who can and get them on board."
"you would need a mouse and keyboard that require no drivers what so ever for them to function on either system. there is a controller for the ps3 called the fragfx that kind of mimics a keyboard and mouse, but it's compatibility and usability are really low according to a few users i've talked to about it."
"the chance of them adding mouse support on a console is slim to none. if metal gear solid 4 didn't have the clout as a company to make it happen, something they claimed the game would have from the start, i seriously doubt ccp will.i honestly believe there is something going on with console developers that dictates that consoles can not use mouse and keyboard. call me crazy but why else would it not have happened yet?"
"agreed.also, shameless plug:"
"supported, not much more to say really. i think a pc version would be great."
"/signed.i really think soe dropped the ball on this one..."
"i don't agree with this because i want to be able to convince my wife into letting me buy a ps3 for christmas. however i do agree a keyboard and mouse is superior in fps games so if ccp can implement those into dust that would be greatly appreciated. fyi drivers for keyboards and mouses are pretty much standardised anyways so an implementation of such a thing may not be that difficult especially when we are talking about usb devices. and fyi what call of duty 4 does and what ccp does are two different things. if call of duty 4 decides to jump off a cliff do you think ccp will?"
"i must say i'm extremely dissappointed about this console exclusive release.i'm all for consoles having their own exclusive titles, but not when they are based on a pc title.with the development process being the way it is, i don't understand why pc can't at the very least cannot receive a direct port.not happy at all."
"simply stating that creating a game that plays well on both platforms is both doable and has been done."
"perhaps ccp is worried that people will play an eve client and a dust client at the same time on their computer, thus allowing one person to provide fleet support, and to be a ground troop at the same time. not that i'm saying they couldn't just have their tv near by and do the same thing. why are we talking about this instead of real questions like: can mercs just travel from planet to planet and conquer them on their own, or do they have to travel in the same eve universe via transport ships, and escape through gate camps just to get to a planet? that is what i'm most worried about. if they have to get through a fleet first before they get to a planet in order to take it over. also these planets under control of alliances will they be required to have troops on the planets to guard them at all times?"
"ccp know's people like to dual box, so i don't that is a very big issue. and for the movement of troops seeing how they where talking about being casual i'd think it safe to assume that it would like a jump clone insta-teleport thing. maybe the corp or alliance just produces empty clones and the players queue up to into them etc etc... teleport"
"i'm sure ccp are aware that they are excluding large numbers of people from buying the game with console requirement.they gotta have some really clever reason for it. did ccp share it with us in any interview? i'm sure it's one of the first things any interviewer would ask"
"k: what we have been asked by our readers is: why only make the game available for console and not for pc?ccp: shooter on a console are different as shooters on the pc. we want to concentrate on developing a good console shooter."
"well you see that would be bullcrap, i think they should have to escape fleets and physically transport the troops from planet to planet in order for this to be a more fair system. although i really have no room to talk because i know nothing on how the mechanics will really work in dust, and how they actually transport personnel from planet to planet will work."
"i'm also worried about whether if you have an eve account allready will you beable to play dust for free, or will you need to buy a totally new account. also if so would they provide a discount for those that do have eve accounts?"
"supported make sure you tick the little box that say you support this topic my guess is the csm and ccp use the supports column to sort what gets discussed and what is just people whining about nothing"
"i would appreciate the thread not be derailed. if you'd like to speculate, the general forums would be a better medium.this thread is for discussion on a specific, tangible issue.thanks guys."
"ahhh... was wondering when this would show up in assembly hall.pc vs. console tears... taste just as good as the rest.please stop speculating on something with so little information."
"it's nothing like that, they're just trying to tap into a new market. cool idea, if they can pull it off."
"ccp could get more profit as most eve players would buy it on pc."
"perhaps a ploy then with sony and microsoft to bring in sales for christmas time? maybe farfetched, don't see much a reason other than to stint the existing players of eve to run multiple accounts at the same time. perhaps they are gearing for the possibility of the next generation of consoles, and to bridge eve to those consoles eventually, and then getting rid of supporting them on computers?"
"1. dust2. ????3. profit!"
"so now you need a console to play eve (as both games are related and have mutual influence in the game world). just f*ck off sony and ms, ccp sellout lol.also: console games have a life span of ... how long? think about how well that will mix with a persistent world like eve-o.terrible idea ccp. fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu"
"that was me speculating, not factual. also i honestly think consoles can handle the graphics of eve online anyways, plus the fact they have the storage to run it, all you need is a keyboard and a mouse. so why not on a console?"
"i'm going to have to disagree. consoles offer several things over pcs:1) a stable platform that never changes - if ccp releases dust 514 only for the 360, for example, then ccp only needs to test their product on one platform - the 360. if they were to release a pc version, they would have to test on hundreds, if not thousands of combinations of hardware.2) consoles offer a more secure platform to operate on than pcs. ccp has realised that the pc is an insecure platform. to put it simply, they can not control the code that runs on your computer. if you want to run aimbots/hacking/cheating programs, there is little they can do to stop you without resorting to draconian drm which has limited effectiveness and causes stability issues. true - consoles can be modded. however, this is harder to do and costs money as compared to downloading a cheat program for free off the internet and installing it.aside from these two things, if ccp releases both a pc and a console version, the pc player will have a definite advantage over the console player, as the pc players has precise aiming and control with the use of the keyboard and mouse. the game will become fun for pc players, and not fun for console players, unless you segregate the two.on top of this, unless ccp already has a pc version planned, it will be excessively time consuming to port from the 360/ps3 to pc, due to fundamental differences of hardware architecture (not just the fact that the 360 uses the ppc instruction set while pcs use either x86 or amd64.)all in all, porting dust 514 to pc would be too expensive unless ccp has been planning to from the get go.not signed."
"and yet somehow countless companies (ccp included) manage to make pc games that work just fine.and somehow ccp manages to keep eve running relatively hack-free.too bad. sucks to be a console player, huh?and this is why it will suck on a console, as you admit, the mouse and keyboard is infinitely superior to a controller in fps games.then if it's so difficult they need to scrap the project, and use the art assets to produce a proper pc fps."
"ccp did just send out a report on banning macro accounts. macro accounts are run on computers which can run multiple accounts. this could be ccps answer to nerfing multiple accounts. this also would serve as a way to get rid of someone logging in an alt and leaving that alt to spy in a system all day long cloaked up. so you know we can say get rid of the speculation here, but instead of throwing a sh@t fit about this not being on the pc lets think about this."
"any more time consuming than porting between 360 and ps3? most certainly not.i also know quite a few console gamers who will say that pc has no advantage. i don't agree with them, but, well, they seem confident enough."
"this should not only be on the pc, it should be part of the eve subscription and part of the eve pc client."
"pc version pleasejust give the console peeps an exclusive weapon or something."
"in the documentary title: \"unholy rage\". ccp states this: \"the war against the rmt element continues. we strive towards driving their operating costs to unsustainable levels. our objective is to get rid of them, plain and simple. they are a heinous nuisance and a serious drawback on our systems and resources. credit card fraud and account hacking is their game - the recent hacking troubles have been the work of the isk sellers. they must be driven out and kept out.\"face it eve online is going to make a push for consoles. part of the reasoning is to make it too expensive for rmt's to operate, requiring multiple consoles to run multiple accounts would make such a thing too expensive to do. i applaud ccp for this. at least they are warning us now so that we can get our own shiny little console before christmas time when demand is high. :) here is the link to that document btw."
"the premise of dust 514 overall is fantastic and innovative.console exclusivity, however, is a terrible idea."
"just say no to..*infecting ccp with more microsoft ideals*taking options away from players*spending dev time on such a huge hit or miss ideacome on ccp.. dont slap us in the face with this.anything that makes an outside force the deciding factor in something like world control/system control/constellation control/region control is taking the power out of our hands.whats that players? you are a pc gamer who does not own a console because you have your superior pc (which is not left behind by the planned obsolescence cycle of manufactures)? well.. too bad. enjoy being worthless in capturing that planet then. i guess you have to trust in random xbl kiddies.or buy a 360station, buy the new game at new game prices, buy subscription for xbl and buy a subscription for new game at new game prices! and force your entire group/corp/alliance to do the same and then you can still have the fun of having your months of planning ruined by l33t kiddies."
"yep sounds about right. /emote calls wambulance."
"dust, should not only be available on pc, it should be available through our current subscription. eves major selling point is one server, no instances, freeform, sandbox play, with no further outlay of funds beyond subscription ie all expansions required for play are free. this idea in one phial swoop, urinates that all away. planets will become battlegrounds, not in a cool back lit epic cinematic way, but a lame a$$ world of snorecraft way. how, this does not equate directly to an instanced bg dictating the set up of the eve map is beyond me. i could get behind the idea of fps/rts, being tied to sov, would in fact even welcome it - but if i have to not only buy a new game, pay a new subscription, but also a new platform as well ??????. dust is fine, console only is fine, exluding me and other subscribers to eve from an important aspect of game play is just moronic. everything and i mean everything that eve has to crow about will be destroyed if dust goes live.ccp i beseech from the bowels of christ, whilst at the same time knowing i am wasting my breathe, rethink this idea."
"keep it on the consoles.if you've ever played on a console multiplayer service you'd know this market is filled to the brim with 12yos screaming that you aren't playing how they told you to.keep them on consoles, i don't wanna talk to em."
"if you're gunna provide a silly reason you could at least still give the thread a thumbs up. xdin all seriousness, if that is your reason, you can still opt not to play."
"i honestly don't even care if this new content is free or not. i do think, however, that it should not be console exclusive. i loathe the thought of some console knuckle draggers having direct influence in our game while we have to sit back and watch from a distance. i'm sorry but that is distasteful. i don't begrudge ccp to try something new to make money but not at our expense. make it a stand alone game for the console or you better damn well make sure that the pc players (you know, the ones paying your bills) have first dibs on this new content, especially since dust effects eve directly."
"unlike led zeppelin, this is going over like a lead balloon."
"you might just have to buy a console and intervene with these so called knuckle draggers then so that they don't influence your sov. it's that simple, or perhaps recruit some of them to protect your sov? there will be lots of options, being a lazy tard with your nose in the air wont get you anywhere tho, just lost sov."
"so what you are saying is you have so much disrequard to the existing player base that you condone exploitation of characters used via multiclient to macro mine the assets of the game only to be sold to cheaters? you condone alts being used as spies in cloaky ships in systems 23 hours a day? you are also saying yes to people hacking into the game and accounts. basically, you are saying you would rather debase the game this way just to prevent an alleged \"target audience\" money grab? got it."
"oh, yes.. lots of other deciding factors. wait, no. outside of throwing isk at them, this takes important gameplay elements out of our hands, us, the players."
"so the thought of throwing isk at mercs to protect your beloved planet never occured to you then..... got it. or the fact that you could recruit them into your alliance either didn't ring a bell....got it."
"ah, now i get it. you are acting foolish on purpose, because its hard to imagine such talent coming along by accident.reducing gameplay in this game, in eve:online, to \"throwing isk at mercs\" is a bad plan. \"recruit them into your alliance\" ah yes.. people who don't already play eve will sign up for it because of a game that is lightyears different in play.. got it.everyone wants 2 sets of fees to play two games, plus hardware, just to fulfill a function in one.. got it."
"i could deal with it if it was on pc, however ****ing over your players, by taking any of the control away from us over 0.0 sov and wanting us to purchase a completely different gaming system is ******ed"
"this.ccp is tard or what?"
"well i do believe it would be foolish to charge eve players with existing accounts to play dust, unless per say they introduced a discount to said players of like 5 dollars a month to play it. that would be a logical compromise. i agree they shouldn't charge for two accounts to play both eve and dust. using isk is a method of gameplay. look at trading. a simple form of pvp is just by being the highest bidder, and one who meets demand better. discounting the tactic of using isk as reducing gameplay instead of enhancing it, is what's foolish."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i would also like to point out that titans, and other capital ships, fleets, support ships and so on don't grow on trees. just in case you didn't know. it takes isk to put them all together, if you think of merc groups as a part of these assets you will understand how important it will be to be the highest bidder, or the one with the biggest army. down playing the tactic of throwing isk at a merc group is like saying you would rather be in your pod against a fleet of ships. same concept. it will just become another expense to those alliances/corps who want to keep sov, just like buying a pos, or a capitol ship."
"in ccp's case, no they have not.have you looked at the support forums? do you have any idea how much of a company's resources can be eaten up supporting the many configurations a pc can be in?then throw in the osx support....since this is probably a new engine it will require a whole new support chain... starting with console only probably makes the differnce between 'we can support this' and 'you are on your own but everyone will rage if we don't hold their hands through every single piece of hardware in existance'.and it costs them dearly.in order to run eve hack free, they have to do a lot of the computations server side and have lots of laggy communication between client and server. it is this 'relatively hack free' requirement that stops them from having dog fights and true ship control. if you can not trust the client, a lot of abilities go away."
"who the hell said anything about my sov? i don't have any to even worry about. my gripe is that players on another platform have the ability to influence our world. i wouldn't care if it was a console game based on planetary mining ffs. if content is being made for our universe that will, at some level, effect us then we should have a crack at it on our own platform. why the holy hell should i have to cough up money for more hardware to play something that should be on our platform? lets not even get into console shooter controls shall we? regardless, i'm more than willing to pay for it for christ's sake. i love the idea of what the ground war is and can do. i'm rather irritated that the players that have been keeping this game afloat are taking a back seat to these so called \"knuckle draggers\". this isn't about sov. this is the principle of telling the pc users they're not welcome to this content."
"this is entirely about sov, no more no less. that is the only impact they will have on the game. if you don't have sov then don't worry about it. no one said there wouldn't be a way for you in eve to impact their play style. in fact it hasn't been discussed yet, except for the fact that you can draw up a contract and hire the mercs. no one has discussed yet how they will arrive at a planet to invade, or whether support fleets can engage forces on a planet through space. also sure you could pick up a console, but that may not even be necessary. the use of your isk will be a controlling factor for these players. in fact it may be the only way they make isk who knows? i agree i hate using a controller for fps games. if ccp can find a way to integrate a keyboard, and a mouse while using a console i would be more proned to playing dust myself. either way getting your panties in a twist before knowing the full details makes you look silly."
"this is merely an advantage that i speak of. i never meant to indicate that it was impossible to develop for the pc as that would be a foolish statement.this is because eve online is nothing more than a dumb client, and the server does the vast majority of the computational work. all the player's computer does is draw some pretty pictures based on the information presented by the server. this is only possible because eve online does not require cpu intensive computations such as pixel perfect collision detection, ray tracing or handling a continuous flow of input. you will notice that space flight in eve is not directly controlled by the player. instead, the player issues commands, such as \"orbit\", \"approach\" or \"maintain distance\". input only happens once every few seconds or so. eve online is also a \"high latency\" game. the game is capable of working properly even if you have a ping of 1000-2000ms.this will not be possible in an fps, as fps's require lots of time consuming computations, such as the pixel perfect collision detection and ray tracing that i mentioned above. most fps's today do almost all of the games computations on the client, and then the client sends the results of the computations to the server, where the server puts it all together and sends the appropriate updates to the other clients. this is why games like team fortress 2 have problems with aimbots, wall hacks, speed hacks, invulnerability hacks, so on and so forth. all that is needed is a third party program to modify a couple of bytes in memory. while you can do these same things on a console, it is much harder to do so.this would be like saying wow is superior to eve because its ui is superior to eve's. in reality, it does not matter because everyone in eve has to play with the same ui so everyone must deal with the same limitations. the fact of the matter is that millions of people find console fps's to be fun - even though they are not on the pc. so long as everyone is on the same playing field, dust 514 will be fun. mind you, we can have the same problem with dust 514 suddenly being required to remain competitive in eve online, or vice versa. this is a bad thing, in my opinion. however, if ccp is careful, they can hopefully minimize this. scrapping the project would be a kin to throwing away millions of dollars, and thousands of man-hours. this would generally be considered a bad business decision."
"i like how some people here act like a usb mouse and keyboard isnt compatible with the ps3.supported anyway - i would like it for the pc, even though i have a ps3."
"i hope so, i wasn't just acting, i don't own a ps3 so i wouldn't know if you could hook up a keyboard or a mouse. i did know they had usb connections but that could be used for additional storage or a bunch of other things. although with 80-160gb's is alot of storage.....any ways if it can i'm game to just switching to a console for both eve and dust. :)"
"the main difficulty with that would be drivers for the mouse and keyboard. however, those should be simple enough that anyone who needed them could simply code them themselves. keyboards and mice are pretty standardized now that one driver should work for (almost) all of them."
"i must give my support to this topic. i am a poor uni student, and buying a console would constitute spending about 12% of my yearly paycheck, something i cant justify.i would very much like to see this implemented on pc, and if subscription based could perhaps be added onto my current sub like eve voice was once optional for another $5 or something?if it is implemented on consoles only, i would feel very alientated, since i could never afford to take part in what would become a very important part of eve.one of the things i like about eve is that there is nothing you cannot do. a caldari can fly gallente ships, a miner can turn to piracy. but if you split the game like this and then dont allow those of us who arnt ****ting money to get access to it, it goes very much against the spirit of the game."
"damn you ccp, letting mac players into our game! what's next, a linux client? have you no shame?"
"supported, i don't want to have to drop 300 dollars on a console to expand my eve experience. i don't really care for consoles anyway, i'd much rather play it on the pc."
"console exclusivity give us dust 514 for the pc, sod consoles"
"i'm on the fence here. on the one hand i can see why ccp didn't release it on the pc and on the other i would have liked to play it, as i refuse to buy a console.possible reasons for the console release:- console gamers don't read reviews, they buy on impulse, based on pretty adverts in the shops- consoles are easier to code for than pc's as there is only a set hardware and, thus, no compatibility issues- eve players can play the console game as well as the mmo at the same time, thus milking them off money- this is a way to reach out to a wide audience and, possibly, attract more players to evethe most important ones are probably the average intelligence of console game buyers and the fact that ccp would like to reach out to a wider audience and, thus, make more money. now i know we would all like to play the game but would a pc release detract from the game and draw people from eve to dust? that could be one reason why ccp haven't released it on the pc. to be honest i'm pretty happy with eve as it is, though i do like the idea of interracting with the planetary crowd, even if it's to bombard those fools with wave after wave of antimatter from my mega's railguns . guess who has the upper hand if this were possible? chribba can sit there and bombard the amarr planets all day long in his veldnought, so unfair"
"supported!"
"agreed."
"i don't own a console. i don't even own a tv. how much, ccp, do you expect me to pay to play this game?no thank you."
"ps3, same usb port. you can use a usb storage device to input drivers, or you can download them from internet directly on the ps3."
"make it available for pc/mac because there are tons of kids who would love to get in on the action but don't have the consoles to begin with."
"all thumbs up for making dust a pc release. supported."
"i agree, develop eve online for consoles!"
"i just hope all the interaction with this market of people is at arms length.really don't want to have to talk to console squeakers.if you've got a mate with xbox live, jump on, spend 10mins playing any game, you'll see what i mean."
"this obsessing about cheating is just stupid.first, the \"problem\" with cheating in a normal online fps is incredibly exaggerated. i've spent countless hours playing them online, and i very rarely encounter any cheaters (or if i do, they still suck so much that i win anyway). most of the time the only sign of the cheater is when they are automatically kicked with a \"banned for x hack\" message the moment they connect to the server. but besides that, there's a fundamental difference:a normal fps has countless individual servers. therefore cheating has minimal risk, even if you get caught, you've still got plenty of other servers to play on. the most any one server can do is ban you from that specific server, and there are some that don't even do that much. with one copy of the game, a cheater can pretty much cheat as long as they want and annoy as many people as they can until they finally get tired of cheating and either decide to play honestly or move on to a new game.dust will have a centralized server. or at least it will for all of the events that can have any effect on eve. this means that if you get caught cheating, say goodbye to your account, you'll have to buy a new copy of the game to play again. and a combination of an automated cheat detection system and a \"report to admin\" feature (and they will have to have this no matter what system they release it on, as cheating on a console is merely more difficult, not impossible) means that you will get caught. how many people do you think are going to spend $50 every day just to keep cheating in an online fps when there are so many other games to cheat in that don't have this feature?"
"i wonder how they're going to work that.there is no way possible to play an fps from australia on an overseas server.anyone enjoy playing a game based on reaction time and accuracy while being half a second behind the other players?"
"i am very worried about the fact that dust gameplay will have a direct impact on the landscape of eve. i understand the logistical reasons for making a fps for the console only. ccp will make more money, plain and simple. and i guess i understand the connectivity in some sense with the eve world (maybe eve customers will staddle the fence and spend money on both eve and dust, while still attracting an entirely new player base). sovereignty though seems to be an insane tie in.my question is this. why are the players of eve being, in a very direct way, taken out of the equation in terms of controlling space we inhabit.yes ccp has stated that fleet warfare will still play a part in the role of sovereignty, but it makes no sense to link such an important part of what makes eve special, to an entirely different player base than those flying the ships and truly inhabiting the space (we were here first!).the main thrust of my point however is that instead of making a clever add on that could impact players in a tertiary way (i.e. hiring an entity in dust to steal isk directly from an entity in eve, or using an entity in dust to transport consumables through the universe of eve fighting along the way) they are implementing a system that will require a new game, in another medium, to not only be successful but also require players of this new system to care about the subtle power plays that happen in the eve world.mainly though, this is taking a major portion of the \"ownership\" feeling that eve fosters and giving it to a group who, in a direct sense, have nothing to do with eve. i am all for expanding the ways that we can play eve, but i want to be directly part of it. i don't want to hire a group that may or may not be good at what they do, and hinge the space that i fight for and inhabit (and fill with very expensive things that take very real time and energy to acquire) upon them.even if the dust players require some sort of major support from eve fleets for movement or funding or whatnot, it still begs the question, why is our sovereignty going to be affected (in any way at all) by a different game?"
"what are you doing on this server, i don't like you. get out of my player-base."
"easy, you host the game itself on a local server, but you have a centralized server to keep all the stats/accounts/etc and exchange information with eve. when you join the local server, it pulls your stats/etc from the central server (just a one-time thing) and verifies your account status. get your account banned for cheating and you might be able to play on a lan or something, but you sure as hell won't be joining any official games or having any influence on eve."
"i kinda doubt ccp would be setting up geolocated servers.... so they'd likely have to be 3rd party.... which would be a nightmare to manage and keep the data legit.... which likely means it'll all be on a central server cluster somewhere?with maybe, mirrors in major markets....australia not being a major market i'd hazard a guess that we'll miss out."
"get out of your player base? why don't you take your infantile response and deposit it where sunshine will not reach. while you're there, why don't you find something constructive to say instead of trolling."
"yes i support this.i woudld go even further and ask for dust514 integration in eve online thru wis.eve online players keep paying something like 15 / month and console players that can only play dust514 and wis pay somthing like 8 / month"
"anywhere an statement from ccp to the community bc everything they promised us in the past is given to the consoleits a stab in the back is the way i think about it"
"if it quacks like a hypocrite, walks like a hypocrite and looks like a hypocrite....if you so burn for keeping console players out of this wonderful world of ours called eve, perhaps you should reevaluate your reasons for being here. first they go for the console player, and no one complains because we don't like them. then they go for the linux players, and no one complains..."
"pc > console, having bought two which idle in a cupboard now way i'm buying another to play, wtf is wrong with making a pc version?"
"dispite this probably being a troll attempt, i cannot resist feeding...as said before, a console vs pc argument is entirely different from one flavour pc vs another. a mac/linux player also has a mouse and keyboard, and has the same advantages and difficulties as a windows player. a console player is stuck with either a controller or very limited keyboard and mouse support. on top of that, this console game is an external factor. all of a sudden an external factor you have no control over can severely limit what you can do in a sandbox game. this is pretty much contrary to the very foundations on which eve is built. if you can't see how this is a bad idea...making this non exclusive is a first step, so supported."
"pc or death!"
"i don't have an issue with it. development time on console is often shorter since much of the work has been done before you.if ccp were wise they would liscence engine software and instead just worry about filling the content./..hint hint...frostbite ccp"
"pc or death!"
"this thread is producing an epic river of tears.get over it."
"/signedplease give us a pc client of dust 514 ccp. many of us have been loyal to you for years, don't forget about us. personally i do not care for consoles and hate fps on consoles."
"pc all the way"
"/signed"
"not much to discuss. i hope ccp comes clean at the fanfest that a pc version is in parallel development. there is no way i would use a 'gamepad' controller."
"pc gaming over console any day. no exclusives!"
"/ signed"
"first, fps games are much better with mouse controlsecond, while it's good to expand target audience to console players, there's no good reason to exclude pc audience. ccp wants to make money, right? why would the purposefully deny themselves 100,000~ sales? there's gotta be something tricky going on."
"/signedi've been playing eve for almost 4 years now (on and off) mostly off, but i have pretty much a one year sub that until now i had no plans of ever cancelling. frankly, if they deny pc users access to dust514, an fps, given that the fps genre began on the pc and is still the medium in which the controls permit you to excel at (no console controller can replace keyboard mouse for shooters), i will for the first time in a long while cancel my account, possibly completely backlash against ccp for such an absurd move."
"i'm all about bringing this to the pc. only problem i could forsee is the use of cheats which is easily countered by using steam as the distribution and play method, or make it a true mmo/fps with regular updates and support to counter hacks and cheats.not bringing this to the pc is a mistake. you could update the game on a regular basis with weapons, mods, all sorts of nifty tools, power suits or mechs, the possibilities are endless and ccp is selling themselves short. there is a severe lack of good mmo/fps on the pc. planetside was fun while it lasted but got stale and repetitive even though they tried to keep it fresh their efforts were half hearted at best...typical soe. there is a very large market out there waiting to be tapped and ccp will miss the mark if they don't develop and implement this part of the eve universe properly. bring this to the pc as an mmo or an addition to eve(although that would be pretty hard to do), but don't let it go to consoles only where it will wither and die in 6 months or more when the next big shooter for consoles arrives, with the exception of a few diehard players.this has a lot of potential ccp the community has been asking for something like this for a long time. terra firma battles have been speculated about for years and years. then you go and anounce it for consoles...what were you thinking? don't **** this away ccp. i hate to see a great developmental idea get flushed because console gamers get bored with it in a few months."
"the vac system tends to be a little intrusive into the server aspect of the game... i'm not sure ccp would be willing to allow that.but its a valid point none-the-less.and i know for a fact that the vac is very effective."
"i know they released eve on steam, however i'm unaware if it uses the vac system also or not. anyone??........"
"/signed"
"hahahahhahahahhhhhahahahhahahahahah!!!!!!!!!!!!!!omg the tears, the tears!!!!get over it pc *****s, all this crying is truely pathetic"
"your idiocy... frightening. notice where i mention other areas that could have tied dust into eve? i do not want to keep the console gaming community out. i just don't want them to have an impact on something as huge as sovereignty. can anyone here honestly tell me that they are fine with an entirely different game controlling, even in a small fashion, the sovereignty in eve?please get off your high horse and turning this issue into something it is not. i actually think the idea of blending two different games into one persistent universe is awesome. i just don't want to see things taken away from eve players, and especially not something as gameplay-influential as sovereignty."
"matt damon!"
"and for cheat thing bf has punk buster steam has vac etcso it cant be a problem.. and also u can make a flagged acc thing just flag that \"game key\" as a cheater so no more problem for ya.. till that bstrd decide to buy another \"key\""
"i don't like the console idea simply for the reason that some other people have mentioned. i'm not a console person, never have been. i still have a ps2 that collects dust. (no pun intended)i would like to see it made available for both systems."
"no it does mot... you would see an indicator or logo of some kind.vac requires going through valve's network in some form or fashion."
"change the colour of the afterburner icon so its different from the mwd'sbasically the same as the change in the icon for warp scrams/dissysonce the icons were subtly different it became easier to find the module you wanted.just think it would be good to apply the warp scram/dissy logic to afterburner/mwd as well.subtly different icons to make the one your looking for easier to find."
"supporting this"
"um.why is this an issue?"
"red paint makes ships go faster!errr.... (with apologies to warhammer online)i don't see the problem.. i've never confused the 2... why is this an issue again?"
"not an issue, which is why i didnt put [issue] in the title, just small improvement to make selecting modules easier."
"i'm going to have to go with no on this.if you lack the situational awareness of your own ship to know which module you're clicking on, you may want to consider a change of venue."
"i was refering to ship fitting and icons in hangar/containers."
"it'd be nice for sorting stuff in hangars."
"obvious bad colour is obvious. red iz good colour, cuz red wunz go fazta!"
"some differentiation would be nice"
"only if its pink and purple."
"this thread has gone quite far but i think most people forget something very important:since a few years most patches were pro blob and against small-scale warfare. a change is urgently needed.i dont see how any of the proposed changes are gonna improve the situation."
"these changes are geared more towards sup cap fixes than they are about blobs.that said, dd today do not solve the blobbing problem, they're just as effective for the blobbers as they are for the blobbies. the proposed change removes the stupid pro dd idea for fleets and replaces it with a pro fleet approach. for every one instance today where not having a fleet cost a titan, there are 100s of instances where that's just not true. and that's the inherent problem. the change listed provides chances for strategy, tactic, and counter tactic to titans that isn't so cut and dry as avoid or don't avoid and tank x amt of dmg. it will also change the role of all warfare, not just sub capital warfare, while helping to usher in the age of t3 equipment and ships in mass.as for the mothership changes, beyond extra hp, i really couldn't care about them. i personally feel carriers and moms are all wrong in their implementation in game atm. they are single handedly the most over powered and underpowered tool in game atm. it really takes flying them and commanding them to understand that sentiment. my hope is that even if they are not fixed soon, the changes to sov will be properly implemented which should expose carrier platforms for the frauds they are."
"/supportedbut the 0.0 coward carebears always dont wanna changes this cloaking crap.they wanna more benefits for cloakers like localchat nerf.nobody would be discover them on local. long times ago the ccp removed them in games when thet dont move their ship under 30 minutes, but the 0.0 noobs were crying too much and the developers removed this opportunity from the game. 30 mins or 1 hour or 2 hour nvm."
"/supportedbut everone know. this cloaking rules will not change, because the most of csm members just insignificant 0.0 chessmen, who got their positions,the 0.0 alliances made it compulsory for their members to vote for them.so ... csm , only the 0.0 the embodiment of interests."
"so you want some one to improve your situation for you because you are to lazy to improve it your self?you picked the alliance mates, find another group of idiots."
"qft"
"[issue/idea] misson rewards rebalancing"
"(even more valid given recent developments)the announcement of dust 514 has created a lot of heated discussion on both sides of the fence. clearly, there is no middle ground in this debate, nor does this proposal attempt to force one. whether one is for or against dust 514, there can be no escaping what it represents.dust 514 is a paradigm shift in the endgame of eve online, and will change everything.as no amount of petitioning, whining or other acts of textarea can serve to dissuade ccp from releasing dust 514 as developed, the spotlight must fall onto those individuals who choose to represent the interests of the playerbase. the csm.many questions remain as to the role of the csm in this affair. it is the purpose of the csm to gather player concerns and suggestions regarding all aspects of gameplay, from the new player experience to the endgame. it is clear that the announcement and subsequent release of dust 514, having such far reaching effects on eve, must have been discussed within the csm. the question is; were the csm aware of dust 514 before the rest of us, or not?if the csm were complicit in the knowledge of dust 514, then any work performed by them is tainted. if this were the case, they are keeping important information from the very people they are sworn to represent. what is the purpose of raising concerns if the conduit through which they are delivered knows of future developments that render these same concerns meaningless?thus, they cannot be trusted to best represent the issues of the playerbase, instead basking in their position of secret privilege. non disclosure agreements aside, inside knowledge such as this can and will be used to the advantage of the csm and their alliances. a common theme in the history of eve, as t20 and band of brothers reloaded will testify.if the csm were not complicit in the knowledge of dust 514, then ccp are not equipping them with the information they need to perform their roles. if such a game-changing development were held secret for three years, then what other secrets are being kept from our elected representatives? how can our issues be adequately represented if sweeping changes are to come without warning?thus, they cannot adequately represent the issues of the playerbase, and become no more than figureheads with as much influence in the direction of eve as the star wars galaxies senate had on their ruined game.either way, the csm has failed to serve the mandated purpose - that of providing a trustworthy conduit between the players and ccp. as with dust 514, there is no middle ground. either the players cannot trust the csm, or the csm cannot trust ccp.this is not the much vaunted 'first digital democracy' that ccp would like to boast to the media. it is a sham, tainted by the undeniable truth of deception.which leads to the inevitable conlcusion that the csm should and must be disbanded at the end of the current tenure.as those who seek power are invariably least fit to wield it, clinging to their privilege like all good firsts among equals, the onus falls on us to ensure this power is dissolved. we the players must steadfastly refuse to vote in the next csm election. without the will of the people behind it, the csm will crumble, as it would fail to serve its pr purpose.continued"
"as an alternative to the little good that the csm have provided the playerbase, i suggest a more direct method of ensuring our concerns are heard. we already have a tool available to 'vote' for particular posts in the assembly hall forum. i suggest that a fortnightly q&a session be raised, with a different developer each time, responding to the top 'n' posts in the forum relating to their own development discipline. as the next developer will be announced in advance, this will ensure that those with a vested interest in having their concerns heard will promote the posts that best express them.these sessions must be uncut and unfiltered, as the pr whitewash that was the previous csm-approved q&a still contradicts ccps supposed stance on transparency and accountability.if ccp can bankroll an entire skunkworks project team for three years, then they can afford to take a developer off work for a day every fortnight to prepare these responses. it would definitely prove cheaper than shipping their puppets to iceland every couple of months.this is not to diminish the individuals who have worked hard to make the csm the best it can be, nor to cast blame on (for example) jade constantine's excellent write up on planetary colonization. (now rendered worthless, as it is incompatible with twitch fps gameplay.) it is most likely that they were just as much in the dark as the rest of us, and have been equally played for fools.in closing, we salute those who tried their best to bridge the gap between ccp and their customers. but it is time to move aside.if dust 514 has proved one thing, it is that change is inevitable and should be embraced.we need action. we need change. and we need it now."
"it's called a non-disclousre agreement you dumbass.assuming they even knew in the first place... assuming they even had any possiblity (which they don't) in making anything change.ccp is in charge.. we are not.got it? get it? good.now quit already while your ahead."
"reach forwardturn the monitor offpress the power button on your pcstand upwalk to your front dooropen itstep outsidelook aroundrepeat as necessary.. doctors orders"
"its a known fact that the csm has no influence in whatever ccp decides.they sold their playerbase out to microsoft and sony as a lot of companies did before them.a lot of players play this game for years and payed for it,in return they get this !!!instead of using the money we pay to make a better game ,its going to a platform a lot of them don,t even own(yes,including me).csm can,t be accounted for this,only ccpccp did the backstab,nobodyelsesorry for my bad english"
"i smell a failed bid for a csm position..."
"lol no not me ,in that position hehehehe"
"this thread needs to be locked. it's not a matter for the csm in the first place."
"agreed. no need to watch the **** storm this will start.there will be plenty of others."
"too quote gabe newell from half-life 2 raising the bar;\"one of the unique characteristics of games as a medium is that you have to create it in cooperation with the audience.\"if you want evidence of this, you simply need look no further than classic events such as the stars wars galaxies nge and combat revamp, ultima online's renaissance and age of shadows (especially the latter) and the recent performance of warhammer online: age of reckoning and age of conan: hyborean adventure."
"and how does this help any?or are you just complaining to be complaining like this fail thread."
"cool story, bro."
"all we have is a vague paragraph or two that say sovereignty will somehow be tied to a mmofps console game and everybody is freaking out. we don't know how or to what extent it is linked. i support locking this thread.anybody who wants to quit because of a press release can contract me their goodies."
"bump for effect"
"at that range they will just about turn and warp off.edit: bad spelling"
"hello csm, i heard ccp don't read the forums, ever, so i bring to your attention a gem that's cropped up in features & ideas.the issue of supercaps and pilot imprisonmentplease add this to whatever you do and try to ensure it's discussed and implemented in some form/signed everyone in that thread + meplease sign again for emphasis. i don't know if this will work but i'm giving it a shot"
"altbump edit: how do i get the thumbs. oh look there's the button right there"
"go make a parking alt or just fly a new char.not supported"
"you've identified the issue, but obviously not read the whole solution discussion going on right now in the thread linked in the op.re-read and support, it's something that should've been in the game on release"
"/signed"
"training for them takes long enough as it is, but you also have to dedicate an entire alt to it just so you can keep playing eve? you shouldn't have to. supported."
"absolutly supported. this should have been implemented on deployment of the supercaps if they did not want to have them undocking and looking stupid. not the crazy idea of forcing your log time customers to start another account. i know accounts make you money but come on we have been here long enough."
"supported 100%"
"i'm no supercap pilot, but isn't this what capital ship maintenance arrays are for? they're a module designed specifically for the purposes of parking your moms and titans in, and they're quite usable for the purpose. yeah, they need to be prepared, and you need to be sovereign, but is that really a bad thing?"
"supported 100%. nerf the blob and give the rewards to those players willing to fly smart."
"it's not eft, it's a calculator. the npc ship database i've found shows resistances, and a simple comparison of 1.15/(100-em resist) to 1.6/(100-therm resist) will always show the ogre winning against any npc i've ever looked at. maybe if you got a hypothetical mission with nothing but crazy sansha hacs, you could conceivably have em drones winning, but there is no real mission like that. the show info doesn't show structure hp. use the compare tool - praetor ii has 806 structure hp, ogre ii has 1421. the difference is significant. and you neglect to mention the \"40% less dps\" thing. i see it as balanced because that's a highly artificial scenario. a carrier that isn't killing you, has one smartbomb as a defense and nothing else, and whose primary defense is a buffer(because your dps is far lower, it's only aggregate damage you win on). and you're stuck with 125m3 of praetor drones in your hold for when you run into something that isn't a smartbomb carrier, instead of having useful drones like ogres. to be honest, they wouldn't be good after the change - they suck now because they do ****ty dps, they'll suck afterwards because they'll still do ****ty dps. i just want them to have a role - a bad one perhaps, but at least an existent one. as it is, they could remove acolyte/infiltrator/praetor drones from the game entirely, and i'd call it a positive change, because it'd prevent people from being crazy enough to use them. after this change, i still wouldn't use them, but i'd feel less of an urge to mock people who do, and i'll actually be willing to accept arguments about why they might be good in a particular circumstance."
"believe it or not, i've actually killed a few people while using praetor iis (yes, i was crazy enough to train amarr spec iv). unfortunately, the only use for them is against shield tankers who have completely neglected their em hole (this guy, e.g.)... but other than that, their low damage modifier makes them utterly useless, and hence, i support their buff (though again, not quite the extent hersch is suggesting)"
"give them a reason to be purchased other then reprocessing."
"agreed in general. not sure about 4-6x hp bonus but certainly 3x is possible. alternatively, balancing speed vs damage mod would be a good method. gallante are the highest damage dealers but the slowest. the fastest are minmatar and are second highest damage. that leaves caldari and amarr drones rather lacking. should be a more direct progression i think. gallante highest damage but slowest, caldari 2nd slowest but second highest damage, amarr with 2nd worst damage but 2nd highest speed and minmatar with best speed and worst damage."
"err uhhh... since when are minmatar drones 2nd highest damage?"
"herschel, let's see if i can explain myself sounding less antagonistic, as i am not against a buff for amarr drones, but i find a x4-6 increase in hit point really excessive.true, amarr drones have 30% less damage, but again we should decide against what we need to balance: npc or players?against players the choice will be always top damager or fastest, so unless you want to increase damage or speed beyond all other drones of the same class they will not be picked. against npc it is another matter.what matter are the target resistances. to me what tis important is killing my primary targets, the other stuff is secondary. there we have 2 class of important targets: neutralizing towers and high resit ship, especially those that use scramble, web or use ewar.- neutralizing towers have shields with 0% em resist and 20% thermic resist. that is a 25% increase in damage and, while i can't find the data in the database you linked, those towers have a lot of shield hp (i have recently done some level 5 missions and the amarr drones were doing much more damage than the gallente);- against top orders npc targets of the right kind the difference between thermic and em reist is 14-4%, but the resists are 78-79 thermic and 64-74 em. a difference between 64 and 78% resist is a 63% increase, between 74 and 78 a 18%, between 74 and 79 a 24% increase, between 72 and 79 a 33% increase, all that while you have a decent increase in speed and a real but hardly significant loss in hp (when your drones are targeted by a horde of npc they generally die or the damage become insignificant as you are recalling them and speed become much more important for survival). then there is a matter about the drones that will be introduced with apo 1.5. they will have x2 hit point and better tracking, but for that ccp feel the need to reduce damage by a 10%. weight that against a x4-6 increase in hp.caldari and amarr drones getting some buff? sure.a x4-6 increase in hp? no. i have no idea what would be a reasonable buff, but generally it seem that ccp feel that drones are already doing too much damage as every \"special\" model (augmented, improved, the new faction drones) has his damage reduced in some way (in my eyes the split damage of the augmented and improved is a way to reduce damage). better tracking?second fastest and second damage as someone suggested? (but then where it leave caldari?)about your artificial example. when you make an example you need to use the equivalent units for all the races. comparing t2 drones with t1 why \"no one will train for the t2\" reduce the example value. after your buff people would train for the heavy amarr drones."
"so for those towers, gallente does 1.6*0.8 = 1.28 effective multiplier, whereas amarr does 1.15*1 = 1.15 effective multiplier. gallente still wins, pretty handily.for those npcs, the best resistance set i can find for your argument is some centum loyals with 72% em and 79% therm - gallente does 1.6*0.21 = 0.336, amarr does 1.15*0.28 = 0.322, and gallente still wins by 4%. and it's not like those are the only things you have to kill in any given mission, even if they are the most annoying. if you can find an npc with 64% em and 78% therm, then i'll agree that amarr are better against them, but i've found no such npc when i was looking.it's not a matter of ccp feeling that the drones are doing \"too much\" damage, it's a matter of them not wanting to make using the new drones automatic. if faction drones has 2x hp, better tracking, and the same raw dps as t2, everyone would be pushing towards using faction and ignoring t2, which would be kind of silly. they're trying to make you trade off in your drone choices, which is similar to my proposal. damage, speed, hp, or being decent at all three - which do you prefer? i just want that third choice to exist, and i can't think of any way to get there from here other than a hp boost.also, speed and hp are both good at surviving drone aggro. getting back sooner or surviving longer do similar things. besides, amarr are fairly fast. i put the numbers for t2 in right after t1. dude was saying my change wouldn't do anything, i pointed out that even t1 amarr would be be better than t2 gallente at the designed role. it's a narrow role, of course, so i'm fine with that, but i was showing that it would be a functional buff to that role."
"its not like amarr depend on drones and trive to make them good.its like demanding that kia or hyndai be as good as bmw.if you want the best specialize in gallente drones and pay with skill training time.not supported."
"so what you're saying is that the second-best drone race(see: arbitrator, curse, pilgrim) should have the worst drones, and that people should \"pay\" for using the good ones, by training a skill that takes exactly as long and has exactly the same requisites as the skill for the bad ones?"
"from my observation, the amarr are third in terms of drone use after gallente and minmatar.regardless, any change that would improve the amarr light, medium and heavy drones would be a good one. i have almost 7 million skill points in the drone tree. i have gallente, minmatar, and caldari drone spec each to level 4. i dont even have the amarr drone spec installed. why? the amarr light, medium and heavy drones are completely worthless to me, and neither the curator ii or templar require a single level of the skill to use. i've never had any reason to train it.their damage could use a little look at, but i agree that as an amarr construct, they should be able to at least take a beating.supporting this because, again, pretty much any change in the amarr light, medium and heavy drones would be a positive one."
"an even worse form of the lottery. just *no*if you want to buy a t2 bpo. earn the money. buy one. it is as simple as that."
"the t2 bpo lottery sucked because it was chance based.invention (esp on ships) sucks because it is chanced based.if any solution for introducing new t2 bpos into the game is going to not suck, it should not be chance based."
"if invention is meaningfully chance-based, you're doing it wrong. invent within your budget, and regression to the mean is your friend. if a few successes or failures is what will make or break you, you're too close to the edge, back off and try again."
"if this is right (i have some doubt):the solution is fairly simple without need for absurd positive me levels from invention, simply remove the negative pe levels, making invention baseline value for pe 0. invention has already a time sink in the invention part of the process, so it can be removed in the build part. my opinion is that it will only further reduce the margins for inventors without increasing the selection of invented items, but it can be worth a try."
"companies licence out technology all the time.this is the equivelent of selling production rights.its rp breaking that while t1 stuff bpo's can be purchased t2 bpo's cant.t3 bpo's should be available also, leaving production component aquisition as the player contributed requirement."
"i highlighted and underlined the most important part that you conveniently ignored yet still quoted.just because the material efficiency is not a great benefit does not mean it shouldn't be improved. much like one feather is insignificant but when you have enough, its a nice mattress. so it is for one small change amongst many, they stack up.still i personally believe that if people invented bpc's that came with more runs in them, their profit would go up nicely. as it should.and if you make the me to be a positive, then as you say ship production will benefit, but more importantly, its one less thing people can complain about when it comes to invention v's t2 bpo's."
"here here!!!!qft!"
"wow, waste of a thread. peeps gotta use alt, only way to make it. and guess what, alt makers can make more free trial accts in 5 min than there are koreans to pile into runescape."
"no"
"allow me to support this proposal. well me and my alts."
"yeah. nail em all!"
"death to the alts!"
"this proposition is full of fail. people need to buy extra accounts for meaningfull alts anyhow, all they get now is either simple scouts or marketprice checkers, or they have to give up training on their main.not supported, op is trolling."
"alts allow players to bypass consequences to their actions.while there probably isn't much that can be realistically done, i wouldn't mind one char per person."
"post with your main. and not supported."
"there are times i'm very glad for term limits."
"are you confusing alts and jump clones?and not supported"
"get rid of mains! they always trying to keep a brother alt down"
"here here.... would mean you'd have to really decide if you wanted to have that -10 status and rely on someone being able to create a lowsec market for you to buy your stuff at since you don't have an alt to ferry it out to you.even better idea 1 account logged in per ip address. no more multi-boxing."
"and limits on re-election."
"i suggest that since eve is getting more and more people joining and being active in eve, it would only make sense that the recruitment forums be further divided to organize the morass it has become. break it down into \"alliance recruitment\", \"corporation recruitment\", and \"pilots looking for recruitment\" or something on those lines."
"pvp - wardecced basedpvp - pirate based low secpvp - 0.0 basedpveminingrattingstory based corps0.0 - alround pvp, pve, etc... (shadow xdeathx)haulingmiscbroken down to roles so it would be easyer to surf around what your looking to do.there also should a template of what ads should be."
"if ccp had a civilized set of forums, these would all be subforums hanging off the main. dark's list is excessive, but the principle is one i like."
"darks list would not work.some corporations are multi-role as it is.but a simple division suggested by the op would be fine.supported."
"i agree something needs to change. the recruitment forum is, to be charitable, useless."
"today even a small 0.0 alliance can replace their cap looses quite fast. its because capitals are cheap! yes, even if your corp or alliance doesnt have a nice moon. whip-round among corp mates + some work of few people and you can produce your own titan. from some time to time we see battles where 100+ capitals died. after a week, few days, or even few houts, those capsuleers have new fancy dreads and carriers and everything start over again.today a non capital, non faction tech2 marauder hull have worth of well fitted carrier, and fitted marauder have higher value than fitted dreadnought. blackops hull have same price as carriers hull. not mentioning that they are quite popular today, people like to rat in a marauder, pew pew using their b-o, all this in a ship of around 1/20 of cap eff hp. and even if they loose their fancy ships, few days x few hours spending on asteroid belt, and here it is again.not mentioning that this game turned into \"who will dd more roaming gangs today\" and solution for this isnt only in terms of buiding new titans.solution (or more like first strong step):offensive oriented capitals are to cheap in general (well maybe except motherships). people, corprations, alliances living in 0.0, have too much money today. but even without moons or just good systems on map, its a matter of corp tax or organizing an op from some time to time. increasing amount of cap component needs for carriers, dreadnoughts, titans by 100% will result in better isk sink (and more logistics job), in addition to increasing manufacturing time for those ships by 100%.today carrier/dreadnought in a pos have build time less than 10 days, titan 47 days. this is one of the causes why everyone have plenty of them and for example dreadnought is more like a battleship today, not some kind of ultimate siege weapon like year or two ago."
"im supporting this"
"why is it a bad thing that people can play with ships that they like playing with? it's not like they're cheap - a fitted carrier costs north of a billion, which is like 20-30 hours of 0.0 mining or 40 hours of highsec missioning - but the fact that they can fly them without obscene difficulty is a good thing. and besides, spaceholding alliances are there because they tend to be pretty hardcore. if you're willing to spend tens of billions pos spamming a single system, you're willing to eat a cost increase to your carriers and just keep pumping them out. hardcore players will always do what they need to do to be successful. serious alliances will never run out of dreadnoughts until the day they failure cascade, no matter what they cost."
"not supported for pretty much the reasons hersch outlined.also, since when does a marauder cost the same fully fitted as a dread? xd"
"either your filthy rich or your seriously tripping out on space crack.not supported."
"well it's not. its just that isk lost his value, in the past, with 10 dreadnoughts and small t2 support you could take entire region. today with 10 caps in fleet you are asking yourself if its wise to kill single enemy pos without bigger cap fleet on stand bay ready for counter-drop.i remember when there was maybe 3 titans in game and that was really something! today we have around 220 titans, with few naps you can have a friendly titan per each of your system even if you are controlling entire region. its because titans are cheap and quite easy to build if ya know how to do it and many people do. one person with trade alt in jita buying large tech1 turrets (tachs, 425mm, 1400mm, 100mn mwd have good mineral compression also and ofc some other stuff), around 35k units of turrets total, its six jf's if i remember correctly so no big deal. when you move it to 0.0, reprocess in minmatar outpost (its good to have lvl1 reprocessing upgrade because without it you need scrap metal to 5 and h60 implant and even then you have around 99.2% if im not mistaken. then you calling 2-3 of your friends with freighters to move minerals to pos where you build cap parts and then a ship (or if you have amarr outpost in other system cause he have better bonus to produce cap parts) but still you need to take them to pos afterwards. three weeks later (using few of your production alts) you have all components, and one and a half monts later you have another titan in game. so like you see its not a big deal, even one well organized person without girlfriend to care, can do it all (even around 80ish runs from outpost to pos with cap parts isnt too much specialy if you have pos at undock direction of your outpost, insta warp).yes i know that, thats why this idea is good."
"i don't know the exact numbers as i'm not into caps too much, but i believe the loss of a carrier should come down to about 400m (fighters, fittings, insurance), which is 6 or 7 times that of a lost rigged, t2 fit battleship. not to mention the horrible effort in building a cap compared to building subcaps.they're the new battleships and finally a counter to titans, which just deserve to die.and remember there's also a lot of players out there who don't have dozens of r64 moons."
"not supported, capitals were purposely made cheap so everyone could fly one some daycheap = easilly replaceablethere is just no way around itattrition still works with capitals so you still have no issue other"
"if you made the capitals more expensive then new alliances would find it even harder to get onto the ladder and claim some space. iv just trained, built and fitted a carrier and that drained my money pretty well.if they are made more expensive they would never be worth the training, the money and how easily they can be killed by a mistake or a well led gang."
"supported"
"didn't realize this was active, but i had a suggestion for this in this thread, linkage"
"it'd be a good idea that tie in afterburners and mwd's so that they turn off whenever you hit ctrl + space or stop the ship using the stop ship commandthis saves numpty's like me forgettig its on and draining cap at a standstill."
"not supported unless it's a toggleable option- personally, i'd rather have the extra bit of control over my ship any day- if you hit stop ship when you don't intend to, you're down that much capacitor, and might not have enough to reactivate.it's a reasonable idea- but it would have to be toggleable."
"hersch, i miss talking to you :3"
"this..."
"i'd say more, but the dust 514 chicken little crowd on eve general has been keeping me amused today instead."
"the main problem with that idea is that it would allow all ships with mwd to warp in 3 seconds"
"put it into your f1-f8 spaces, jeeze"
"i think the proposal was for it to turn off as per standard deactivation, not as per being scrammed. i'd oppose the three-second warp, if that was what was being proposed, but i don't think it is."
"current issue:- missioning in high security space appears to be overpowered / too profitable compared to other activities.solution:first, let me demonstrate how the current mission mechanics work. highlighted are the areas which i believe need modification.a person takes a mission. the mission rewards are generated based on the following factors: agent quality, mission level, security rating of agent's system.once accepted, a player then goes into the mission area and begins killing npcs (for the sake of argument, assume this is a \"combat\" mission).each npc has a set bounty, depending on the npc type. this bounty is the same regardless of the system security status, or system population.every 20 minutes (from the first kill), the player receives bounty payout.player turns the mission in, receiving rewards originally indicated in the mission description.the following solution (demonstrated) could be implemented to resolve the issue of the high sec reward dillema.a person takes a mission. the mission rewards are generated based on the following factors: agent quality, mission level, security rating of agent's system. (unchanged from current implementation.)once accepted, a player then goes into the mission area and begins killing npcs (for the sake of argument, assume this is a \"combat\" mission). (unchanged from current implementation.)each npc has a bounty on them, set at spawn, determined based on the following (potential) factors:number of times destroyed (of this npc type) in system in the last x hours (or minutes)number of mission deadspaces active in system in the last x hours (or minutes)(optional) level and quality of the agent being missioned for(optional) relative congestion of system compared to others in region / constellation / faction space (ie: gallente, amarr, blood raider, etc)player turns the mission in, receiving rewards originally indicated in the mission description. (unchanged from current implementation.)reasons for suggestion:as evidenced in the gamedev forum \"top 3 issues\" thread, there are a lot of people unhappy at the imballance in risk v reward offered by the high security l4 missions. additionally, there is a general perception that low security space is the \"orphan child\" of eve, with both high and null security being perceived as more profitable. this solution aims to address these two issues by introducing variation into the main rewards of missions, which are the bounties provided by them. the idea behind this solution is that, if missioning out of a popular, high security system (with low perceived risk being acknoledged by the popularity of it), your rewards should diminish based on the factors outlined above (namely, number of other people actively exploiting the benefits of the location, and the speed of this exploitation). additionally, by using comparative metrics for the systems within a certain range, this system can also bonus the low-security and/or low-population systems by providing them with higher bounties on the same npcs as in mission hubs.pros:works to even out the eve population, as opposed to the current system of hub + spoke mission areas.works as a stealth buff to low-security space (double-effect of both higher agent quality and low system populations)addresses the problem without affecting the current difficulty of missionsencourages player movement and alternative professions (via reduced rewards)may create additional opportunities for the salvaging/ninja salvaging mini-professionscan be implemented across all levels of missions"
"cons:slightly higher node overhead (more queries to the db to determine bounties on spawns) (uncertain)slightly higher network overhead (server-client communication for bounty values)so. many. hub-runner. tears.implementation in lower-level missions (1 and 2) may unfairly penalize new players - could offset via higher multipliers on \"agent missioned for\"?so, this is the idea in a nutshell! please support this if you think this would resolve the issue (or comment below if you have better ideas/suggestions)!cheers!"
"mission hubs are not bad things. the lag from them has been dramatically reduced over the years, and the existence of other options for where to mission helps a lot as well. i'd love it if the other races were to get as much carebear love as the caldari have gotten, but i don't think this is the right means of doing that. it's far too complex a method of achieving your desired goal."
"i'm not at all saying mission hubs are bad. what i am trying to get at is that, at the moment, i'd hazard a guess that most of the income from l4s (60+%) comes from doing missions in hubs (which are themselves located in highsec). by applying this, it works to both even out highsec rewards across empire, but also to up the rewards in lowsec. lowering the lag in hubs is a side-effect, but it's not at all what i'm trying to achieve with this proposal.so, tl;dr for the whole proposal: 1) nerf to l4 hubs via lower rewards, 2) buff lower q agents / lowsec / less frequently used corps via higher rewards, 3) potential for easy addition of other factors (ie: loot drop, corp's mission frequency, etc) into the rewards."
"i suppose i see your point, but the problems with l4 lowsec missions tend to be more systemic - the races nobody missions for have piles of awesome lowsec agents, the races everyone uses have a handful of worthless ones. give the caldari navy a couple l4q20s in 0.1sec, and i'd bet lowsec missions would get less hate. i just think that there has to be a better way of making lowsec missions better than the rather impressive amount of work for the server you propose to create."
"an interesting thing has happened in the console world. coincidence? perhaps. here is a link."
"thumbs up"
"and i suppose those of us who don't want to pay $300 for one game are just left out of what is going to be a significant part of eve? **** that."
"consoles are easy to hack and hard to keep updated.it's likely that the console game will be more exploitable then eve."
"wrong. it is much harder to hack into a console to steal information like user name's and passwords. for one most hackers dont even know the operating systems, and browsers well enough for the consoles to even pose a threat with consoles. it's a known fact that most hacks are directed towards microsoft operating systems."
"yes a little bit harder to steal passwords remotely, but who said anything about hacking into consoles remotely.this has nothing at all to do with keyloggers or browser bugs.it's about taking the dust game, changing it, and playing the exploited version that gives you some version of \"god mode\".a very common occurrence.to suggest that consoles somehow make exploiting the game software impossible is completely 100% bogus.as for microsoft.... hacks are targeted towards victims. no matter what os they use. just so happens that most people use windows and therefore it's the biggest target.the op said \"consoles which are indeed damn near impossible to hack into\". this statement is wrong.they are easier to hack as it is easy to control the updating of the software involved as they are designed to run well in offline environments. old software gives more in-roads then new software."
"most people who exploit in fps shooters are banned rather quickly. also this is something more than just a douche running god mode. it's about a third party sniffing out ports to gain a persons login credentials so that they can commit fraud. this is about protecting customers from that sort of thing. so if you have a choice of the possibility of protecting your clients from fraud versus the random idiot who thinks he's cool, what would you choose to do?"
"eh? why would that be any harder on a console then on anything else?man-in-the-middle attacks are just that.... doesn't matter what os the endpoint is, if you're in the middle you can read the data if not encrypted, or crack it if it is encrypted with a bad random generator or keys don't cycle often enough.os doesn't make any difference at all in this style attack."
"most of the time they have to connect to your ip in order to remote acess your data, which make that hard to do since clicking on links on a ps3 may be different. does the ps3 have a browser for the internet, and if so is that browser regularly targeted by these types of people? it is a fact tho the person who is making the trojan would have to code it using the same language as the targeted console in question, and there is no gaurentee that that trojan would work properly due to how that operating system works. so no, i highly doubt it is just as easy."
"the point is that it's possible to do it. changing from a pc to a console or whatever does nothing if the target has something worth stealing and is stupid enough to fall for it."
"well it depends actually we don't know for sure if someone could secure another person's credentials while they are running a console. if a consoles operating system doesn't support that type of coding to run in that system it may be impossible. first off when a console os boots up there is no way for a virus to start up because there will be no options for it do so. thus limiting the hacker only one chance at to sniff out information, if he/she can even do that."
"a computer, is a computer, is a computer."
"and that's why you make a different type of virus targeted at the specific console (or computer) you want to infect. nobody is saying you'll get a pc virus on your ps3, they're saying that the same hackers who are trying to steal your account info on the pc will simply create a new attack to steal your dust info from your ps3."
"okay, so a computer is a computer is a computer. the problem with that is that certain operating systems may not be sophisticated enough for complex viruses like a trojan to operate inside it. the only way possible is if a person hacked a ps3 to run like a computer using linux, and to acces login credentials for a game like dust, the user would have to switch from linux to the regular game os loaded on the ps3. so in reality the linux which is loaded on the hard drive wouldn't be active, and secondly the game os is located in a flash memory seperate from that. it would be near impossible, and not worth doing, since trying to sniff out such data would be accessing sony's servers, and that may not be fun at all."
"the os on your phone is exploitable.the first xbox is exploitable.the new xbox is exploitable.the next xbox is exploitable.as for stealing credentials, it's just not an issue.who cares about these credentials, there is near no value in them.exploiting the game itself would be much more prevalent."
"here's a hint for you: viruses aren't new. they've been around on much more primitive systems than any modern console."
"are you a r e t a r d? seriously, ccp banned 6000 macro mining accounts. macro mining accounts have been linked to isk sellers who are also linked to stealing account info, and login credentials in order to play the game and make money. if they don't sell the isk they will try to sell your account, and even scam people who are trying to buy an account this way. i had a character hacked into recently so i know first hand how sucky this can be. it is all because if they find out your ip they can run your system remotely using different ports, via trojan viruses, and sniffing systems, or perhaps the virus downloads itself sniffs out the info, finds it and sends the info back to the author. so if you think it is a non issue then you can eat sh@t and die."
"thanks captain obvious. the problem is in order to run a complex program, it takes a complex operating system. i believe the operating system on a console would not be complex enough to perform such a function."
"you are mistaken."
"lets say i am mistaken about the hacking, even tho i believe it would be more secure than any windows machine(much like the reason a linux system is). even if i am mistaken, would this not get rid of the macro miners, or the alts who stay cloaked in system 23/7? what about those neutral alts that repair ships during a corp war in high sec? switching to consoles ultimately would solve so many problems in game as it is. the option to run multiple accounts would still be there, but you will just have to have another console in order to play each account. i like that idea."
"don't listen to dr. whinesmith.... he's running low on cheese.seriously... where do you get this crap?the only thing i've seen happening is hijacking of xbox accounts... exploitations and \"cheating\" are few and far between due to the jailed nature of the console... you'd have to physically modify the hardware just to get anywhere.. let alone risk damaging the warranty... on already large pos hardware which suffers from nearly if not higher than 50% failure rate (welcome to rings of death! weee!)i think \"chicken little\" should take a little walk and get some cheese.the odds of cheating/hacking are extremely low due to a plethora of reasons... i'd be more worried about the pc's.not to mention the fact your talking about the majority of which are a bunch of kids and even if they do cheat... its to kill someone in a game... like halo... and not to affect your precious internet ships which are very likely gong to get ganked by some random pirate in some random gate camp.why is this even an issue? sheesh.oh and not supported.... i hate it when a console benches a game and keeps it from the larger computers when its fully doable on a standard pc/mac."
"you've been playing since january 2007, so assuming you've been subscribed the whole time, that's $350-$450 you've paid in subscription fees. so apparently you do feel like paying $300 for one game."
"other than the last sentence i agree with every word drake said.battlesmith doesn't really know what he is talking about. he keeps talking about old software and crap but you can't even get online unless you update to the current software. modded consoles are almost immediately detected and banned outright and since its really easy to report hackers on the console their escapades generally only last a few minutes before the ban hammer drops."
"get em' herschel!!!"
"very well said. i loled"
"thats the point we pcplayers have, i don,t mind consoleplayers as long the gameplay doesn,t change to much.but thats exactly what is gonna happen.if dust 514 was pc and console you wouldn,t hear me ,but indeed a lot of the money the pc playerbase payed is invested in the consolemarket and in return we get sh@t and thats what the most pcplayers are angry about.and again if dust was multiplatform pc/consoles i would welcome it."
"so let me get this straight you're concerned about hacks and account stealing...so you want it on consoles only. that's got to be the most assinine thing i've heard. pc security isn't as flawed as you make it out to be. it's just as simple to hack a console and it's os as anything else. take for instance the ps3 and xbox360 which can be hacked to run other os'es whether through hardware or software. hell the old xbox could be hacked over it's lan connection. given time the new gen consoles will be too guaranteed.if account security is your concern along with hacks and cheats let them release it through steam or another monitored and regularly updated distrubution and matching service. your argument for console only is not only flawed but not very thought out or realistic. console accounts are hacked on a regular basis, you just don't hear about it as much. consoles are no more secure than a pc. the pc has just been around and is more widely distributed and therefore more people are trying to circumvent it's security measures for gain. not much to gain from hacking a console account other than free play. then again the same could be said for hacking a pc account. as it's been stated before..a computer is a computer."
"mouse-over of time in eve should show the current date.not everyone is on the same day in their local timezones....i know it's easy enough to remember, but a little prompting does help.i often mouse-over the time expecting it to show me the date, the ui paradigm is strong enough that i keep going back looking for it and then remembering it doesn't show date."
"good idea, simple to implement, improves the game: i agree."
"yeah, i've hovered for the date a few times before i remembered that eve doesn't have that. be nice if they did it."
"supported"
"create a separate area of the forum for dust-514 related threads - or give them their own forum (dust514.com or something).then, move all the threads about that game to that forum area. let those of us who, frankly, don't care, go back to our lives without having to filter out all the \"sky is falling sky is falling\" posts."
"and get them the hell out of here.dust has no place here in assembly hall... the game is not involved in the daily happenings of eve online as it is... it may affect eve but not on the scale everyone is screaming at.. hell we don't even know what will be affected let alone how.while i do enjoy collecting tears from the mentally challenged... i feel that there are more important matters to discuss.it's not like they have a slim chance of being heard as it is.they would get more just writing letters (oh shock of shocks... writing? you people still do that?) to ccp's main offices. : o pcsm doesn't dictate policy as it is... and to force them to discuss a game that is not eve online is a total waste of there time."
"some guy has already done itdust514.orgi can not remember who it was that set it up, but give him some love!edit: it's eddie gordo who made it."
"much thanks!"
"agreed.and for the love of god do a better job on it's forums than you did on eve's."
"i expect the nerdrage to die down in a couple days, and we'll get use of the forums back. if it doesn't, then this becomes a bit more urgent. still, i expect ccp will do this without our prodding - they have some idea of how to support a game, they'll make forums for it when they're ready to. this isn't something we need to ask for."
"this console exclusive game should have zero impact on the 6+ year old mmo known as eve. it should have nothing to do with control of planets or sovereignty at all.eve should remain one single game undivided.dust 514 should be an independent console based mmo in the eve universe, not part of the current pc based eve mmo in any way."
"not supported!! change is coming, you should adapt. it is stated in the eula that game is subject to change."
"besides, imagine someday we get planetary bombardment in eve.the tears of all the 8-12 year olds, the tears dude!"
"that doesn't mean fans should welcome radical change.what next, we should introduce klingons to the world of eve because the eula says it can change? please..."
"actually that would be really cool. i would rather fly a bird of prey over a t3 ship."
"this. oh god, this."
"the hilarity of that would be epic!"
"swg tried that. how's that nge working out for them these days?they had 300,000 subs back in 2004, just like eve does today. they proceeded to radically change the game not once but twice in 2005, which led to them having less than 30k left today, even though the game is the same age as eve. soe and lucasarts have a reputation in the industry somewhere between that of politicians and radioactive waste.radical change in mmorpg games fails every time it's tried. in fact, the nge is such a notorious event that it's generally accepted as the industry example of what not to do, what to never do. the fact that ccp has failed to learn from that lesson is depressing. i thought they were the only mmo publisher who \"got it\". apparently not."
"do not support."
"i think eve and dust is a good combination if done right but they need to make sure that pc players aren't left out in the cold. if this is going to be a pure console release then i completely agree, de-link it asap."
"it has been stated that sovereignty will be decided by multiple factors, and we can assume dust 514 will be but one of those. it is against your religious beliefs to talk to console players? well, then do take sovereignty the hard way."
"i know all about the nge i was on the kettemoor server. in fact one of my favorite videos was done by a relative about the nge.(look up darth velveeta on you tube). the difference between the nge and this, is that the actual game play is not going to change in eve ie pvp mechanics for ship to ship combat and such. eve players will have the option of either playing dust along with eve to defend their territory or they can hire people from dust to do it. totally different from the nge which got rid of most professions, turned the game into a point clicky mash mash, clicky mash mash, and made everyone conform to what soe thought was epic. the only thing this affects are alliances/corps who have sov, no more no less, and we don't know how easy it will be for these mercs to go into a system and attack a planet. to me it should be as easy as getting a transport ship past gate camp, and/or a fleet waiting there to intercept at a planet."
"not supported.. lets at least get more info before (over)reacting, shall we?inspector... please get some rest before you post more, 'cause you're beginning to sound a lot like your namesake as far as intelligence is concerned. speaking from experience.. posting while tired and angry/upset/stressed.. etc, is a bad idea. you end up alienating people who may have agreed with you. and they dont forget it for a while."
"cautious support. i dont want to see years of work destroyed by a bunch of console playing asshats. if its part of a multi factor then yes i think im ok with it. lets get more info then get the pitchforks and torches"
"i understand where this is coming from, even share much of those fears.on the other hand i salute the idea and concept of dust/eve, if done right!"
"i really hope that my not owning of a console will impact the joy i have in eve. i'm not going to support this or be against it until more details are released however i hope ccp look after their current income stream as i know alot of player corps will be hugely annoyed if sov depends on the skill of a console fps."
"not supported. good thing they're changing **** up"
"not supported for the following reasons:1: industry... massive explosion in industry... we now supply arms... vehicles... supplies.. ferry troops... damn... i can smell the isk... oh the joy2: planetary bombardment and space artillery strikes? oh the joy of being paid to respond to calling in strikes.3: corporations now span 2 entirely different worlds... this would be staggering to think of the possibilities!!!4: eve online in all honesty has been in a increasing state of stagnation... now we have something that could blow the doors off... now we have something to interact with... \"walking in space stations\" becomes justified. while we... the \"demigods\" of eve online.. older players who pay for the privilege of flying in our ships... can directly intervine and affect changes on planets where these kids in there little xbox's and ps3's can shoot there brains out.... it's not a half bad idea honestly. my clan is really a multi-gaming one... hell i'd jump at the chance to dig into this.5: the \"chicken littles\" of eve online unsubbing? priceless... so yes... please... protest and emo-rage-quit the damn game... can i has your stuff?6: and last but not least... ccp has been working on this for 3 years... i don't care how loud you frakking scream... you don't have a snowballs chance in hell of getting them to change there mind... the amount of money invested in the project would be staggering.. so please... stfu and drop it before you embarrass yourself./thread+not supported"
"/signed, conditionallyif it's going to be a console-exclusive, that's just pure bull**** and it should have zero effect on eve.if it's going to be a pc game (with a proper pc version, not just a hack-job port), then i'm willing to wait and see more detail on the mechanics connecting dust and eve before commenting."
"omg, the tears on all the forums since the announcement is flowing hard.get over it. there is so many thread of whining and crying and most of them asking questions that were already answered if you actually watched the video and read the interview.all you people all butt hurt over the game being console only is truely pathetic."
"i wanted to support the op but this^^ made me change my mind. bring it on on a serious note: i don't think dust 514 will have some capital impact on eve universe. it's just a marketing trick to sell more dust. (hmm \"sell more dust\" sounds appropriate)"
"i don't have a problem with a separate game influencing, or being tied to eve in any way, i just don't think that sovereignty should be one of those factors. i don't have a problem with it being console specific or anything like that, but why sovereignty?granted, ccp has stated that dust gameplay is going to be only one of multiple elements contributing to sovereignty, but why have it at all? why not make the connection something less incredibly impactful upon all current eve players. i want to fight for my own space in the eve universe, not have to contract it out to someone else, who may or may not be terrible at fps's.make the interaction more like, you have goods at planet x and need them transported to planet y. send in the mercs! we spend a lot of time maintaining our space and building it's infrastructure to have elements of that ownership skewed by an entirely new independent gamer base.now if it turns out that there are, say, 5 new ways of achieving sovereignty and holding it in a system and dust is just one of them, this will leave 4 other in eve options to claim sovereignty. this still would leave the main eve playerbase in true control, and planetary fighting would only sway the sovereignty in highly disputed systems. if however planetary fighting in dust is the main consideration for sovereignty levels, then i just have to ask why sacrifice eve players direct involvement in shaping their space?"
"not supportedadapt or die"
"frankly, i'm looking forward to being worshiped by console kittens.is that so wrong?"
"i'm looking forward to intercepting troop transports long before they reach planet..oh, the joy of the screams of \"wtfomghax!!\" in local.../not supported"
"bump"
"i agree, there shouldnt be insurance on modules, the insurance is just to make sure a player can get back off there feet after losing a ship."
"sorry, pressed new topic and not reply!delete?"
"hey it's cool, i'll just lock it fly safe!"
"i agree, there shouldnt be insurance on modules, the insurance is just to make sure a player can get back off there feet after losing a ship."
"well i havent seen either! but the older one sounds better!"
"i don't think we're going to be able to do **** about this, but i'll mention it"
"the concept is interesting and it will be very interesting to see the implementation.the console is kinda part of the design too....i'm thinking of the console users as very simple ai.they are ants running around being stupid, semi-******ed squeaker console kids make near perfect ai. :-)it might actually be sad if pc users played this side of the game.i'd feel sorry for any real person that subjected themselves to playing in this audience.we can all look at console users with disdain, making our demi-god status as capsuleers reflected in our superiority to people who buy bad computers, with bad audience, and bad expensive games.it might actually work. :-)"
"i appreciate you being willing to bring it up, and thats all i ask. i certainly understand that, for this particular issue, the csm likely has very little influence.thanks though!"
"in your will can you say that i can have your stuff?"
"ccp should just make their own gaming system and make it capable of using both eve's on it :p they allready have their own engineers to make advanced systems to support this whole eve universe seemenignless and single shard server etc"
"/signed"
"any game that can interact with the eve universe must be available to the pc. /signedjust a speculation here is it possible that the reasion dust isn't being ported is because the features and capabilitys will simply be included in a eve patch."
"support"
"agreed.from this end, it appears that ccp is wanting to expand their gaming universe without detrimentally effecting their eve online player base.why else would they distinctly exclude the pc user from dust?their programmers can't be that moronic as to be able to program for an xbox and not for a pc or mac."
"yes pc would be good for people that don't want to buy a $400 console just to play one game."
"i certainly hope that there will be a version accessible to pc users, even if not at initial launch."
"yuppers!"
"this isn't about lacking anything.it's about making your inventory management easier when dealing with hundreds of modules.i'm in favor of improving the inventory ease of us."
"in the recent patch ccp decided to put a 2 second delay on scanning, you can still click the button repeteadly, but it will now only update 2 seconds instead of the normal \"every time you click\".no, seriously, a delay on scantiming? how the hell ya gonna check a 50 au systems different celestials in a inty, in the 2 second scantimer delay you will have passed over 30 au... yes there is now a scan timer delay - thats messed up :/i could understand making it a 0.10 second delay or even 0.3, but 2 seconds is rediculous for interceptors and the like.edit: remember to click \"support this thread\""
"yep undo please :( /signed"
"signed. narrowing people out at different belts with the scanner just got a lot harder."
"this is as dumb as a box of rocks (or jester :p)"
"agreed. in a situation that requires very quick and exact timing to scan down hostiles, this change has a drastic negative impact on the playability of the game.please lower it to .1 seconds."
"signed. even a 0.1 delay would filter out a lot of spam clicking but 2 seconds is just way too much."
"signed for a 0.1"
"how do you check 50 au in an inty? well, they have these things called \"probe launchers\"...no, the anti-lag feature should stay. expand the range on directional to solve some of these problems, maybe, but don't bring back laggy directional spam."
"probe launcher on an inty? good one, and scanning down someone to a belt = 1 second. probing down someone to a belt = placing probes in position + clicking scan would be 30-40 seconds depending on how fast you are.also, for that reply i would wager you do not actually play the game. and scanning hardly has anything to do with lag, putting it down to a 0.1 or 0.3 delay would evaporate any lag that is currently."
"confirming yet another ccp fail"
"yes, back to the old setting"
"agreed. this is f'in stupid.you didn't even mention the fact that if you jump into system and are trying to narrow a ship in a belt that carebear now has a huge amount more time."
"gg ccp..... -_-"
"please edit your post and click the \"support this topic box\" or it won't be counted. (/signed is useless in assembly hall)it is a huge nerf to pvp. it's the first time that i am really disappointed by this game."
"agreed. ccp, making 0.0 as safe as high sec 1 update at a time."
"supportin'directional scan was terrible enough already without it nerfing if further."
"i liked when the devs actually played the game and understod what consequences their nerfs have."
"brill idea really shows you thought it through but at the end of the day it's a numbers game and you can count me against this."
"agreed. ratters just got even safer. jump in- scan. raven on scan. narrow it down... wait two secs... hes in oone of three belts. wait 2 secs to narrow it down to each...oh hes safespotted.part of the overall plan to make ratters pretty much fireproof- which i thought was against the ideals of the game. wheres the risk if people cant scan you down?"
"meh.standard patch day whine-a-thon."
"you do realize there are other ways to find a ship in a system right? even in a safe spot?"
"...and probes will get him before he warps to a pos, docks or logs right?good thinking."
"i don't seem to have problems finding people with them. maybe you're doing it wrong.the part about this i find to be very ironic is that before the patch all the mission runners were complaining about how it would make it harder for them to watch out asshats like you.now you lot in here *****ing about how much harder your job is.ffs - it's like a damned kindergarten playground around here this week."
"mission runner spotted, i fully support this."
"just had a look on eve-kill and battle clinc of you and your corp. thanks for your valuable input. do you tutor people? i am sure i have lots to learn about pvp from you."
"why was this change exactly necessary? it lowers the killing potential... i dislike that..alot.ninja edit.to the person below this post.dear sir/madam/thingby the time i find some one that can teach mangold something besides drunk driving i find that the money is best spend on booze and *****s. thank you."
"you're welcome for the input. it's nice to be apprecitaed.i do have to forgo the opportunity to offer my tutoring services however. since you only seem to judge the worth of people by their killboard (aka epeen) i'm not entirely sure the lessons would stick, and i'd hate to waste your money."
"this thread needs moar ch tbh :pccp said in patch notes that this change was being made purely to combat lag, which means that any other effects it would have on game play are unintended.clearly, this change is effecting more than just lag- both carebears and pvpers alike have been compaining about it; and for that reason, i support the reversal of this change, or reducing the delay signifiantly."
"carebears and pvpers unite, repell this evil \"feature\""
"well there goes plexing in 0.0"
"yea... cause watching local is so hard!"
"thank you for missing my point."
"what do you expect when the nc votes itself into the csm slots"
"absolutely stupid addition.get rid of it, i support this thread."
"signed."
"/signed"
"thank you for contributing to thread about stuff you nothing about. go out roam and try catching stuff and come back and tell me how easy it was."
"/signed."
"/signed"
"i agree. change it, don<U+FFFD>t make sense how he is now."
"/o signed"
"this needs to be looked at straight away, not tomorrow, not next week, hotfix, lets make it happen ccp.danneh! \o/"
"/signed"
"make sure you guys aren't just typing /signed. you need to put a check in the \"support this thread\" box."
"another horrible nerf to something that was fine. stop nerfing **** that is fine and fix all the **** that is broken."
"support this completely, stupid and ill-concieved nerfpeople need to click the frickin box ffs not just a /signed"
"please ccp remove an utterly awful change"
"because there aren't enough ch in this thread yet, signed and supported."
"did we really need another nerf to solo pvp and scouting?changing a vital part of intelligence gathering to the point where it has reached near uselessness for the sake of \"performance concerns\" is extremely foolish. if you want to have a game with perfect performance, you could simply remove all the players, weapons, and spaceships, and the dev's could roll around in shuttles checking out their cool little universe. performance is not an excuse for a amputated game experience.on top of that the actual implementation of the nerf is awful. no visible timer, a notification message that appears in the center of the screen...good work. change it back, now please."
"threadnaughting this nowundo this pls"
"f'in stupid piece of ****... fix please!"
"signed"
"i wrote this for him, so.../signed"
"/signed"
"bullcrap you did : < however, as any pvper of any sort of competence should be in full agreement, i guess we do share the same opinion. if this is the first step in changing the scanner in such a way as to not require spamming of the \"scan\" button, or integrating it more fully into the system scanner arrangement then that's a good thing. unfortunately the current implementation is awful."
"signed"
"so is this why ccp announced dust?/signed"
"i already posted this in the deployment thread, guess it's good to crosspost here.this is just horrible in my opinion.a) you can't see people who decloaked for just a few seconds (e.g. when decloaking after jumping in or when they landing at a gate and decloak before they jump out) anymore unless your timing is lucky. right now it is the job of good scouters to keep spamming scan which results in skill > luck instead.b) you can't time many things correctly. 2s delay means 6au to 27au someone got closer to you. especially in fast roaming gangs / sniping hac gangs its crucial to see how far the enemy is spread out and to get exact information asap. 2 seconds are a lot of time there.c) when hunting people or e.g. ratters decent scouts keep checking belts they are not warping to midwarp right now. it works because there is no delay between scans, here again 2s delay in an interceptor is just huge. also, 14au scan range + 27au warp distance within 2 scans doesn't mix too well.if there really has to be a fix for performance issues i'd suggest a delay which relates to the systems current performence, aka a relation to the normal lag you get in systems with more people in them. while 2s delay are insane and horrible in a system with 10 people in it they pretty much don't matter in a system with 150 people when it's slowly getting laggy anyway.also i'd suggest (if this increases overall performance) a delay in highsec, but way less or no delay at all in lowsec/0.0"
"word../signed"
"agree"
"if anything do it for efram the ******ed rabbit."
"yep, this is a really dumb change"
"meh"
"i wrote this in general discussion, but it's more appropriate for this thread:i live in 0.0 and often times i try to scan down farmers at asteroid belts. the best way to do that is to warp to a planet with many belts around it, reduce your directional scanner angle to 15 degrees, and start point-checking 1-20 belts as quickly as possible.the time it takes to scan 1 belt and aim for the next belt with a scanner is just under a second. 1 second tops. 2 seconds definitely creates noticeable lag when trying to scan 10~ belts. this mostly benefits the defender - the farmer.but aside from extra benefit to farmer, the main problem here is the high level of annoyance this would create for everyone scanning belts. i'd say, this sacrifice is definitely not worth it any slight server performance improvements. unless ccp can show us direct evidence that this change helps a lot of people have better game experience, or there are many willing who will testify that they have much less lag with the new scanner mechanic - ccp should undo this game change. if ccp has any shred of care for the community left, enough to put aside their huge ego, they will do this.csm people have the opportunity to do real good to the community. unlike most other issues, this one is the simplest and offers the greatest benefit for the effort. if they can do anything, they should resolve this issue."
"/signed"
"i`m in"
"get rid of the delay. no 1 second or half second. just get rid of it!!!!!!!"
"<-- scout/inti pilot..."
"signed, yup take this off!"
"2 second delay.....? are you ******"
"revert changes. signed."
"signed"
"signed, really bloody annoying now"
"this is annoying, and slows down scouting, i can no longer pin point people in belts while im in warp, with 2 seconds delay i could of past the entire cluster.."
"supported by many mad pirates.caer"
"i think the best possible compromise between performance and gameplay here would be adjusting directional scanner time depending on the shiptype you're in.e.g. interceptors .2 sec delay, battleships the full 2 seconds.this would have a positive impact on scouts, as they'd be able to find ratters with a greater degree of success, and would make solo ratting in potentially hostile space an altogether more unwise idea (as it should be anyway).this would offer up a much more balanced solution to the lag problem, and is probably the best possible compromise in this situation."
"+1i'm out of practice with the directional scanner, but i'm not likely to get back in practice with this nonsense."
"absolute terrible change. it needs to be reverted - sorry ccp."
"it is now much harder to locate a target quickly on jumping in to a system. terrible change."
"agreed, either revert the whole change or set the delay to a fraction of a second - 2 seconds is way too long"
"when cva and u'k agree that some feature is bad, it must be so./signed"
"agreed, this was a bad idea on ccp's part, this one needs to be reverted."
"agree bad nerf .."
"revert the change /signed"
"this is a horrible changei can't see them not reverting it"
"agreed, bad nerf."
"this is a bad change, signed"
"reduce it to 1 sec. and it will still lighten server workload and still be usefull."
"this is as much a nerf to solo roaming as removing mwd+cloak was. lets hope it goes the same way as that did..."
"agreed. change the scan delay to 0.1 second. maybe 0.3-0.4sec absolute maximum.2 second scan delay is unacceptable."
"horrible change! please fix."
"this idea is a stupid one, revert it/signed"
"agreed"
"yes more boost less nerf"
"gank bears whine not supported"
"i was just as surprised as the rest of you. we have had no contact with ccp about anything yet. maybe they'll ask us for some feedback when we actually do the iceland conference, who knows."
"what do you mean how do this help? you forget your intelligence augments today or something?you just made a very absolute statement that ccp is in charge. and i pointed out what has happened in the past when developers ignore the majority of their audience and exert supreme authority over their creative decisions.we can't quite gauge what the majority is just yet as the announcement is only early. but should the outcry continue, it may very well be against console exclusivity."
"did you forget to read?i suggest you go back and re-read what i said.it's not that hard to figure out."
"despite my usual (and quite evident) disdain for gs in general, i'm quite willing to accept this statement as truth. but vel! why? why accept the word of a vile, scamming, conniving goonie? because i work in software development, and you don't tell your customers about new features/products before they're ready.why is this you may ask? we pay for these products/services and we demand to know! well, students, it's so that they don't raise a holy ****ing ****storm when your \"promised\" release turns into vaporware due to lack of funding or a corporate direction shift.tl:dr: quit your *****ing - ccp is under no obligation to make any announcement, to anyone including the csm, about any new product until they're damned good and ready to make it. now pull up your big girl panties and stop acting like a bunch of god damned 2 year olds that just had the cat **** in your sandbox.warning - meme alert.if, on the other hand, you insist on being a whiny *****y little girl about the whole thing, please choose the meme that best describes your situation:1. ur stuff, can ai haz it?2. this is game3. you're a dumbass - because of falcon.4. cool story dumbass."
"i don't think dust is the issue i think the issue is any potential impact on eve and the way that information is being managed.i don't think any of us can say whether dust will be good or bad for eve without more information and ccp is failing to provide this.if dust armies have to travel in vulnerable convoys through hostile space and even when they get to a planet can be bombarded from space that would be a good thing. it would force fleet fights to protect invasion forces.if dust armies can just randomly spawn on worlds and take soveriegnity that would be a bad thing.it's a pity that ccp didn't implement this as a means to capture stations instead of ambulation as about 80% of players had already suggestedfinally if dust and eve are linked then shouldn't it be a single subscription?i'm sure there are many more questions and that is the problem, there are many question but we are not getting any answers."
"so instead of having a panic attack and going ape #### how about we go back to our internet spaceships and just wait for ccp to give us more information eh?because all your doing <grabs popcorn> is feeding me a ton of laughs while you all look like a ton of idiots!x o d<shares popcorn with de and hersch and anyone else with brains>"
"the rampant speculation is just hilarious and is going overboard bigtime.i brought up dust in local yesterday and people spazzed out. start talking about stuff and claiming it as fact saying it was in the press release but it wasn't. posted the entire press release to prove them wrong and basically got the answer \"so\" in response.some people are just apt to the deer in the headlights approach to life. the dust announcement has highlighted those people bigtime.all i can say is calm down until we know more. right now all you whiners are doing is making yourself look like idiots because we have no idea what it will do to the game."
"ooh, popcorn!*om nom nom*"
"i can say the csm was blindsided by this as well. there were lengthy discussions in iceland with csm ii about how sov would be changed. some sort of \"pendulum\" that involved planets was the basic idea presented.does that invalidate the csm. i don't think so. i am sure csm iii will get lots of opportunity to learn more and offer input. as to my reaction to the dust 514 announcement, i think it is an \"out of the box\" idea that was bold for ccp to bet on. am i personally happy about it. no, its not how i would have liked ccp to use its resources but i don't get to make that call. here are some of my concerns:1. in general successful console titles will be played in numbers dramatically larger than the number of players in eve today. what impact will this have on the already overtaxed server infrastructure? i have no idea but i could see it adding to the lag we already see.2. no mater what anyone says this is ccp removing resources from core eve development. as has been pointed out before there are so many \"broken promises\" of features that never were delivered or if delivered completed. if dust takes off expect even less focus on eve.3. console and pc game experiences are fundamentally different. consoles are considered a \"living room\" experience, often with a rl social element. pc games are generally considered a solitary deeper experience (in terms of where you play the game, not the interactions in the game in an mmo, i.e. you sit by yourself at a desk with a keyboard at a monitor). not sure how these two experiences will mate in the end. as ren once said, \"could be something bad, could be something good!\", until dust is out we'll never know!4. it really won't change anything about the balance of power. the big alliance will still have the resource advantage to offer more incentives to the console kiddies to do their bidding. of course, not sure how anything suggested as a change for 0.0 gets around the fact folks with more resources have an advantage. not sure anyone would want a giant set of stellar dice that dole out 0.0 sov randomly.5. finally, as a pc gamer i am alarmed anytime i see a company that has created a pc game that i like to play get into the console space. pc gaming is in decline as the potential revenues of consoles draws greater and greater numbers of developers off the pc as their primary platform. mmos are one of the places pcs have remained a healthy gaming platform. now the ccp has tasted the console koolaide can they stay true to we pc users?so i am concerned. but i think we still have lots to learn and i am remaining open minded that dust 514 \"could be something good!\". let's see if csm iii has anything to share when they get back from iceland.issler"
"1) i'm pretty sure they're going to buy new servers for dust. if it sells a lot of copies, they'll buy a lot of servers. this is a direct cash influx, most of which can go to hardware - i don't anticipate scale problems of that sort. 2) not true in any meaningful sense. that's like saying that you buying clothing takes resources away from food - sure, you could buy more food with that money instead, but if you're already eating, why would you? our dollars aren't marked \"eve only\", they're ccp's, and they can spend some of them expanding the company if they like. 3) agreed. this is a concern, but i'm not too worried about it at this point. 4) largely true, though i think that most people are severely underestimating the effect of parallel alliances. 5) this is a bit alarmist, i think. ccp was created to make eve, and the white wolf mmo will be pc as well. i doubt that their flagship product will be forgotten, especially when it's still quite profitable."
"tell me ccp,what is the logic of not being allowed to transport plexes in your cargo hold?what possible reasoning do you have behind this???you come down on the isk farmers. you strongly discourage buying from the farmers, then you pull this absurdly illogical move to hamper people who are trying to play by your rules in order to earn isk, according to your rules.forgive me ccp, i don't see where you're coming at with this restriction."
"i brought up same point many months ago - because i wanted to see plex traffic that pirates could take advantage of.ccp replied that you don't need to transfer them because they can be applied to your character from any remote system. and they don't want to risk real money items falling into pirate hands cause of some stupid reasons."
"why do you need to?"
"i use gtcs to make my isk. mining bores me to tears, and mission ops get old after rescuing that stupid damsel for the ump-teenth time.when ccp had their \"rage\" on the isk farmers, was when i noticed the price of gtcs drop. so a colleague offered to buy them from me in providence.can't generate plexes in 0.0! so i headed to empire space.now, i can't even move them.i'm taking 140mil isk hit just because ccp doesn't want plexes to move.great!now, tell me how to convert them back to a gtc so i can sell it and only take a 40mil isk loss rather than a 140mil loss."
"op is being more belligerent than the topic deserves, but supporting the ability to move plex around. if you let scammers have their fun with them, why not pirates? i'm pro-arbitrage."
"@the op: so you failed to do your due diligence and research, made a bad business decision because of it, and it's ccp's fault. right. as long as we're clear on that.that aside, i've never understood why you can't move a plex. i would support the csm aski"
"if this is true, why the whine in the op? can't he contract them like everything else and let his collegue activate them remotely? why is it necessary to move them? i'm not against making them like normal objects, not just seeing why he has so much issue with them. the only complaint, that seems legit comes from the pirates not getting their chance for tasty plex loot."
"ccp has previously stated in response to questions about why they are scammable, that since they are in game items, they can be scammed like in game items. why doesn't this apply to moving them too?supported"
"maybe ccp doesn't want haulers with plexs getting ganked and people getting free game time."
"back to the head of the class.."
"i'm still not convinced this buff needs to happen- and where are you getting these numbers of 6m sp to be effective as amarr, and 20-30m to be effective as minmatar? from the arguments you've made, it just seems like you're downplaying the positives of min, and making mountains out of molehills. let's get real- if you're fighting someone, and your even doing as much as 100dps less than them, your overall setup is going to matter much more than pure damage output. autocannons have amazing tracking, and artillery still have their ridiculous alpha- i don't know if you've seen jita lately, but arty fit tempests are the ganker's choice :)as a final note, i'll say that i think there are plenty of things any of the four races could whine about- changes that have been made over the years. how about the fact that the megathron lost its agility bonus, and now has a lot more trouble staying in range or that falcons can no longer engage from 150km or that lasers can't track worth a damn? this is the biggest problem with eve- it's become so infested with whiners that ccp gets distracted from fixing glitches and adding cool new content. yes your race is at a disadvantage. and so is gallente. and so is amarr. and so is caldari.now quit wasting ccp's time."
"6mil is a pretty good estimate because an amarr player can train up they typical support skills, laser skills, and armor skills and be reasonably effective in pvp. not saying great, but i am saying that he's not going to be a slouch either. on the flip side, a minmatar pilot will have to train those same support skills and armor skills and projectile skills, plus drone skills (relatively, a minmatar pilot needs to get more dps out of his drones than a compareable amarr pilot would have to train), plus missile skills and their support skills, plus shield skills (if you want to fly more than two of the three battleships), as well as ecm skills for all four different e-war types (especially true for the tempest). in essence, you have to train for two races just so that a minmatar battleship can be equal for just raw dps on the field.. and that is saying nothing about projectile weapons themselves. as far as the \"advantages\", yeah.. i already stated the realities of the situation and what happened, how it affected the tempest, etc., etc.autocannons do not have amazing tracking... in fact, they come in second to hybrids (by 0.001 rad/sec). arties have good alpha yes, but as i mentioned before.. and as you seemed to ignore yet again, alpha isn't all that any more. sure, you may be able to one shot cruisers.. but against a battleship, its a different story. after the second round of combat, the advantage moves from alpha to dps. add to that falloff, which still again you ignored, and the loss of dps that represents, then you are stuck doing only 38.5% of your damage, while everyone else is sniping for much greater damage.also, your whine about the mega losing its agility has no weight here because the tempest is even less agile than the mega.that being said, you clearly haven't read a friggin' thing on these forums, or anything else for that matter. but, if you clearly want to keep pushing this to the top of the forums while we get this matter pushed up to ccp, by all means you are more than welcome to do so."
"megathron was covered already.falcons having that range was over powered and everyone is now happy with the falcon.lasers track better than arty and can switch ammo instantly so it makes fighting at optimal range really easy.anything else we can help you with?"
"sure- in order to be 100% effective in evverything their race can do, minmatar take more sp than amarr. the difference is that minmatar are a much more versatile race- if you wanted to train into a maelstrom, it would take the same amount of time as an abbaddon- the difference is that if you wanted to train into a phoon, you'd need some new skills to cover its role.i never said they had the best tracking- but their tracking combined with their effective range gives them a distinct advantage. as for alpha, you just admit that they have an amazing advantage over other weapons systems- if you're instapopping t1 cruisers, you're sure as hell putting a dent into t2 logis before they can broadcast rep.yes- but once a megathron is out of optimal, it's f**cked. with a tempest, you have quite some time before it really becomes an issue.again, no race is the best at everything, but every race is the best at something."
"projectiles need a huge boost. thumbs up.till bc shipsize i would agree with you. every race seems to have some good ships in every class (maybe not amarr t1 frigs, i dont know much about those). but minmatar bs arent good. a whole class (and the most important one!) is far behind. in your theoretical situation that 2 players would fight with comparable skills, minmatar would lose definitively more likley."
"you really wanna park your super cap in an array at a pos with all the meta gaming bull****? if i put all that time into being able to fly one, the money into gtcs and skillbooks to get there, and the money to properly fit the damned thing, i sure wouldnt./signed"
"i support any topic asking for a buff and not a nerf"
"i would love nothing more than a drone that can tank a belt spawn on it's own withought constant armor repping"
"not supportedyou're not a race that relies heavily on drones..."
"wth does race have to do with drones?"
"still thinking what would be a better change as the hp increase seem to high.caldari e amarr are the shield and armor resist races, so maybe an increase in drone resistance for shield (caldari) and armor (amarr) while shifting most of the hit point of the drones to shields for caldari and armor to amarr?it would require some change in armor hit point recovery too, allowing the drones to slowly recover them in the drone bay, but it could make them more unique. especially if the resistance bonus are different, for example +10% exp/therm, +5% em/kin for t1 caldari, +10% em/kin, +5% exp/therm for t1 amarr. something like this could make people chose between fast/more damage/more resist. as after all even if i disagree on the level of change you propose, amarr and caldari drones need a buff, supported."
"agreed."
"sigh.been here, discussed that.no./ben"
"stop asking for a nerf!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ask for a buff a way to get more t2 bpos!!...maybe useing bpos to try and invent a t2 bpo? with -6/-6 stats so you have to resurch them up to a positive?"
"supported."
"no, giving more t2 bpo's are an horrible idea to break the production of t2 items and make it as profitless as t1 production.maybe what should happend is items not worth inventing being fixed? also tune a bit the production times of certain items like ceptors, so bpo's can't cover the full demand, and it's fine."
"not supported, how ever it would be nice to have the locator agent also have a \"background check\" option where they can give info on alts of the same account, ofcourse if someone has more then one account they cant find that account.edit:and yes im posting as an alt because for some reason my alt is defalt."
"not supported but if we get rid of alts we also need to get rid of those pesky main chars as well. in fact lets just not have chars to begin with."
"because of dust"
"speeding up industry interface is useless. why not get rid of 90% of all clicks by allowing batch install, no confirmation on successful invention, not having to change range on every invention job, or any other of the brain numbing commonsense solutions.stop screwing up things that are good with the game and fix the obviously horrible things please."
"speeding up industry interface is quite useful - it's not my first goal, but i'm glad to have it. and if you want industry to be easier to do, then make a proper post to that effect, not an eve general-type whine thread."
"i think having secure containers to be repackable. this would make it easier to transport and trade them. if we can fold up ships why can't we fold up lockable boxes?"
"agreed."
"yep"
"this is already an option..."
"ladies and gentlemen of the csm team. having just endured the most annoying of wars, i propose a change to the war rules.if someone assists a pilot at war, eg with remote repairs etc, could the message stating that the rrer is going to become a legitimate target be changed to read that this will be for the entirety of said war and not just 15 minutes. please consider putting forward this proposal.kind regards,dilli"
"i like this... you have become an 'ally' by helping that wt, so you should be part of the war now."
"that would be funny with people repping pilots in fw. :)maybe the npc navies should start attacking them afterwards then aswell. ;)"
"oh lovely... a new exploit... i can see it now... a cascading war-dec.real smart op... real smart.not supported... duh!"
"i dont understand the reasons behind your flame drac, the ally would be a wt, not their corp. a legitimate target can then be countered at the outset of an engagement, pure and simple."
"you open e.g. the door for lofty style scam again. something we just got rid off.\"can you rep me quickly?\"\"err why is my corp wardecced now?\"thanks no."
"fake war between two corps, one of which asks for rr help from randoms in local. you can now attack that person forever, as long as you keep paying 2 mil/week to keep the dec up. that is entirely disproportionate."
"corp a dec's bb get's repped by cc is now dec'ed by ac reps ac is now dec'ed by bd e and f decide to greif bthey rep ab is now dec'ed d e fgetting the picture yet?"
"if they got the pictuire, they wouldn't have posted this thread, and you know it.*takes popcorn, and throws it at random people*"
"whe i salvage for about 5 hours i have a vast amount of unique items on board. the problem is that i have to click and sell each one.if you could select all and sell that would be great."
"lol"
"you know what would be great?a vetting process for assembly hall threads."
"good god dosnt ccp nerf things enuff on thier own? stop giving them ideas ya noob!"
"the missions are fine as they are for bounty and mission handin/mission bonus. what needs to be changed is the amount of loot thats droped.as for level 4s being too easy for the isk you generate, i dont see you complaining about macro miners, so all you really want is for someone to venture into low sec so you can pop their ship.and if i rember correctly theres moduals in 0.0 that sell for billions. i dont recall anything droping over 50 million isk in high sec, and thats only if you do cosmos missions."
"missions don't make anywhere near as much money as trading does and you don't even have to undock to do that.the reality is that it takes a long time to train up to the optimal mission running capability and we are at least still getting shot at. if a mission runner gets distracted it can cost them a ship. if a miner gets distracted it costs them a few m3 of ore.there are plenty of ways to make money. most people just like doing missions instead of the alternatives."
"i think you hare highly underestimating the number of db calls and the amount of data that will be stored to make it work as you suggest. it would create a lot of problems.if you really think that the npc bounties are the core problem it is way easier to simply add a modifier to the bounties value based on sec level of the system and agent quality.no need for extra data storage, modifier is determined once for all the ship in the mission, the modifier can be applied once when the bounties are displayed in wallet, so doing 1 operation every 20 minutes. to me it seem more straightforward."
"it has always annoyed me that large station containers and general freight containers can not be taken with you when you move between stations. i agree with the fact that industrial ships cant hold a full freight container but there is no reasion that an empty station or freight container cant repackage into a very small size for transport. aside from a thin metal shell they are pretty much all empty space inside. so my petition in short is make all containers repackage to 100m^3 or smaller as well as allowing owners to bypass the audit log waiting period for repacking station containers or remove this alltogether as the feature is a usless annoyance that serves no game ballancing purpose whatsoever)"
"the audit log waiting period is for corporate security - if i leave valuables in a container in a corp hangar and someone steals them, i have three weeks to see who they are before they can take the container and run. also, gfcs can easily be moved in freighters, and if you look at the stats on station containers, their inside is only 1% as big as their outside - 99mm3 of walls doesn't fit in a freighter more seriously, they're npc seeded everywhere, and are absurdly cheap. why do you care about moving them?"
"ok forget removing the audit log i see what you mean but there is no reasion the owner/operator shouldn't have the option to override the waiting period"
"just because i am a director with the permissions to access the container doesnt mean i should be able to hide my traces from other directors/the ceo.not supported.as a way out:1. name containers \"dont use <date>\". the date is the current date.2. contract unused containers to the corp and have someone else accept the contract.3. 4 weeks later you can repackage the container and then either trash the 19800isk worth container or sell it."
"why in this day and age is copying something like bookmarks such a pain. you can only copy one at a time, and god help you if you want to trade them.i just spent an arduous session copying all my bookmarks to trade to an alt account, only to have them fail to transfer.can we please get a fix for something that should be a very simple mechanic?"
"what?1. ctrl(or shift)+click all bookmarks you want copied2. hold shift, drag bookmarks to cargodone"
"you can copy 5 at a time. and copied bookmarks are dead slow.you dont want to have more than 5 in your cargo anyway.no issue."
"supporting the topic as something that needs work - i would love to see transferable or copy/pasteable or corp-level bookmark tools."
"the limit is there because mass copying of bms causes some pretty heft client and server lag."
"yah. only ccp would know for sure, but that was a problem back when there was an active market for regional bookmark sets (500+ in many of the sets). there were people who made a living copying bookmarks and putting them up for sale. that market is dead now."
"not before bookmarks get optimized. if you have 50 bookmarks in a can it already takes like 40-60s to load that can. dont want to imagine a few hundred bookmarks. hours waiting for your corp hangar to load because a joker thought it would be smart to drop a few hundred bookmarks into it?no thanks"
"bookmarks are server side data. copying them cause lag and was used to lag combat and crash the server in the past when it was possible to copy a lot of them at the same time. thats why we have limits on coping bookmarks. bookmarks are server side to avoid people from creating deep safes outside probe range changing the coordinate of a bookmark."
"yes, this is another 'introduce new t2 bpos to the game' thread. but it is also a risk vs reward thread ^_^someone pointed out an issue in another thread that i think has potential to add a new dynamic to t2 bpos. specificly, why would the companies that developed the t2 tech allow thier unlienced designs to be used all over the place? answer.. they probalby would not. they would sue, or, just like real life, get the police/military involved.so my idea is this. introduce new t2 bpos, or a way to create them (lottery, invention side effect, alternate invention goal, loot drops, whatever)... but make them a restricted material that you can not run around high sec with. restrict hi-sec manufacturing lines to t1 and t2 bpc only.end result? more t2 bpos, but people wanting to use them have to venture into the less safe low or null sec in order to profit by them."
"you do realize that most(2/3) t2 production is made with bpcs already right?"
"you want t2 bpos? buy them from current owner. where you build them i dont care. not supported."
"yes, i am aware of the numbers. i do realize that most t2 production is from bpcs and bpc owners generally are the ones setting prices and meeting demand.if new bpos started coming in though, they would probably end up dominating the market unless some kind of additional penalty were thrown in.what i do not want is a 'bpos are isk printing machines, i want an isk printing machine too! situation. i do not want t2 bpos back in because they are better, but because they add a richness and variety to production that has some potential for tradeoffs."
"even with limited knowledge on invention... i know this is a fail thread for one main reason.. invention is far more effective (even if its twisted as far as math is concerned) than bpo's.so suggesting that you make them contraband... is total waste of time.the idea is to improve the situation.. not make it bloody worse."
"yes, because so many people haul t2bpos around for funjust make it so that you can do invention with a t1 bpo and have a shot at getting a t2 bpo"
"this thread misses the point entirely. illegality is hardly going to be an issue - just build them in place, or in 0.0, or wherever. it's not hard to haul illegal goods, to my understanding. this would be a meaningless barrier."
"o/"
"this.you can software exploit an xbox and play on live for free.really they make much better media-centers then games platforms anyway.edit: ps3 is just the same, but i don't know it as well.to those who think you need to modify the hardware, it's not the case.consoles have software, software is exploitable, once it's exploited any access required to upload modified code is possible. as for it being banned instantly..... do you really think there isn't a way around that :-dbtw... the reason i jumped on those comments about ip address, is because i've wasted months of my life explaining stuff like \"cookies are not virus\" to people because of miss-information like that taking hold."
"test"
"thanks dv :d"
"how about we get a statement from ccp ?this bull**** has been in the game for far to long."
"i have doubts about the concept as a whole, but if it's gonna happen, at least let me bloody play it edit - i fail at ticky boxes"
"not supported, game is not required to play eve its a spinoff with features that can help in eve and completely optional. cross platform (console+pc) fpsing would never work and this game is three years into a console development cycle. there are already a ton of pc fps's, go play them."
"signedrly stupid its not availeble on pc while it gona effect eve somuch"
"/signed"
"dust needs to on the pc alsoyes pc gamers have a up over the xbox ps3 with control so give them a semi aim bot or something to balance this outbut if something is gone interact with eve current eve gamers should also be able to effect it and not be forced to buy a console semi vote for being able to nuke dust players from orbit would be nice to"
"game boxes are next to obsolete as computers are far more widespred now. its a dead end imo.i was happy anbd excited about this new thing especially because i am an rts gamer for 15 years now really. but i probably wont buy a box just for that game. pc i can use for many things. console just for 1 game. thanx for leaving us loyal customesrs (6 years here) out in the cold.btw how do i vote here i guess its related to the hands on the left side?"
"i'd realy like play dust (or at least i'd like to try it), however i will not buy a console for it /signed"
"/signedi definitely would buy this game on pc or even on the wii. but i dont want to buy any consol im not interested in and i dont want to play this game on an gamepad!"
"counter-supporting for ignorance and premature negativity based on very early ideas that are not solid or final."
"supported"
"confirming that the sky is indeed falling and all you chicken littles should continue to run around screaming and waving your hands in the air.(jesus christ this thread)"
"there is nothing premature about this topic. the ceo has said it himself:k: what we have been asked by our readers is: why only make the game available for console and not for pc?ccp: shooter on a console are different as shooters on the pc. we want to concentrate on developing a good console shooter.(source:"
"note that statement from ccp implies the game will not support mouse and keyboard control, not in a way pc fps games do - for sure. so even if you can plug in mouse to your ps3 or xbox, it will not work as expected.imo, any fps not designed to handle mouse and keyboard as primary input is a gimped fpsit's like making a car that drives with joystick instead of wheel and pedals. it can work, but there's something wrong with it, and certainly offers less convenient control. simply not best design path."
"i would like for it to be released on the pc. but even if not for that case, i would support it simply in reaction to the hypocrites who whine about other people who whine."
"having played fps competitively for ... i don't know how freaking long.. i made the transition to one on the console with the battlefield seriesusing a controller instead of a kyb/mse combo... its really not as bad as some people make it out to be. in fact in some instances, its actually better."
"does that make you a hypocriticrit?i learn a little bit more about the purpose of this forum before you start pointing fingers and calling names.the reason why this thread is full of fail is because of three things.1. polling pc gamers, which is what this thread is more or less, is generally going to end up with biased results anyways. in all likelihood the majority of these people are those misguided individuals who think that spending $5k on a computer that barely outperforms a $1k dollar computer in an area undetectable by the human eye anyways gives them an edge so they did that rather than buy a console and will be paying off their alieneware or equivalent for the next decade.2. the morans saying consoles are dead. considering that the vast majority of games sold now are sold on consoles reality begs to differ but reality isn't these people strong points anyways so take that for what its worth. go to your local gamestop and the pathetic pc section sums it up pretty well for a reason.3. the csm is a representative body of the player base not a governing body of ccp. so they have no say in this matter anyways. half the stuff they recommend to ccp is either rejected or ignored anyways. of the other half 1/4 is crap that is easy enough to fix and the other is generally implemented in some way other than what the player base expected which hasn't always been a good thing.tl/drwhining about this is like *****ing about gravity."
"i'd say yes, except, at this point, a pc version would be rushed and moreover it'd have to come prenerfed otherwise the pc players would slaughter the console tarts like the nubbins they are. i'm sure porting would be a snap what with the xbox being closely(ish) related to windows, but there's no win-win here.the cod analogy doesn't apply as cod console players can't play with cod pc players, so it's not unlikely both are good. (relatively speaking). so, ultimately, it does not matter."
"signed"
"what if dust will be released for the next gen consoles (2011 or earlier) and not for the crappy old ones will we get a new petition for all old xbox and ps3 players ?"
"correct but cod was a pc game ,activison shifted interest in consoles ,and al was left was a bad conole/pc portthat scares me when i think of eve"
"indeed"
"it takes about 10 seconds to re-enter your password after a log out. you used to be able to switch characters without closing out the client and it was buggy as hell, the reason ccp removed it in the first place."
"i like this idea!"
"yes it takes 10 seconds or less to enter your password but there is also the issue of shutting down the eve client and opening a new version which on slower systems can take a lot of time so to the op thumbs up"
"sensible suggestion is sensible"
"omg do want"
"hell yeah, i've been wondering for a while why this is not so to begin with.signed"
"supported"
"definitely makes it a lot harder to scan down anything or even to check what's in system while warping around .../signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"totally signed, scanning ruined it is."
"/signed!"
"supporting this, because this issue is seriously game-breaking for me, and as i'm often scouting for targets the delay is just unacceptable. as others here have said, it's about moving the angle around and hitting scan in the direction of different celestial objects quickly. pre-patch i could get a target ship to 5 degrees within 5-10 seconds, now it can take 20+. as the original poster mentioned, scanning whilst mid-warp is badly affected, especially with interceptors.the bare minimum delay i would be okay with is 0.3 seconds, but i would prefer it lower than that or removed entirely./signed"
"this is almost as frustrating as the jumpbug, maybe moreso since ccp actually intended to do this one."
"signed"
"/signed"
"totally unnecessary nerf."
"can we get some csm members that are supposed to represent us \"normal players\" on board with this so we know we aren't completely ignored?"
"/signed"
"please reverse this, makes scouting/scanning for a target very difficult-cera"
"ccp, please don't give free tickets to macro ratters"
"realise it's a problem but....whenever i hear someone frantically clicking scan over ts all i can think about is \"oh i wonder where the lag comes from\".spamming the server with scanning is bad."
"signed. please undo it ccp"
"the delay is a huge issue. any experienced pvper often uses their scanner more often than the current system allows.if you must have it, then introduce this delay only in systems with 200+ people. that way it doesn't contribute to fleet fight lag, but won't hinder day-to-day pvp and skirmish tactics where it is a deciding factor."
"yet another solo pvp nerf... harder and more annoying to scan down people. guess thats fine for the bears and farmers..."
"*signed*"
"another fine, well thought out and market tested solution for a better gaming experience. you make me proud!ps: i really do have a cv in the post."
"signed, i understand that spamming it might stress server too much but 2 seconds is too much time, reduce it or better yet remove it."
"i've been pinpointing targets on the scanner for a long time now and its nothing like the olds days but thats ok; times change. however this change is too much, too harsh. this breaks the game experience for alot of people.signed"
"signed."
"signed!"
"thank you ccp for turning all pvp into station camps./signed"
"supporting this idea"
"my understanding is that macros/farmers were setup for spam-scanning on a continuous basis (basically, something new appears on scan ---> they logoffski), therefore causing excessive levels of server use and lag. a hint might be that graph in the unholy rage explanation a few days ago showing significantly less server stress with the removal of those macro/farmer accounts, as they were perhaps generating server use above and beyond the typical 'real' player?as well as the patch note announcing it, which says \"this has been done due to performance concerns and exploits.\""
"2 seconds is far too long, 1 second or better, 0.5 second delay would still reduce lag.supporting, definitely a bad change."
"/signed, this is an awful change"
"agreed. roll this back please the idea is atrocious both in concept and implementation."
"this is a nerf to both pirates and carebears. please revert."
"i just submitted a petition about a broken scanner that just gives an error now and no results, only to find that was a deliberate patch change?get serious, if this was to prevent lag in fleets, yknow what. i just dont care. more people means lag will occur, however breaking gameplay in an attempt to fix it is ****ed./signed"
"signed ffs"
"signed, please revert the changes."
"major problem, please undo. even postin with my main for this."
"seriously ccp.none of us want 0.0 any safer than it already is. this is just a ridiculous idea and needs to be reversed. if you want to reduce lag, get rid of local."
"seriously undo...honestly this is ridiculous.they can make or break the chances of getting into warp and getting that target pointed. those 2 seconds can be the time you hit it on a 5 degree begin your warp sequence and get on top of that target before he warps out. there vital!!i am not just whineing im making a valid argument here. i have gone out today and i have killed a few things using the scanner in its new form, and the 2 second delay has had some affect on the efficency.those 2 seconds are vital. for a minor performance increase i think the choice of change was badly chosen. look elsewhere rollback to the orginal system."
"i have 17 million isk, can i help fix the scanner?i'd be perfectly happy with a .1/.2 sec delay, but 2 seconds is a bit excessive.edited for ****ty word choice"
"supported and reasoning posted in feedback thread.stupid stupid change which really frustrates people who know how to use the scanner to hunt. roll back this change."
"quite honestly, the worst change to happen to the game in the past 2 years. makes it even worse they don't bother to explain any of the rationale outside of the blanket \"server performance\" bs.please undo it or post something serious explaining why it got nerfed the way it did (as in, pretty graphics and charts)"
"your nerfs, they are terrible"
"good call, reverse this."
"signed"
"friggin' unfair change.here is the reason they nerfed it:people who were decloaking after gate transit were showing up on scanner before they were showing up on overview. this was causing people to gain a lock before the target \"showed up\" and created a lot of sad people and a lot of petitions.what they did wrong:they nerfed the directional scanner instead of providing a solution to the problem.how to fix it:provide a protective amount of time that targets will not show up on scanner (in the area of 0.5 to 1 second) so that people cannot use the scanner to get a faster lock on targets. this is a direct nerf to the directional scanner and it affects the game everywhere, not just on gates."
"urgh"
"agreed :)"
"terrible terrible changereal pvp'ers will post in this thread."
"signed.the delay and the automatic refresh when changing the angle is frustrating!"
"/signed"
"i lag enough that it already takes more than 2 seconds between scan cycles. that doesn't keep me from scanning people down and killing them...seriously if you can't adapt to a 2 second delay, that's kinda pathetic really."
"agree, too much delay lets carebears slip away."
"checking a belt cluster with 14 belts previously took me about 10 seconds. now it takes almost three times as long."
"rather have lag.. reverse please"
"signed , ccp u've done enough allready for the carebears :)"
"supported."
"signed."
"signed, very bad change for all the good scouts in game."
"terrible change."
"/signed"
"so the care-bears really control the game then? i thought it was just a rumor..."
"signed"
"signed"
"crazy 'fix' and once again proves ccp dont play the game too much before they decide to push through a change./signed x 100"
"the seas are growing. the wind will rip the sails. soon the captains will have to dock. the brothers struggle, but the wind is to hard, the sails wil rip and be torn apart.the guns will silence, the colours be taken down. the solo pirate is dying, he will drown.adapt or die! , the choise is yours. join the blobs or start to cry.alone they stand, alone they die, for my dying brothers i will cry....\"fin<U+FFFD>\"tx ccp for another nail into the coffin named solo piracy...sorry to say....sandbox is getting smaller....tbear"
"op: dscan range is 14.3 au.if you scan constantly flying in a 13.5 au/s interceptor, then you will have crossed 27 au per dscan.given that you're scanning 14.3 au in every direction every 2 seconds, you still scan every single bit of space that you did before."
"signed."
"omg they changeded something!!!to teh forums!!!!!"
"change it back. only a fool likes to 2 second rule."
"signed. is ccp trying to make 0.0 space even safer or what? this is an absurd idea."
"signed."
"signed. not a good move for us ccp, please reconsider."
"signed,now gimme my no delay back, i will gladly sacrifice a bit of performance for something we really need in our tradeif not, then give every outlaw in the game the ability to directly warp to what they find on the overview scanner"
"support"
"yes."
"signed."
"yes, please get rid of this crap ccp! worst idea ever!"
"last minute nerf to hunting/piracy, eh? nice one ccp. next time remove warp disruptors and scrams at the same time /ssupporting."
"supported."
"please either rethink this or remove the delay placed on scanning, the 'balance' keeps going in one direction only"
"/signed"
"/signed, it sucks genitals:)"
"another server performance boost put in place because some server diagnostic tool says that performance can be increased by 0.001% assuming of course that everybody were spamming their directional scanner constantly previously.that the diagnostic tool has an error margin of 0.05% is conveniently ignored."
"signedterrible change is terrible."
"signed"
"supported we need to gank more bearsedit: alternativly give a 10 seccond delay upon entering local to ofset this nerf"
"most of the stupid things that ccp changes, are somehow reasonable at some point ... this is not! signed ... get rid of the delay pls or make it 0.1"
"the scanrange doesn't fit to the delay and warp-speed. period."
"signed"
"not only is the change really annoying if you're scouting, the ui change to support it is terrible. at least give us a timer or progress bar, or grey out the scan box until we can scan again please if you do keep the change.max"
"look at dat fukkin alt."
"and dis one."
"/signed"
"this needs to be undone asap, the timer ruins small gang pvp /signed"
"150 supports !"
"i realy like the basic \"need for speed\" idea to improve the game, however need for speed should not improve the game by \"destroying\" parts of it! /signed"
"awful idea is awful useless large gap making macroing even easier, iritating as hell message in the center of the screen and no on screen hints to when you can actualy scan again"
"signed"
"that does sound reasonable."
"signed. signed. signed. signed."
"signed"
"yes."
"signed"
"so dumb it hurts"
"signed."
"save my pvp!!!"
"/signed"
"\"please can you hold still a second , no make that 2 whilst i recalibrate my scanner?!!,thankyou your a diamond !\""
"signed. the scanner is a crucial tool and being able to scan repeatedly is a large part of the game."
"signed"
"stupid dev is stupid."
"signed"
"supported. get rid of this horrible feature."
"what was the exploit from scanning anyway? :(scanning midwarp has become inefficient :("
"my god. how can people intelligent enough to use computers do something as stupid as complain about a two second wait that was introduced not for any opinion of balance but to address server issues!? you should all be ashamed of yourselves!this is a counter-support post"
"a nerf to pvpers probably brought upon us by scan button spamming carebears, that is just wrong."
"/signed"
"you have obviously never used your scanner, or at least not in an efficient way like most pvp'ers do. i think we are all aware that ccp is making efforts to improve the servers and noone is blaming them for that. what we're all saying here is that this 2 seconds delay is just way too much and badly screws up the directional scanner. several solutions have been suggested, hopefully ccp will reconsider this."
"remove this crap"
"signed"
"signed, bad idea"
"unbelievably bad and short sight-shorted solution....signed."
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"i agree, this is a serious nerf for the belt pirates in eve."
"/signed"
"annoying as hell, needs to be reverted. if the payload is that much better with this change the very least grey out that stupid button, getting spammed with nonsense in the middle of the screen during a battle is just"
"what is the message here?abuse a feature by spamming the scan button all the time and in the end you get rewarded by a nerf that you made necessary but hits the people trying to kill you? yea, that sounds like a great concept...."
"/signed"
"count me in"
"signed"
"wonders which of the many ******s at ccp came up with that ****...flogg that bastard at fanfest"
"another well thought of change made it onto tq /signed btw"
"signed"
"agreed. 0.1 or at most 0.5"
"/signed"
"signed,this aint good."
"signed!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"failfix undo/signed"
"nearly impossible to scan cloaky ravens down now...remove that quick !"
"signed, this makes me angry!"
"signed!"
"/sighned"
"/signed"
"two seconds delay is horrible, it makes scanning out targets take way too long compared to pre-patch."
"signed"
"/signedseems ccp really do want to kill solo/small gang warfare. how suprising..."
"signed"
"/signedshade threads is best threads."
"/signedi hate the delay - but am slowly adapting to it.the most annoying thing is the damn pop-up right in the middle of the screen - if that could be replaced with the button being greyed out with a timer like that of the probe scanning mechanic then the two second delay may become bearable.perhaps instead of this implementation there could be another? something like a computer processor percentage bar for your scanner? like overloading modules - if you overuse the scanner (i.e. constantly spam it for too long while say ... idk... macro mining in a belt) it renders it unuseable for a long period of time (30/40seconds maybe even a minute.... maybe you even have to dock up and repair it or have some nanite paste handy).it could have a quick cool down period if you haven't overloaded the scanner cpu unit but a long one if you have.this could potentially allow a scout warping around to use the scanner quickly for a while until the pilot leaves warp and has to start actually piloting his ship - clicking buttons other than the scan button - allowing it to cool down. with this in place an active miner in a belt (who isn't macro mining and actually watching local) can use the scanner in the same way as a scout to avoid being caught. however, a macro would not be able to constantly spam the scanner without actually breaking it.encourages active play from both hunter and gatherer - penalizes macro players.thoughts?"
"agreed.this nerfs the game for anyone who ever played it properly. if this does not nerf you then you are doing it wrong.i cannot help but feel that some devs need to sit down and actually look at the way the people who really care about this game actually play instead of how the majority of highsec missionrunners feel. i really dont understand why anyone would pay monthly to grind in order to make money to buy gear to grind more efficiently. go play wow."
"this might actually be the best idea ive read in a long time.p.s. make a cooler cyno effect more like the old one. thats totally a game changing nerf for me :p"
"lame ccp really fing lame"
"signed"
"hey, i like the idea :). although i think the pre-patch scanner system was just fine, i trust ccp if they're saying that the scanner has to be changed in order to improve the performance, and your suggestion is a good solution to that, plus it adds an interesting dimension to the scanning, without completely screwing it up like it is now.let's hope ccp will even read this :)"
"dohsupport"
".5 of a second would barely noticeable, 1 second would be just about bearable. 2 seconds is a gigantic pain when trying to scan down a target quickly.alternatively:this person may be onto something here. linking the rescan delay to the scan resolution of the player's ship (and perhaps making the scanner's results marginally delayed according to the target ship's sig radius too?) might be a way of salvaging this."
"ccp pls think before acting, next time."
"signed"
"signed"
"aah ccp fixers of things that needed no fix, pls revert this.a.s.a.p"
"erm well /signed!"
"what 2 sec ... no way i'm a scout not a miner, i don't have time for this.revert pls."
"/signedratting is so unsafe now"
"/signed"
"supported"
"/signed 2 seconds dellay is stupid , maybe you wanted to do 0.2 seconds between scans that might have worked"
"signed"
"ccp please rethink this change. spend some time optimizing the call to the server, instead of putting in the delay. it really makes solo pvp very frustrating."
"was a horrible change./signed"
"signed"
"same for covo ops."
"this is insane, change it back please./signed"
"signed too"
"hurr threadnaught. i'll bring it up at the next meeting. due to database issues ccp are unlikely to change it back the way it was, however i'll push for a change to a 0.5 or 1.0 second (at most) timer (takes me about that long to adjust my angles, cause i'm pretty pro like that). i certainly agree that 2 seconds is currently far to long."
"/signed.i'd sign it again, but there's probably a 2sec delay and an error message.and it should be noted that these are the two most common ship classes used for scouting and scanning."
"some interesting ideas in this thread - especially the one tying scandelay to shipclasses - but overall a reduction to 0.5sec or even 1sec would also be sufficient.therefore /signed"
"+12 sec is very lonnnnnng. and even in old scifi universes, scanners are more faster...ccp invent the new-old-style-scifi, woot"
"signed. reduce the delay, and bypass csm protocols on this one!"
"/signed"
"2 secs is very longish"
"not supported. was much easier to adapt then i thought it would be. everyone needs to quit qqing."
"signed"
"the cry is strong in this thread.not supported, but its always nice to know where people get their name."
"signed"
"signed,never lagged, never bugged, always nerfed.thus is the life of outlaw.cpp; please stop taking our bread and butter away..."
"really annoying nerf to piracy.signed and supported. hotfix now!"
"/signed"
"terrible implementation of a terrible idea. half a second is reasonable, two is not. and give some feedback when we can use the scanner again, like graying out the button. the pop up message is terrible."
"strongly supported. this isn't an issue of nerfing any one particular playstyle or group, it's a significant blow to one of the most useful general-purpose tools in the game. a delay of 0.5 seconds would have my support, as it would stop the server lag from scanner spam without significantly delaying the use of the scanner for scouting and targetted information gathering."
"signed...."
"/signed this is krepedit, the pop up is beyond moronic btw"
"signed..."
"/signed"
"srsly if there was an issue or exploit with using directional ccp should focus to fix it and not whacking a hammer on game's funcionality like this therfore reducing pvp options in game.it was already goddam hard to scan ratter in belt and tons of way to avoid beeing catched like local / wcs / beeing in system with belts outside scanrange from gates / etc etc. and even with old system it was impossible to catch ratter even in inty when ratter hited warp just after you enter local. this change brings it to the point of absurd. does ccp really want's to limit pvp options to blob warfare vel pos and gatecamps?"
"2 secs is too much - especially when in warp or narrowing the scanner angle on target and re-fixing the loc, but adhd spanking of scanner can go out of the window. also, get rid of that damn on-screen-longer-than-delay-time warning message - that's the biggest pita with current scanner mess.if the reason for the ****ty-fix for the exploit of using scanner to lock de-cloaking ships faster at gates, and causing use adhd-spanking of scanner due to that, maybe the fix would be to get *overview* working better (instead of just hammering dir-scanner to all crap)?"
"1.0"
"/signedfind another solution, this is just making belt piracy even harder then it already is with the all-mighty intel tool that is local chat"
"signed"
"/signed"
"1.0"
"/signedplease revert"
"signed"
"/signedremove this nerf to pvp"
"rediculous change"
"please increase scan timer to 10 secs"
"signed"
"signed, this is the worst thing ccp has ever done."
"signed"
"ccp stop....stop it now"
"/signed"
"i fully support previous scanner.maybe 0.5 sec delay max huh?"
"1.0"
"agree"
"2 seconds seems too long. supported."
"signed."
"agreed.either return to previous or find some way to improve the scanner system to achieve the same load reduction while not interfering with the basic scanner function as it was."
"signed"
"here be angry people with yellow hands"
"/signed"
"indeed"
"just givin my support"
"/signedangry scout/raider/fc since 06 losing sanity here >.<"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"havent logged in but this is stupid"
"same level of gamebreak than cloak nerf and module activation delay."
"signed"
"signed"
"ccp please restore previous directional scanner."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"supporting"
"yes. give us back our scanning backbone."
"supporting"
"supporting"
"supporting"
"/signed. return it back to normal please. nobody wanted this"
"/signednot only applies to the ops situation, but many times in general pvp you need constant updates from scanner as that extra 2 seconds can mean the difference."
"supported"
"/signed"
"i endorse this product"
"i support this"
"signed."
"signed"
"signed the delay makes it horrible to scan out ratters and whatever"
"as a covert ops pilot i have to agree. this change is a significant nerf to scanning safespots."
"supported.....how i can scan ratters now ???!!!!???? ccp pls change it as it was before....it's a crap change...."
"seriously nerfed scouting/solo pvp and buffed ratters/miners. at least reduce the delay to 1 second."
"1.0"
"signed!!warp core stabs, cloaks and now even delay on board scanner? hard time became for hunters."
"siiiiiiiiiiiiiigned."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"this was simply a terrible idea."
"roll it back. delay is stupid and restricts solo and small gang pvp"
"stupid mechanic."
"item: corporation level wardecs can be freely shed in empire by joining/leaving an alliance.solution: when a corporation departs an alliance, any wardec against the alliance is carried onto the corporation and lasts for its natural duration. these 'leftover' wardecs do not count towards wardec costs for other wardecs.thoughts: using an alliance to shed wardecs was previously classified as an exploit by ccp, but i think they didn't want to take the time to enforce it and thus reclassified it as not being one later. this now means that any corporation can shed empire wardecs within 48 hours simply by joining/leaving an alliance, and getting the added bonus of increased wardec cost (both against the original target and against the alliance) for the attacker.this is even more dodgy when used to protect empire pos. example - let's say you wardec my corporation to attack a highsec pos i own. ok, you reinforce the pos so it will come out of reinforced 1.5 days from now. i now go ahead and have my corp leave the alliance. 24 hrs later it is untargetable, and you were not able to declare a new wardec against me because you still had the leftover one from before that was expiring. when you finally can re-wardec my corp, my pos will have already come out of reinforced and been fully repped, ready for me to simply rejoin my alliance and repeat the process.the attacker's only real workaround here is to use secondary corps with pre-voted wardec proposals ready to be dropped on the defending corp the moment it hits the 'leave' button on its alliance. now this corp can join the attacking alliance (you were an alliance weren't you, sorry if you're a corp you have no recourse at all) and share its wardec with that alliance. that's a huge amount of extra work, cost, and rules juggling to accomplish what should have been simple in the first place. you wanted to wardec a corp and kill it for a week, which is exactly what a wardec is supposed to pay for. make it do exactly that."
"fully support this1"
"supported.when you pay to declare war on an alliance for a week, you are paying to declare war on all the corporations in an alliance for a week- if they leave the alliance after war has been declared, they should be subject to the same week of war.the current mechanic makes no sense- anyone who knows what they're doing can make their high-sec pos invulnerable by continuously joining/leaving alliances. if you want to defend your high-sec pos during a wardec, either deathstar it (which is already op enough in high-sec), or take it down for the duration of the wardec.this is a very big issue for anyone pvping in empire, and i hope that the csm gives it high priority."
"last i heard this was a petition-able offense if abused.i suggest you explore that route."
"nope, we already petitioned and they said it was legal, even though they have a dev blog about it being illegal"
"i'll quote a petition of mine when i get home- but no, this is no longer considered an exploit."
"that's consistency.we've had similar discussions about this before (corp-hopping etc to avoid war decs) - i'd frankly like to see the entire war dec mechanic overhauled to be more functional.i think it should be possible to withdraw from a war (surrending or what have you) but it should involve some kind of sacrifice aside from just making a new corp or leaving the one you're in.here's an idea - alliance a war decs alliance b. corp c leaves alliance b to dodge war dec.war dec follows c, and they gain a new (free) war dec from b for being deserters. now everyone from a and b can shoot them.meh, it may be my meds talking. i'm really not feeling well today."
"that could be fun :) though it reminds me a bit to much of the lofty scam- i have the feeling someone would find a way to abuse it."
"u mad?"
"i was fine until you posted. :)"
"there's already a solution to this: wardec the corp that left the alliance. if you want to blow up ships so badly, what's a few million more?don't support it."
"have had experience of this.since tower reinforce can last two days corporations may easily save their towers with the current 24 hour wardecs."
"from the op:please read the arguments put forward before dismissing them."
"and in the time it takes you to wardec them, they've joined and left another alliance, thus invalidating your wardec and making their pos invulnerable. they can do this as often as the please, costing the wardeccing corp significant amounts of isk, and precious time.don't get me wrong- if this mechanic wasn't being utterly abused in its current state, i'd have no problem with it, but for now, high sec poses are invincible to those who know how to bend the rules."
"fully supported!"
"supported."
"not supported because i want to be the titan pilot."
"nonoonnonoononyou need....hmm...30ish titans?popping freighters"
"this is to much.my last petition was mentioning static wormhole.the gm didnt have a f****** clue what i am reffering too.they said that there are no static wormholes !. like wormhole form inside are random right ? right ?."
"boo hoo. get escorts and scouts that sit out of system. problem solved."
"i cannot imagine how ccp thinks the current situation is acceptable. you send the big dog off to announce your product and drop vague hints about how it could potentially change sov mechanics in eve, and then...nothing? no more information? there are so many lingering questions - what are you doing to sov, what other effects are they going to have on the game world, how do you address the short lifespans of consoles.imho, we should have had a devblog an hour after the announcement explaining exactly what the hell they intended to do. instead, all they created was a huge panic on gd and burned a bunch of goodwill.it was a reasonable business decision to keep the product under wraps until they were ready to announce it. that is not so much an issue of trust between our representatives and ccp; it's just how their business needs to work. the real issue here is that now dust is out in the open, why hasn't anyone been briefed on the plan?"
"more info is coming at fanfest. csm might get more at their meeting, but obviously you and i won't see that. remember, this game is not the next patch, it's 2-3 patches away. vagueness at this point and time is both normal and acceptable."
"you are a complete ****** mate."
"2/10 troll for the op1/10 for csm delegates replying on it and justifying themselves."
"1. i love it when someone that has never architected a scalable huge internet system suggests that more servers solves all the problems. laws of physics say you are wrong assuming more iron makes it all work.2. wrong.3. move along, nothing to see here!4. :-)5. start studying industry trends, or maybe like me regularly have lunch with your friends actually in the games business (which i was for years) and hear them say what i just said.isslerps. please elect herschel for the csm next term! i don't always agree with him but he has passion and has really thought about eve. he would make a great csm!"
"it really is a conspiracy to ruin eve"
"establish a 5/14 truth commission now!dust was an inside job!if you wind this video footage forward to 00:59 you can clearly see the megathron is hit by a guided missile, and not a hijacked airliner at all!"
"1) of course some of it depends on how things are constructed - if, for example, you had every dust player in one place at one time, you'd make a puddle out of google's server farm. but we're spreading them over 50,000 planets, which is a problem that lends itself neatly to parallelization. much as i'd love to see the games closely linked(e.g., orbital bombardment), i don't expect it, so the players can be on entirely new, self-contained servers, instead of adding to the eve ones that do tend to suffer from \"everybody in one place at one time\" issues. add to that the fact that everything will be split into sectors, and i don't expect much problem making the servers parallel enough to handle a population bigger than eve's if the game is a success, any more than blizzard has a problem running a game 30x our size. 2) care to elaborate? we pay ccp for a service, and they provide it. what they do with their profits is their business - we don't have any claim to the money we pay them past what's in the eula. yes, there were fewer eve developers than there theoretically could have been, but i don't see why we have any right to get annoyed by that. it's not our money anymore. 5) oh, i lament the decline of the pc as a gaming platform too, and consider consoles to be generally inferior. my preferred genre(strategy) is still fairly pc-centric, but the idea of playing a fps with a controller still feels like gimping yourself intentionally. i'm just not worried that ccp will forget eve, even if other developers forget their pc roots. and i'm totally going to use that last bit if i run next time, just so you know"
"at least his campaign would be run based on something other than his possession of boobs, unlike some of our current csm."
"but my boobs are hawt"
"postfu!!!oh and de' you don't really seem to know what your talking about so its not really a surprise that your no longer in the gaming industry."
"i suggest you eat some of that humble pie yourself know it all."
"??i never was in the gaming industry?wtf are you talking about?"
"my bad. was talking about isler dainze."
"hypocritical much drake?try reading the trash isler, not de' was posting and get back to me."
"i support this. not only is it good for identifying theft (after it occurs - it doesn't protect from theft, so its not really a nerf to spying per se), but it helps track down items that might have vanished for less sinister purposes (someone forgot to return a bpo, etc). it would also be nice if we could remotely view containers; for the most part containers would be more useful as mere organizational tools than storage containers(gsc aside)."
"perhaps, but it seems a bit crazy that it's ok to gank a hauler with billions on board, which can be sold and plex brought, rather than just getting the plex in the first place *shrug*.should be transportable imo too!"
"of all the weird things ccp does, i have to say i think this restriction is a fairly reasonable one. if plexes become transportable, noobs will be bringing them to jita in their ibis, and when they get ganked, it will result in numerous (albeit unjustified) petitions and complaints to ccp, which will do nothing but slow the process down for those with legitimate problems.much fun as it would be to pop a badger mark i full of the things, it would cause more problems than it's worth."
"as far as i see it, ccp is just trying to prevent legal issues.right now a plex can only change hands if the owner sells it. he may sell it at a bad price, but he still has to sell it.if plex could get stolen, things might get rather messy, because plex are a direct transfer of real world money. sure, you can rob people of billions worth of assets, but those assets have no direct connection to hard currency. indirect in some cases, but never direct, since money cannot be directly translated into items or isk. plex have a direct hard currency connection. always. that may also be the reasy why even a multimillion isk ship can be trashed, but plex can't be trashed. they can only be sold, traded, or used."
"i too am a matar pilot and since i recently got a few mil sp in shield tanking, as much as i love the temp, it has no use to me. mael it is.now when i first started playing eve, i was told that matar ships were the equivalent of the largest engine you can find, strap a cockpit and some guns and there is your ship. duct tape and all. i don't see that. while like many people here have stated very clearly, that the frigs and cruisers are truly kick ass, i can say that i feel the bs class of matar is also lacking. i thought one of the ideas of matar ships was versatility? yes it isn't an all out dps ship, and if the initial idea was to give them more speed and agility, why cant we keep that?maybe make its base speed closer to 150m/s, or even 175m/s, allowing it to have true and distinct tactics over dps based ships. slap on a ab or mwd and allow it to be the kiting ship that it once was. i for one feel that if the speed was significantly faster than the other bss, while the dps is lower, it has a player required tactic that can bring it back into existence.with the alpha strike issue that i see others posting, just a stupid idea here, but increase the time between shots and seriously ramp the damage. make it the hard hitting, tho slow firing ship that arty was best known for. maybe only on the 1400s and keep the 1200s faster firing (obviously).but back to basics, and as someone earlier has posted. let the races have their distinct advantages over the other races. i am just thinking bring speed and tracking to matar bs ships so that the hit % vs other races decreases. make the pilot have to use evasive maneuvers rather than fly straight towards the enemy with blasters blazing or just sit and tank with changing of crystals for optimal.just some ideas that stick to what the descriptions of matar ships advertise. anything, some love somewhere please?"
"go back to lala land tortugan you've obviously never flown an mitari battleshp in pvp or for that sake in pve, the best and only good thing i can say about minmatar is we rock vs angels and amarr suks."
"do you not understand my point? if minmatar were top dog in battleships, they'd have everything in the bag. as it stands, minmatar are the kings of sub-bs pvp- sleipnir, hurricane, vagabond, rupture etc isn't enough for you? yes, minmatar bs are weaker overall than other races of perectly equal skills- but for 2 reasons, it doesn't matter:1) it's not a significant enough disadvantage to offset the difference in a well-fit maelstrom versus an average fit hyperion (or other tier 3 bs)2) even if the disadvantage is significant in the bs class, it's not as significant as the advantage minnies have over just about every other class.yet again:every race is good at something, but no race is good at everything.get it yet?if you don't like minmatar ships, cross-train into a mage and cancel your subscription. your asking for petty changes here and there that don't make a difference in the swing of things- the devs who'd be responsible for making unneccessary tweaks like these could be working on making dust 514 something awesome, or finally redoing the ui, or finishing ambulation."
"since the speednerf and other changes minmatar isnt the king of subbs sized warfare anymore. minmatar is good, but far away from being king. like i already said, any race has some good ships and some bad ships in every class. but bs sized minmatarships like the bs themself or marauders are utterly crap compared with amarr or caldari.the buff is badly needed and only because you arent minmatar doesnt mean its unnecessary.i accept your point of view, but the time minmatar being the fotm of subbs sized ships is over. and the bs disatvantage is not only significant, its huge!"
"the problem with this is that speed and agility are not the dominant factors in bs fights. damage and tank are the dominant factors and minmatar lack both. hell you can get more close range dps on a maelstrom by mounting blasters and largely better dps with pulses if you can keep your range...something it can't do against its gallente counterpart because {gasp} the maelstrom isn't the fastest tier 3 bs.the maelstrom is a ship that can't win anything but a one on one fight because it either has to get in under pulse's tracking range or stay outside of a hyperion's blaster range. even then it depends entirely on what range that fight starts at and not any capability of the maestrom itself. all things being equal it would succeed in neither before it dies simply because it would be outrun by a hyperion so it can't outrange it and it would have to traverse a likely 10km gap while webbed which would take too long.now that we have that covered think about how speed and agility effect arty. it has horrible tracking so they actually make arty worse.the lower levels of it function perfectly well but large projectiles are just freaking broken. hell reduce the sig resolution of large projectiles to about 350 and it would function pretty well because the increased accuracy would boost make up for its short falls and then it could effectively fight in falloff."
"you definitely shouldn't have to have a \"parking alt\" to continue to enjoy the game after you've gotten one of these floating coffins of fun./signed alot cause i want an aeon, but won't do it if moraguth can't ever fly his other ships :("
"first of all you can train any race drones for any character, so having drones of diff types is cool.besides everyone knows amarr are already atop the food chain with their long range, high damage lasers."
"a boost to make them a viable option would be nice, they're just useless atm."
"this seems to be a well thought out suggestion.it gets my support."
"only if they \"nerf\" err balance amarr battleships in line with all other races herschel."
"i fail to see the relevance this has to anything in this thread...on a different note, supported."
"its got everything to do with it dribble, not only do you have the best tank range and dps now you want the best drones. well hopefully you wont get it but if you cry loud enough and since the devs love amarr i'm guessing you will."
"anyone can use anyone's drones. i'm trying to balance drones here, not battleships. if you want my opinion on battleships, look at the turret rebalance thread from a couple weeks ago, where i specifically talked about boosting blasters and autocannons, because pulses are too good. thing is, an attempt to make amarr drones marginally usable(because that's all they'd be) has nothing to do with that, so i'm limiting my discussion here to the drones. also, i've been playing long enough that the phrase \"the devs love amarr\" is incredibly funny to me. i think that might be the first time i've ever seen it used non-ironically."
"there's three game loopholes that are easy to fix and have been mentioned but never addressed. i'd like to see ccp get on the ball and get these crossed off.item: self-destruct should generate killmails according to the npc killmail generation rulessolution: this should use the exact same mechanic that is currently being used when an npc gets the final blow on a ship kill. the lossmail is generated normally and sent to the dead player's corp. the killmail is sent to the last other player to aggress this ship before it died.thoughts: killmails are a permanent log of ship destruction within the game. they're a great source of history and enjoyed by many players. right now, the only way to dodge one of these is to self-destruct. unfortunately, self-destruct is actually pretty trivial to do any time you're flying a heavily tanked ship as the enemy did not bring obscenely excessive firepower. this is particularly true for capital ships.this problem was further aggravated by the addition of heat. now any ship that is going to self-destruct can overheat all its defensive modules to gain additional lifespan. yes, the attackers can overheat their modules too, but remember that they aren't going to be dead at the end of it, so that's just extra cost for them to do so at all. large ships successfully tackled and killed by smaller ones is something eve should revel in, as it shows tactics > bulk. don't continue to spit on these engagements."
"note that this topic has a lengthy thread when posted in the feature forum a fair while back too. you can read that here:"
"fix please, this is very, very annoying:"
"there's no reason that this shouldn't already be the case."
"this topic has already been done to death in the assembly hall.just one of many"
"supported."
"1.0"
"so stop wasting trips to iceland and make it actually happen."
"fully agreed!"
"1.0"
"yep. no reason why there shouldnt be a km from selfdestructing."
"de' is not a csm member. you might want to direct your complaint to those who are."
"item: ships that have been actively aggressed within the last 15 minutes should not dissapear from space.solution: logoff timer reset when a ship is aggressed, so that if you're actively being aggressed, no 15 minute logoff occurs.thoughts: with giant fleet fights becoming more and more common, the quick solution to a losing capital battle is to through your fleet into siege mode, turn your reppers on, and log. sure, you'll lose a few ships, but eve's frequent struggles to deal with large battles, odds are you won't lose that many and most of your fleet will get off.screw that. if people want to retreat from a battle, then use in-game means to do so. if a ship has aggressed you within the last 15 minutes, then your ship should still be there. if you d/c or desync in the middle of a battle, then log back on and keep playing. though i think you'll find an awful lot of people claiming those excuses are really just trying to save face for a ship they are looking for an out of game way to save."
"supported if its extended to all ships."
"like hell ccp will just simply accept that... considering there is no possible way to track whether the log off is legitimate or a disconnection.and no i'm not going to entertain it or educate you because i already have in other threads... look it up on your own time."
"correct me if i'm wrong- i've been lucky enough not to have to deal with loggofski's:-if a player jumps into a camp, then logs off from cloak but gets tackled before warping off, he then sits there for 1 minute before disappearing magically-if a player jumps into a camp, decloaks, gets tackled, and then logs off, he now has 15 minutes before magically disappearing?it makes sense to me that in scenario 2, if he's being shot at, his 15 minute timer stays at 15 minutes until he is no longer being shot at, and only then does it start counting down. if that is what your proposing, then you have my support."
"you are responsible for your internet connection. not ccp, and not your opponent. if you feel you've made an indisputable counter argument feel free to link it.point has already been raised by larkonis. however would like to see the proposed measures extended to include the suggestions in the op."
"oh ok.. so your responsible for the internet connection breakage when some joe shmo trips over the damn backbone in his backhoe and disconnects you so you lose your multi-billion isk ship and then you scream at ccp with a petition..not as easy as you thought it was... eh?hence why ccp has not made a move to change any of the current mechanics."
"logging off to save capital fleets is simply ridicilous."
"i'll support it if it only applies to capitals and t2/t3 ships. :)"
"what does this even mean :p?a prerequisite for participating in an mmorpg is that you have a working internet connection. breaks in connection is an inherent risk that you accept from your isp.i couldn't care less if you're in a noob ship or a titan, principle remains the same reagardless.disconnection due to server issues should obviously be petitionable."
"so basicly, the timer starts when a ship is first agressed, but continuing to agress a ship has no effect?in such case, supported!"
"big +1"
"not everyone lives in uk / sweden and has a flawless connection.i have often to connect with usb internet keys and there's no way in hell i can prove to ccp it was a disconnect and not a logoffski that made me lose the ship (the same mechanic applies to pve btw).other evenings the network backbone ccp are using lags horribly and disconnects 50 times a day. another time no player can prove (maybe send 10 pages of traceroute) why he disconnected.in other countries there are still the older technology isps (usually you only have _1_ available in your town and pay 60 euros a month for a crap connection) who book dynamic ips and force disconnect every 1-2 hours and you can't reconnect before 20-30 seconds (say the ship bye bye).also, what about the many who suffer from the \"socket closed\" issue (dev tagged 38 pages long big thread in the issues & workarounds forum) since 2008 and the issue is still not gone?so for 1 that cheats his way off your killboard once a week, you are going to penalize the hundreds who disconnect daily?"
"disconnect = just log back in. if your internet connection sucks (which it doesnt for most people, i dunno where you get the sweden/uk idea from) then thats your problem tbhif a ship is being shot at it shouldnt just disappear because you log out."
"\"sucks\" is quite of a freeform concept. when using mobile it's easy to be disconnected while the receiver adjusts from hdspa to umts and then back and it takes up to 30 seconds per switch, often bouncing 2-3 switches per adjustment."
"can't say i've ever seen the abuse you mention, but if that's happening, then this mechanic deserves to be looked into."
"seriously when you get disconnected from server, its a pain having to warp in and see your drones die as you slow boat it to pick them up.ccp should make a recover drone feature (like there is for probes), so when you warp back in you click recover drones and they return at normal speed to drone bay. to stop it being abused make it so once selected the drones must return to the drone bay before they can be used again and also that no drones can be recovered whilst you have active drones in space. so that way you cannot keep resending new drones to say attack and then disconnecting and recovering them while sending drones back out. you can only recover drones when you have none active in space."
"just out of interest how is that gonna get done, drones (unless theyre fighter class) cant warp probes can warp :)-w"
"i'd say you have to be on the grid with the drones, just like you do today. it just saves you the trouble of having to fly around scooping them back up.supported"
"yeah thatll be cool."
"strongly supported."
"just good, old-fashioned common sense."
"i'm not going to support, as i enjoy stealing peoples drones when they leave 'em behind.however, i think you should be able to tractor your own drones. you have a greater chance of saving them after a warp out/disconnect, and you still have a chance to losing 'em to someone else's scoop."
"i'm not sure the op's suggestion would prevent someone else on grid from scooping them. in any case, while i support the idea, i agree that they should remain scoopable by other people, so long as they are not being directly controlled at that time."
"supported if they are within your drone control range. otherwise, this could be abused by warping back to a belt/planet at 100km (or further) and recovering drones in relative safety after a fight.p.s. op needs to stop stealing my cans in his rookie ship outside 4-4 :)"
"the way i read his proposal was, you'd get on grid and recover drones and they would reconnect. thus no longer scoopable by a third party.while i do not do lvl 4 missions with t2 heavies/sentries because of the risk of disconnect, i still would rather have uncontrolled drones just be tractorable.just my opinion."
"making them tractor-able by the owner would definately be a plus. no need to add a crapload of code just to recover a few drones."
"this. supported."
"wtf you do next ? free titan skills for every noob ? i mean t2 was always expensive isk wise and skill wise, not that you have some skills now u wany to have oportunity to cheap produce ? cmon like if real world we have rich ****s and poor kids but its gonna stay that way, we got a lot by invention now you wanna more ? u got decent iskies in empire you got safe wars in empire ( fw) cmon now u want t2 to be moved away from 0.0 ? i mean in few months you should ask that t2 stuff will be build with tritanium only cmon, put some efford in this game and stop whinning like a *****es cause its really sad, since i joined this game ive achived more and more but now game with those all fixes adds etc got really boring and there is to much monotony in it, every thing is getting ballanced, few more fixed and 10 yrs old players will be balanced with ****ing noobs, you may get more new players but even more old quitting, more tears plz how hard this game is ******s"
"not supported"
"tl;dr*yawn*not supported"
"current policy:i lose a ship to a glitch/exploit/etc and petition it. should ccp decide to reimburse my ship, i get my ship back minus any dropped items. issue:ccp will not reimburse dropped items, because they'd have to do it one of two ways:1) duplicate the dropped items and return them to your hangar- which would be too easily exploitable (i kill a friend with expensive mods on his ship using an exploit, he gets his ship reimbursed, and i keep whatever mods drop)2) trace the actual items and reverse any related transactions/exchanges to return the items to your hangar. (in other words, random guy loots my wreck and sells my mods to another guy, that guy then has them on his ship- ccp would take them off his ship, reverse the transaction, and notify all involved parties)proposed solution:take advantage of option 2 for only losses worth over 50 million isk. this way, ccp don't get bogged down with having to retrace random item drops- but it allows players experiencing a significant loss to get a reasonable reimbursement.i've lost the same megathron navy issue twice now- once to a concord glitch, and once to a gm detonating 70 shuttles outside jita 4-4 in the middle of a 4 on 13 fight, causing me to desynch and log back in in station in a new pod. both times, my ships were reimbursed, but both times, i lost ~100m worth of dropped loot.csm, please consider raising this proposal to ccp."
"negatory. i do not want random mods disappearing off of my ship because of thier historical involvements.nor do i want random money dissapearing from my wallet, possibly putting it into the red, because i sold an item someone lost."
"a reasonable argument- however ccp already has this policy when dealing with isk that originated from an illegal source- in other words, if an illegal isk buyer buys your items and gets caught, ccp will remove the money from your wallet and, depending on your involvement with the isk buyer, give your item back. seems logical to me that exploits & glitches should fall under the same general category as illegal gameplay."
"if it's an exploit that implies that the killer did something wrong, i'm for reversing the transactions, and if they go -isk, so be it. if it's a game bug, i don't think that reversal is a viable option. somebody has to get shafted by the exploit - either the guy who spent money assuming he had earned large sums off the drop, or the guy who lost a lot on the drop - and i don't see a pressing reason why we have to reimburse the latter at the expense of the former. it's no more just, and it'd take up a lot of gm time."
"i think it is a good idea, pending there is a cap to how many runs you can have at max.also, make the number of decryptors required to invent on the bpc proportionate to the number of runs compared to the standard max. ie: if 10 runs was standard max, and you had merged it to 50, then it would require 5 decryptors instead of 1."
"in that case big stamp of supported"
"since carriers were \"too versatile\", capital module sizes were changed from 1,000m3 to 4,000m3 to prevent carriers from carrying all viable fits with them.now that the carrier's own cargo bay has been ruthlessly trimmed, any chance we can get cap modules dropped in size a bit? not necessarily back to 1,000m3 but maybe 2,000m3?not sure if i'm overlooking something obvious. the corporate hangar is still 10k of course, but 3k fuel bay isn't exactly a lot and i know that for field ops i used a good chunk of my corporate hangar for fuel too."
"suport it, carriers are imposibile to fitt in space now."
"actually a good thought want it!"
"do this oh yes"
"looks reasonably"
"i support any batch-install overlords!"
"i agree in principle -- industry and research ui badly needs a pass -- but your proposal should include specific feedback in an organized fashion."
"can we please have 'highway to the dangerzone' start playing?"
"here - repeat as necessary."
"the volume of the container stays the same when you repackage it."
"same with pretty much everything that isn't a ship. your point?"
"i'm guessing he wants to be able to move gscs to 0.0 more than a few at a time, as cargo rather than as a box. like shipping cardboard boxes flat rather than assembled."
"thats exactly it. if we can collapse complex things like ships shouldn't we be able to collapse boxes?"
"i agree surely if we can do it here on earth in the 21st century the people of new eden have figured it out"
"wouldn't the natural solution to this be to seed a bpo?"
"this"
"look carefully at what i wrote !!the pilot gets to be a valid target for the war, not his corp. the warning message will deter idiots, the alt reppers will be a viable target, then a war dec is just that, all out open war, none of the alt rr bull**** !!"
"then change all of my letters to pilots.same damn problem.learn to play the game kid.... adapt or die."
"ok, i don't know if this impacts other towers, as i only run gallente & shadow towers right now. about 3-4 months ago i think, ccp did something to improve the looks of them. however, that was bugged causing the towers to flip flop all over the screen, distort into odd shapes taking over the entire screen, and to generally make the game very laggy when at a tower. you can do stuff there, you just have to use your overview exclusively cause often you cannot see anything on the screen. doesn't happen to every tower though, just about 1 in 3 or 4, and it sometimes impacts a tower, sometimes doesn't.now, i didn't read 100% of everything in regards to this bug and ccp's response, but from what friends who were following it said, with the patch we were got yesterday, it was supposed to be fixed. well, it isn't. nobody seams to know why it isn't - so i figured i would ask here, cause i know csm is supposed to track these things. any word?"
"no, i want noobish ceptors&dictors dying to my bomb whenever they think it's cool to camp a gate with mwd on"
"on capstable ships i love the idea to sit still but have my mwd on prior to fight going (e.g. allytournament) or staging in pos or sumfing.-w"
"just thinking out loud i guess, but hear me out.the scanner nerf has a lot of people upset since faster ships are now at a terrible disadvantage when using it as they fly well past their scan range in the 2 seconds it takes to repeat a scan. how about allowing some ships, eg the ones used mostly for scouting like interceptors and covops, to vary their warp speed a bit. not down to freighter speeds or anything, but maybe from 25%-50% to 100% of max. too slow would allow them to essentially hide in big systems by warping 100au at 0.1au/sec, but allowing an interceptor/covops to warp slower while performing system sweeps would give them back some more utility in the face of the scanner nerf.thoughts?"
"why a workaround if they can just fix the scanning bug?"
"it's not a bug though, it's intentional."
"they really need to fix warp acceleration before this could have any effect whatsoever...."
"if you're changing surrounding mechanics to fix this interaction, i'd prefer to increase directional range away from it's-obvious-ccp-used-a-signed-int km to something longer. this change just feels a little too narrow and confusing."
"i was wondering for those pilots out there that are in small corps 10 and under and lone pilots if ccp is ever going to come up with a small alliance version... i mean if i could afford a billion isk i would totaly be in a proteus or a kronos right now as it stands i can afford what i can afford i go through doing missions do the occasional wormhole and so forth .... but if ccp could come up with say a collaborative skill that could bring together 5 or less corporations with fewer than a total of 50 pilots no corp being greater than 10 pilots it would be easier to put up pos and maybe even brave 0.0 space although ultimately we would be prey to those bigger alliances .... but we could run lvl 5s and so forth .... just throwing it out there."
"you can set each other blue already and just work together.and if you got 5 corps its 200m for each.so if each corp has 10m members its 20m per member. voila. suddenly an alliance is cheap."
"alliances don't make it easier to exist in 0.0 space. they do about three things:1) give you access to sovereignty mechanics2) let you share some types of pos lab slot(me/pe) with allies3) change wardecs from 2 mil/dec/week, max 3 to 50 mil/dec/week, no maxother than that, they're just a chat channel and a mailing list. from the sounds of it, you don't need any of those things. you want an alliance, set standings to the other corps and start a chat channel. it's not like you'll actually be taking sov with 50 guys who can't sc**** up a spare billion."
"there's no \"vendor trash\" in eve. 95% of the buying market (if not more) is player-controlled. if you want to sell in bunches, put it in a low-reserve auction contract. be prepared to accept less than what it's worth for people to put up with the hassle of buying a giant messy pile of junk."
"and yet, this does nothing to solve the problem as presented, as people would just work on the agents with the highest quality in the lowest (highsec) security.which is basically how it happens now, doesn't address the mission hubs or the safe income.anyway, cannot support this. while i agree that l4 missioning needs to be nerfed (keep in mind that it is my primary income and what i spent much of my eve time doing), it likely needs to be done in a way that won't upset the--and let's be honest here, keeping in mind that i'm one too--fat carebears suckling at the teat of their l4 agents.these guys can't adapt. worse yet, they'll refuse to. the ones that don't unsubscribe will continue working on their hubs, will accept the smaller bounties and just keep going.likewise, addressing the problem by nerfing dropped loot or by moving l4s altogether outside of highsec would end up with similarly bad/ineffective results.alternate solution?add a flag to agents marking whether or not the agent is located in lowsec. if so, multiply the agent mission prize and bonus prize by a factor of ten, and double the lp reward. this includes l5 missions.appealing to their greed is a good way to make them react. after all, those scam contracts wouldn't work if they weren't so greedy."
"i certainly think high/low/nullsec risk vs reward needs some heavy rebalancing- but i have to aggree with the other naysayers on this one- your proposed solution, while novel in many ways, would cause a lot of unintended problems."
"you failed"
"signed"
"why something nice /old effect/ changed to some ugly buble i never understood that myself..i too wanna get back old cool awesome effect.. ccp keep changing warp effect or other things.. well do a \"usefull change\" for a \"change\" and get back our jump effect back!"
"1.0"
"signed."
"i'm concerned that this is a break from the promise ccp has made to its player base that all game updates and new content would be free.i also take a very skeptical stand on the response that not by much. the fact of the matter is that target area coding for consoles fps simply opens the targetable area larger than the pc by implementing to varying degree auto targeting. on some console games it's overt, a setting that a player can toggle! on other game its simply hardcoded and adjusted along with difficulty settings, if at all. this is done to compensate for the gross control those tiny joystick provide to players of consoles.whatever the true reason (i.e. money) console game development is simply cheaper. now to those that beleive that there is any other superiority the console game have over pc becouse of the miriade of configuration. let me say. you dont know what your talking about. there is no pc programmer that writes his code, be it game or buisness to hardware, unless his companny sells the specific hardware. thats why pc game players know to keep the latest drivers updated, becouse programmers write to the latest \"standar drivers\" not to hardware. another thing to consider is that all games ps3, xbox, wii... are written first on a pc in an emulator runtime enviroment so consoles will always be behind the curve for speed and graphics power than pcs.someone mention thiswe have all be awaiting \"'encarna' the ambulation upgrade\". i hope this is not an admittance of defeat for ccp to actually implement what they have hyped for so long. on the other hand this would be great if our veterans could interacting with the new player base providing them with the capabilities to be transported to planets were the fps game style could make a difference in holding/gaining systems. just imagine what influence a ship captain can hold on the goings on of ground warfare even if its simply the vehicle to introduce more resources into a battlefieldproviding and transporting weapons, men, and ground vehicles could be a nice business. it could also create a real smuggling sub profession as well. soveranty would only be affected were we that hold space chose to allow and/or bring forth the grownd component. my imagination explodes with possibilities but nothing will be even possible if they don't begin with the first step."
"why do people keep talking about transporting troops.... can't see how that fits in at all... no console user is going to wait at a loading screen while a player freighter moves them into position.there is a difference between console and pc shooters.* gta4 on console features auto-targetting.* gta4 on pc uses the mouse and you can get 100% headshots with ease.* halo on the console uses the joysticks very well and gives fine-grained control in a way that becomes an extension of the player.* halo on pc? haven't tried it but likely works quite well, the style of halo should lend itself to a mouse.so there are different methods and some cross-over better then others.i'm just really starting to think if we're going to have bottom-feeding sub-capsuleer mindless plebs then they may as well be kids playing on consoles. makes it good for role-play and immersion when the pleps are considered just that in rl as well as game."
"<3 keyboard and mouse"
"supporting!"
"supporting"
"supporting"
"only problem i have about it being on pc is.. would it be available for both os supported by eve (windows/mac) or exclusive windows?"
"i refuse to buy a console, not because i can't but because lately companies seem to be trying to force everyone to buy a console."
"supportin"
"im sorry but i have played console fps's online on console and i can tell you now.... the pc and console community are not compatible, 95% of console gamers are complete ******s.and why should we depend on these dust troops for sovereignty, i know we don't want pos warfare to affect sovereignty but relying on people from a completely different console is just stupid."
"supporting"
"supporting"
"i have a ps3 but eve players are pc players.so ccp what's happening to you.making \"dusk 514\" only to consoles mean you're after that big juicy fish \"money\".well i dont care about it but atleast give that game to us as well who really lives in eve universe."
"supporting"
"... an fps tie-in for eve, on consoles only???wtf, ccp?"
"supporting"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i googled dust 514 i bit i saw that everybody except the present eve community loves itwhen dust will come out only for console be ready for a lot of new accounts.but will it stay the same eve we all love? i doubt iteve will change thats for sure,if you like it fine be happy with it.if you don,t,welcome to the club m8 (if things turn out what i am afraid for)and for those idiots who want to scream give me your stuff!!!at the moment eve is gonna be as i am afraid of i simply trash everything spent all of my isk and trash againno point in giving my isk in an economy i don,t believe in anymore.microsoft got its grasp on the next good pc-game,that was never good news for pcplayersbefore somebody wants to flame me about this.i respect your opinion ,plz respect mine!!!!"
"signed"
"i agree with most of the original post, but wanted to add something concerning this bit.there are enough online gamers that dual box games, especially in a game of the intensity that i expect dust to have, that the idea of someone running vent on their pc or laptop even though they are playing on the console will not be entirely uncommon. this should be especially true for the leader types among the ground pounders. frankly, those are probably the only ones you'll want in your vent server anyway."
"i think it will be like this:defensive space forces have to matter. waiting on the xbox while being transported would not be popular no matter how good the shipboard casino.i think we will have to transport and install some sort of device on the planet which will open the ability for dusters to teleport in. i think this process will have to require enough time and effort that it won't be super easy to slip in and open an invasion before the defenders can do something about it. mere conjecture at this point of course."
"you think throwing isk at them is the only influence you could have? sounds like giving up without firing a shot at the mere rumor that an enemy exists out there somewhere.the one clip released so far makes it pretty clear that the space and ground combat systems will influence each other. it is not merely the ground determining the fate of sovereignties.without details, one must speculate as to the form of space combat incfluencing ground combat, but there are only a few options really.1.) troop transport. i think you can right this off as being conducive an an unreasonably boring console game, but there is an analog to troop transport that would still fit the same strategic role without the tedium.why not make ships transport and install a device that enables the ability of invaders to teleport in? make the process time consuming enough that defensive space forces have a realistic chance to react and prevent the invasion altogether. doesn't this actually sound like fun? space battles with more at stake than the mere destruction of the other sides ships.2.) ground support. i would not be surprised of some sort of orbital bombardment is present. that again is a way for eve players to have a significant impact on the fate of the planet instead of just hiring more mercs.3.) logistics. troops should require supplies and should have some sort of penalty if not being supplied. this should be easier for the system defender, hopefully.4.) anything the offensive fleet has to accomplish to pull off a successful invasion is something the defending fleet can interfere with.instead of condemning something that we know next to nothing about, how about keeping an open mind and looking at how this might add some very fun elements for the eve players. then of course, there is the aspect of profitability. the better ccp does, the longer this game sticks around and the more effort that can be dumped into enhancing it."
"with the new dev blog: audio in eve online by ccp baldur, and with the popping issues resolved, what is left for the csm to ask of ccp?i suggest that the csm inquire as to how audio in eve will be made immersive. what are your ideas?your ideas and suggestions as well as continued support of the csm approaching ccp on this are appreciated."
"please go back to the time when u were sitting around the table and discussing lag prevention. please try to remember who first suggested the idea of delaying the scanner. now please fire him."
"signed"
"the 2 second delay timer would be ok, if you also delay the local by 2 seconds. btw why does local not get delayed do boost performance !? should give epically more performance than bugging the few pvpers who actually use the power of the range scanner..."
"gayest thing ever implemented."
"utterly horrible, quickly narrowing a ship on scan down to his location is pretty much the core solo or small gang skill atm and you just went ahead and made it impossible to find a belt ratter or specific ship in a system.do you guys even play this game anymore? 15-30 seconds at max if you dont want to break anything, or even better fix the ****ing servers instead.-gj"
"this sucks bad change it back"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed, this is pretty rediculous tbh... good thinkin ccp"
"u have my support."
"agreed"
"yeah."
"anybody who argues against this obviously doesn't scan, or doesn't do it as efficiently as others.if you don't reset the 2 second delay, at least make that god awful notification banner go away.it sticks around even after the delay is over, so you never really know when you can scan again. horrible change"
"adapt or die noob!!! carebears stink!oh wait... wrong thread. please carry on complaining."
"lose it"
"agree with this, scouts need some love from ccp..."
"1.0"
"this new scanner change is terrible."
"/signedway to long of a delay... change it back."
"i like it.the timer is a good length.stops the exploits.means i'm no longer having the grid robbed of resources by a few ppl spamming the server.less lag for all, yay!"
"not only has this made my piracy about 5x slower... it has made it more irritating than fun"
"where was the person with common sense when this was put into game, was he out for coffee?"
"i guess no dev actually uses the directional scanner in-game."
"this is way too limiting, supported."
"signed. this was a very bad change for everyone both hunter and hunted, please reverse it."
"yep, makes scanning near impossible in a lot of situations."
"plz undo this... it was fine before patch"
"signed"
"signed"
"one step forward, two steps backwardor welcome in the world of microsoft"
"rawr i support this!"
"scan nerf is unneccesary, ccp just wants carebears and isk buyers to get away comfortably in their macro ravens and miners.ccp, why are your priorities so ****ed up? seriously, do something right."
"if there has to be timer, make it 0.5 sec. that prevents scanning and will be way manageable for real use."
"i fully support to move back to the old scanner system. before the patch i hadn't thought it would be that bad. but damn, 2 seconds are long."
"2 seconds is too long. especially since it seems a premature click resets the timer for another 2 seconds without actually producing any scan result."
"i don't approve of the changes introduced in 'crypa 1.5"
"this is why ccp recently banned over 9000 isk farmer accounts recently? from what i'm aware the change came about due to these people causing a load on the server by constantly spamming their scanners and whatnot."
"15 pages; took most of downtime to read. lots of experienced players in here make me believe this is more than just the whine du-jour.however, calling people carebear, macroer, farmer, etc., doesn't help make your point. the style of game play you prefer doesn't make your account any more valuable than anyone else's. asking for changes reflecting the way you play, where you live, or the ship you fly, does not represent any kind of balance. ignoring the fact that 2 seconds scan does not leave gaps in the brief time that any ship is at top warp speed doesn't help the case, either.ok, so throwing those posts out, to me this is another heavy-handed work-around that should have been dealt with differently. there's many other ways the exploit could have been dealt with, as pointed out in several posts. a whole overhaul of the scanner could have reduced lag, while eliminating the server load caused by constant spamming of scan.this quick fix only made the deficiencies of the onboard scanner stand out more than before. put an auto-timer on it; greyed out while unavailable. stop the auto-scan when you change degree setting. try a one-second delay; combined with a proper fix of the scanner should make the game playable for every style.bad fix is not good, i'll sign.edit to click support"
"/signed"
"get rid of it please o/"
"reducing server load by removing or cripling vital game features is not acceptable.just undo this \"feature\".don't listen to players who claim the scanning delay is fine. they are either trolls or have never used the directional scanner."
"remove please"
"...why??? remove/minimize the delay... scanner was fine before this."
"personally, i'd say i'm average at using the d-scan. this change now affords me no room for improvement.change it back plz ccp."
"wow, what an unfortunate turn of event. when its carebears that whines and cry, pirates and pvp'ers just have to say adapt and die turdbrain and go play wow.well, thats what i can say to you homo's. adapt and stfu ffs.all your whining are epic...an epic fail that is lmao...have fun with the new feature lmao im sure i am having fun"
"i tried the new scanner out today and was really disappointed in the way it has been changed, its allmost impossible to smoothly scan down a ship in the way it used to be, and its so anoying. wee need the old scanner back!"
"signed"
"ccp obviously didn't think this through. instead of crippling scanning maybe get rid of some more macro players if u wanna speed up the servers. this is total fail ccp and u know it."
"supported, it sucks badly in w-space as well when you try to figure out at what planet and distance you'll have to start probing.especially when you try to pinpoint the distance to within a half or less au it wastes lots of time."
"please please remove it"
"lol i love the fact someone brought this up, as i was going to it soon.there was never any lag i've noticed associated with the scanner, and even if it lagged, at least it wasn't a constant 2 seconds lag. i try to be supportive and constructive when i see an issue that i think ccp handled incorrectly - but (excuse my language) wtf were they thinking?anywho, supported."
"1.0"
"this new delay will hurt both pirate and prey alike."
"/signedplease put it back how it was! it makes scanning quickly horrible."
"/signedor at least get this value down to something like 0,5-0,3 seconds what would be more in line with the human reaction time."
"it's annoying, you shouldn't improve server's performance by limiting gameplay. /signed"
"undo this ****. limit maximum mouse clicks for carebears in high sec, but not a crucial game feature."
"+1 to voices against this change. please remove delay."
"fix it"
"undo this ccp ffs"
"2sec delay is bad, mkay?"
"signed"
"support."
"i would like to lend my support to this topic. i have posted my piece in the other thread. perhaps the delay should be 1/2 to 3/4 of one second."
"the 2s delay is far too long. i'd understand 0.5s or something... but this is far too long."
"please change this. you've already nerfed solo pvp enough."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"no, this was implemented because of excessive server calls when people click \"scan\" as fast as they can. i think there simply needs to be a new mechanic.or reduce the timer to 1 second. the whole idea is that you can't scan as fast as you can click, maybe 2 seconds is excessive. but doing away with the scan timer entirely probably won't happen."
"supported."
"i could accept some delay, but 2 sec is an eternity when trying to catch someone. by the time you enter local, your target is already aliging to a safespot or celestial (if not cloaking). any delay in scanning means the chance he gets away is that much more likely."
"supported... i still miss the red moon rising scanner with the directional window in it. that was the best"
"really hope this one gets pushed through for a reconsideration. even if there needs to be some anti-spam built in, there are much better ways to do it."
"signed"
"i don't mind the scan delay much... however, thanks to this people are gonna keep local-chat even closer. local-chat should go away imo, but with the current scan system that is not possible.second, is the way they did the delay. instead of masking out the scan button for two sec, you can still click the button and a message appears. and i got the feeling that everytime i click the button within the 2 seconds, that it counts as a new scan and the message gets updated while the effect does not. result is that my 3rd or 4th scan works, but i still see the message.if they could just darken the button and make it unclickable for the two seconds, then it is fine to me."
"/signed"
"/sign"
"/signedi need my scanner to work when i ask it to."
"support."
"makes sense."
"needs fixing, or at e absolute very least enforcement/clarification by the gms.th"
"something needs to be done about this, yes."
"frustrating loophole to say the least."
"/signed"
"there is indeed a solution.but does it mean the current system is perfect? no.it can be improved and that's why we're here."
"supported. the war dec should stay with the original entity and not be shed like a snake skin when you join / leave an alliance 24hrs later."
"\"presently, there is a loophole that some corporations are using to avoid wars that have been declared on them. as soon as a war has been declared on the corporation, they join an alliance and, once admitted, they immediately leave the alliance again. the result is that they are only involved in an active war for 24 hours and not a week as should be the case according to normal war game-play mechanics. bogus alliances have even been created for the sole purpose of giving corps a way out of wars. this is an unintended game mechanic and it will be fixed as soon as possible. until then we are putting a stop to this situation and anyone found abusing this loophole will receive a warning for their trouble. repeated offenses of this nature may also result in a ban. \"ccp now states the following (from a recent petition):\"hi, senior gm xxxxx here. please accept our apologies for the delay in responding back to your petition. the issue that you were reporting here to us within this petition is not considered an exploit given it is how the game mechanics currently function within the game. this may be somewhat against the spirit of eve and we assure that we will have this brought up with our game design team to see if they wish to take this mechanic under review. we apologize for the time it has taken to respond to this and hope that the final decision presented to you here will be to your satisfaction. if you have any further questions or concerns then please do not hesitate to ask. best regards, senior gm xxxxxxeve online customer support team \"and followed up with by this....\"thank you for your update. the news update from january 2008 is no longer applicable as it was sent out in response to another issue which was declared an exploit at the time. that was later resolved. the current issue is simply a factor of the current game mechanics and will only be altered with changes made to those mechanics. best way to voice your concerns with those mechanics is to make yourself heard through the eve online forums. as stated, we have informed the game developers of the concerns expressed to us through the petition system and that is unfortunately all that we can do at this time. best regards, senior gm xxxxxx eve online customer support team \"/signed again!"
"mistress says if i don't support this thread she'll cut me off from the veld roids...not my precious veld roids!p.s. i do actually support this"
"signed."
"supporting."
"beside the:\"don't post gm replies\" rulecan you post the question you made?from the sound of those replies i have a doubt your petition was unclear about the exploit used. from what i know leaving a wardecced corporation in allowed, joining a alliance when wardecced and then leaving, giving the wardec to the alliance and shedding it from the corporation was declared an exploit and never \"un-declared\" as such. if really that was changed and it is not an effect of miscommunication, yes the ruling must me changed."
"support"
"the original petition, which i submitted was,given i also linked the post ccp said doing such actions were an exploit, i found it quite humorous that they now choose it to be normal game play mechanics"
"signed,this is just lamme, grow a pair and actually defend the pos'es instead of messing with dodgy game mechanics."
"fully agreed with.the natural progression of skills is good frigates - destroyer - cruiser - battlecruiser - battleship - carrier - dread - moms...then you need alot more training to get into a titan. with the olyimpian, its a stop-gap between caps and supercaps. the whole capital fleet needs looking at. carriers / dreads / supercaps. t2 modules are needed, t2 ships are needed. and definitely a ship designed to take out capital ships. when are the caps gonna get a looking at ccp?"
"bumping an important topic.also, i think that after spanning over 40 pages (last thread and this one) and over 1k player support replies ccp should take 10 minutes to post a gm/dev response. however much ccp would like to keep the status quo, i will not allow this issue to be swept under the rug - this is a real part of the service we pay for as players, as much as we pay for the hardware and the dev teams. we deserve a working support system! and we deserve a reply to this thread, even if it is a plain acknowledgement that the issue at hand is being reviewed.i think ccp is mistakenly believing that this issue is not important enough, and that we will forget about it in a month or so - i say they are wrong, and that paying customers will demand the full service they are paying for. so what will it be ccp - will you ignore us again? lock this thread? or maybe grow some balls and face the issue, even if its to say that you wont change the system?"
"yes."
"i personally like this: \"don't list mods/ships that are at full health\" better, but anything that makes that nightmare a bit easier will do. atm i use reppers in space cuz it's less hassle than using the station rep service."
"loophole forum banitem: player character has been banned from forum use for a length of time for inappropriate forum activity. player character creates a new account with a similar or dis-similar name to continue to using the forums when player character has been banned.example: longfellow tortia was banned from the forums for 6 months, he has created a new character named longfellow tort1a and one named sloppy. he then uses the forums as if he is not banned. he is in my opinion violating his ban by doing this. just because he creates a new character with a similar or disimilar name does not mean that he should be allowed to use the forums. solution: your ban in my opinion should be based on your internal ip address, otherwise the person banned will be able to create multiple secondary characters and use the forums circumventing the ban.thoughts: with all of the negativity in the eve-online forums i feel it is paramount that we eliminate those who want nothing but to troll and flame others for their enjoyment. allowing people to use this loophole by being able to create other toons and access the forums while they are banned is in my opinion exploiting the ruling."
"i support the idea that a forum ban should be a forum ban, but the fact is, it's easy to get around. got an ip ban? it's not hard to get a new one. got an account banned? it's not hard to get a new one.afaik (though correct me if i'm wrong) when you get banned from the forums, your account is banned- not just one character on your account. this means that people who are getting around forum bans have an entirely different account they are paying $15 a month for.if there was an easy solution, i'd support it- but i think ccp would have already implemented it if there it did exist."
"your solution is sadly not workable at all. many provider do regularly changing dynamic ip addresses.i fear there is no way to achieve what you want."
"and let's not even get into one larkonis trassier - i'd like to rip on the guy for it, but it's actually sort of necessary for csm stuff. should he be banned from doing the job he was elected to do? it's not an easy question."
"sure ban by ip address.1 aol user = most aol users.1 saudi = all saudis1 chinese = all chinese.you can not ban by ip, many people on many networks share their public ip with others."
"moderation makes it worse.with over-moderation you end up with a forum full of yes-men. they all have the same opinions and all suck up to the moderators as \"teachers pets\".over-moderation destroys communities, creating an environment where only those who agree are allowed to talk and all others are hectored until they leave or do something to get themselves banned."
"i fully endorse this. it is terrible that a person can pay for multiple accounts and when one of them is banned due to internets stalkers reporting any of his posts for possible infractions he is simply able to switch to another. ip banning seems like a good idea. a small price to pay that some innocents are affected for the greater good of the forums."
"seems like a good plan, supported"
"you seemed to have supported this by accident.it's cool though, an easy mistake."
"its true, larkonis is a cool guy.not supported."
"u mad?not supported!"
"counter-proposal: give us a proper ignore function so that we can decide for ourselves who we want to \"ban\" from our screens."
"this, and people that got a forum ban should not be able to run for csm and be kicked out if they get a ban during their term.nothing personal to larkonis and darius though.csms just should have exemplary behaviour, just like you're not allowed to run for politician if you have a criminal record."
"because this games aim is clearly to form model, moral citizens. bad behaviour is simply never allowed."
"edit: nvm - i forgot members of the troll squad shouldn't be treated as if they were actually saying anything."
"so you think that player representation should be subject to the whims of forum mods? that's like firing my mp because he got a speeding ticket."
"this is a mockery of justice. the feelings of 12 year olds and people who act like 12 year olds is important."
"have you ever podded anyone?oh ok... your're fired!well you said anyone with a criminal record..and podding people is breaking concord law in a sense.(anyone get my point yet?)hell why stop there... pirates too!please... use head before you speak."
"agreeing with liiza, this is a slap in the face of justice/america.supported."
"wait.. but...trassier??? that...ahhhh!!!i see what you did theresupporting only if they add an \"team america world policy\" sound file that plays every time someone gets a forum ban.america - **** yeah!"
"who is loophole and what did he do?"
"i fully support this post, product, and/or service.ninja editi totally agree! real life politicians would never break the law! oh, bill clinton dodged the draft and committed perjury, hmm, that new york mayor was into prostitution, and ted kennedy killed someone and got away with it, then got elected to forty some odd years of the senate. what a mockery of justice!"
"i use two pc in different locations to play eve, one has a static ip, the other a dynamic one.so if i get banned what ip will be banned? ccp should ban a range of ip in a university town because i have been banned? your example guy almost certainly used a different e-mail address to create the new account, so ccp has no way to know if he is a alt without checking credit card data, if he use a credit card. your suggestion is inapplicable. at most you can report the player in your example to the moderators."
"can we at least please hurry up and ban bbbb45? the guy whose been posting those stupid keylogger **** links? if you look at the forum index he's posted the last topic in just about every forum. i vote for more active moderators. he's not exactly being subtle"
"hmm, i got this strange feeling creeping up the back of my neck that someone tries to abuse the assembly hall forum as a weapon in a personal feud.looking over the thread a bit further, it seems that another person jumps on the train as well (no offense bud, a lot of people would have tried i guess)."
"have you seen his threads? he's repeatedly posted links to keylogger-ridden **** sites in every subforum."
"wat? i wasnt talking about you."
"oh."
"i realize coming up with decent ideas is hard for you, but you really do need to stop posting all your horrible ideas on these forums."
"supporting this as well... this blatant abuse of the system must stop."
"wikipedia did it to quatar or however that one is spelled. some kid at school was modding pages with dumb content and a mod caught and banned him. the whole country runs though a super nat"
"just wanted to complain about unfair forum bans."
"my bad. was talking about isler dainze. heh, no worries! i was seriously confused there for a minute though!i was like... then i was like...no hard feelings!"
"nope.. i stand by my statement... your both right..and your both wrong."
"yeah, we understand your point.. the problem is that making a rifter good (which ties for first with the amarr punisher, not dominates the class), same with the t1 cruiser rupture (which ties with thorax, so it doesn't dominate that class either), same with the hurricane (which is dominated by the drake for defense, and ties with the myrm for offense.. again, doesn't dominate), same with hacs (vagabond is second to the ishtar). in fact, the only class that one could say that minmatar dominates is the field command ship class with one ship.. the sleipnir. so, you are telling me, that because we get one really good ship and some decent t1 ships, that we get the shaft on the most important ship class in eve?i personally wouldn't mind if the minmatar battleship class didn't do well in the amarr style or gallente style or the caldari style.. but the problem is that the current minmatar style.. really sucks for battleship class. so much so that even with a massive difference in sp, it still cannot compare. against every opposing ship class, the tempest has no advantages.. none. the maelstrom has a bit, but only in short battles, and the typhoon is only useful after an ungodly amount sp to even have a prayer of using it to any effect.my favorite part of your comment is the part that says we are looking for petty changes in the game that won't make a difference in the game. exactly, they are small changes, and they will not make a major affect to the overall game. its exactly what we want, a small change to make minmatar bses more viable.. not make them overpowered. let them do what they are meant to do.now, that being said.. if somehow with the dust 514 interact, the tempest and other minmatar battleships do ground assaults best.. well.. i might call that good."
"so you're admitting that it's a waste of ccp's time to make the changes you're requesting..."
"you really don't like to read do you...no, i said that making minmatar battleships viable again would be a minor fix and not break the game."
"just like the original falcon nerf, which led to a falcon buff, which led to a falcon nerf? my point is that it's not a major problem, and would be a waste of ccp's time- it's not easy to get a small change right the first time when that small change effects hundreds of thousands of people. i feel the same way about this as i do about assault frigates getting a 4th bonus- sure it would make things 'coherent' but it would be a hell of a lot more trouble than it's worth.as i said- if you really have that much of a problem with minmatar, cross train, quit eve, or stfu already."
"edit, you almost got me there.. this is what the forum is for mate, if you can't figure that out.. well, tough for you."
"the forum is for bringing up important matters to the csm, to present to ccp. not bull sh*t whines from people who cba to actually fly their ships- they'd rather complain about them until ccp does something, which will inevitably over-buff minmatar, causing all the whiners of the other 3 races to unite and make even more work for ccp.you've said yourself this isn't an issue worth writing home about. why don't we let ccp deal with real issues first- like the current glitch where you can get randomly concorded in high-sec, or having to log out and back in after a war dec goes live for wartargets to show up in your overview, or any number of other legitimate issues that they've had to put off for ages in order to attempt (apparently unsuccessfully) to silence the whiners.quit whining. quit trying to divert ccp from real issues. and a above all,learn to fly."
"balance is one of the most important things in an mmo. it actual doesnt pay off to spent sp in minmatar bs rather then amarr, even if you have already skilled cruisers to 4 or 5 and projectiles to medium t2. its a waste of time because you have to crosstrain sooner or later too catch up in lvl 4s for isks/hour and in pvp for nearly everything.it may be only minor changes, with only a small effect for the game. but with a huge impact on minmatar pilots. i love to fly the vargur but im crosstraining the paladin because the vargur is useless against all other factions then angels, compared with the paladin.do you want only one faction? easy to balance, no waste of time. if you dont balance them and make one uber and the others not as good, it will end like only one faction is played sooner or later.this is why we need balance. even in the most improtant class ;)"
"so, now you are recognizing that \"whining\" will get stuff done. yeah, well, as i said, i love it when you post here because you have yet to read any facts, present anything related to facts to counter what we said, post the lame \"learn how to fly\" junk that every minmatar for the past two-three years has learned to ignore as the clueless talk that it is.and guess what.balance is an important part of the game. and again, learn to frikkin' read. you have yet to read any single one of my simple answers correctly, not one. maybe english isn't your first language, i dunno, i don't care. what i said, was that this was a minor issue, one that could be easily solved without breaking the game. what part of that are you not getting? what part of you thinks that because its minor its not important? did vagabonds sneak off with your carebear cnr while you weren't looking? did zulupark put something in your wheaties for breakfast this morning? we have put fact, tactics, configurations, graphs, analysis of every possible strength and every possible weakness here and made them available for you and ccp to read (which strangely enough, neither of you appear to have made the effort). we've looked, we've tested, we've fought in the tempest, typhoon, and maelstrom. we've compared fact and figures and you, well you've done nothing. you haven't said anything enlightening except, \"i'm tortugan, i know more than you..\" well, you have yet to prove even one thing.. you are no better than ccp, and their \"well, it feels balanced..\" viewpoint. if you want to have ccp to have them look at the issues you mentioned, then you place them in this forum, and you keep pushing them.so, keep on posting here tortugan, keep on pushing this wonderful topic to the top. eventually, someone at ccp will take a look at it. and eventually, after alot of constant pressure, maybe they'll do something."
"or maybe you'll get bored and find a new game to complain about :d"
"hehe, maybe.but i wouldn't bet on it."
"you do know that anyone can use any type of drone with just the regular skills, right? the ships that do have drone bonuses or a very large drone capacity can freely use any kind right now. boosting em drones won't make amarr ships better, since nothing's stopping them from just using the best type from another race.supported (as a caldari / minmatar pilot), as the amarr drone designs look kinda neat, and some kind of reason to use them would be good."
"supported. amarr drones are just too weak in almost every situation when compared to other types."
"for the empire."
"support"
"full support, make amarr the drones for lazy people. =p"
"definitely not the fact that you're trying to boost amarr drones and not gallente or caldari or minmatar. i understand what you mean, but currently amarr need no buffing, not even their drones. somebody has to have the worst drones. we might as well leave caldari in the dust by boosting the hp by a factor of 4, right????you'd get some disgustingly high hp on some of those drones...edit: 4k armor?8k structure?is this what you mean?"
"i use em drones all the time and i think they're just fine."
"i'm assuming since you're in carebear stare, you're probably using them for pvp, right? given their damage type and damage modifier, their only use is against shield tankers with an em hole. the problem is that on a ship with 0% em resist, you'll usually have 20% thermal resist. so even if they don't plug their em hole and just omnitank, you're better off using ogres for the bigger damage mod. the only time i've found amarr droens useful is when my target has specifically tanked for everything but em. ok- other than curator iis :)"
"exactly. so for popping caldari ships running guristas missions they work pretty great, and can be useful in many anti-shield tank applications, especially if combined with a neut."
"fix it fix it fix it."
"you couldn't pay me to take that job.though i'd not say no to a trip to iceland"
"1.0"
"/signed"
"it has probably been discussed... but it doesnt mean you can't approve it."
"i strongly support this suggestion"
"fully supported. what a broken game mechanic ..."
"/signedpeople only sd to avoid the mail and evidence that it happened."
"sounds good."
"/signeddefinately support this..."
"thumbs up here for sure!permanent record of all ships destroyed should be kept (mails with only npc's can be exempt from killboards, but still should generate a lossmail for the player & players corp where applicable)"
"yes, please."
"self destructing should definatly generate killmails, self destructing to make sure your enemy doesnt get your loot is one thing but to deny a killmail is silly."
"signed, if they did this for the npc losses i don't see why self-destruct shouldnt give a mail aswell."
"right, now it's called a kill mail. not a: selfdestruct because you are made of fail mail.if you want a kill mail, make sure you bring what's needed to get one. if you start generating killmails via selfdestruct, then you might as well remove the whole mechanic. selfdestructing has other uses as well:1. denying your enemy intel2. denying your enemy a morale boost3. very tasty tears to fuel some towers4. denying your enemy any lootyou want a kill mail, kill something. other than that, you can always just copy paste this:you killed a leviatan, u r f'ing awesome. gratz. you win eve!ps: e-peen"
"i concur... additionally.. i've always been an avid nerf killmails camp guy.don't buff them.killmails are seriously a massive breech in intel... i would be content to know that a kill took place and said parties where involved but no specific stats...this is one of the reasons i refuse to post/buy/publish a kill board... its just stupid waving of e-peens.yes... i won't deny the value of data for intel for enemies or ship reimbursement programs but it is wholly a waste of time and nothing but e-peen stroking.i'm not stupid enough to think ccp will ever hear me out on that one but i'm entitled to my opinion.. flame away.i'm just not into that sort of thing.... if i wanted to see what was fitted.. i'll slap a damn ship scanner on my ship... that's what its for isn't?if i want to deny you intelligence by self destructing... well screw you pal... : o pit's my choice and right."
"the intel argument is reasonable. would you be willing to compromise in generating self destruct killmails that don't show what modules were fit? that way we still get to stroke our e-peens, but you get the satisfaction of knowing that your enemies wont know about that officer co-processor on your moa :d"
"fair enough.supported then.and thank you for being reasonable and cooperative.07"
"1.0"
"do the ccp's ever look in assembly hall? would be neat to see how many gigs of space the km's take up on the server."
"big, fat, hairy +1.just like the moms of all fleet commanders who employ logoffski."
"/signed"
"signed.an alternative to resetting the counter would be to have all active modules turned off and resitances dropped to zero. it's realy rediculous that a hic with a focus point on a dread can watch it all of a sudden dissapear. unacceptable exploit."
"/signed"
"erm ... the hundreds who disconnect daily wouldn't be penalized if they weren't in a combat situation. if you're not being aggressed, you disappear as usual after a couple seconds. if you're in a fight and you disconnect/log off to clear lag, then obviously you're logging back on, so this change wouldn't negatively affect you in any way whatsoever. what this does affect is the ability of people to ***** out and log off ships to avoid being killed."
"/signed,"
"this is purely running away when you shouldnt be able to. you've committed to the fight but it isnt going your way so you do this.and of course this would apply to all ships, cap ships do it cause they have plenty more chances to survive, a dread in siege combined with lag can hold alot of time...."
"how do you know its not the socket closed issue then?since you so kindly answered my question in your own statement..."
"everything wich makes cowards cry is fine.supported"
"definitely needs a change of some kind."
"obvious troll is obvious. carebear bias is too.supported."
"support"
"if you can't read and fully comprehend my question.. then why are you trolling?"
"to me it's a matter of balance in the large fleetfights:a) have 1/100 guys disconnect and maybe lose their cap to crappy internet connection.b) allow 100 guys to log off and get 80 caps out via exploit.a) is the lesser evil in my opinion.i would also like the change suggested for small-scale pvp, it's quite common for all these shiny navy-ravens, golems etc. in 0.0 to jump into your gang & logoff. if you have a hac-gang, they die. if you have a frigate gang or just 5-6 people they dissappear. :(full support for pvp, pve is a different theme."
"this i heartily disagree with since it would overly penalize any legitimate disconnects. i do agree with the op's idea of resetting the timer, however."
"for counter resets. would this apply to rats though? i can see some people pitching a fit about \"my shiny hulk got hulk smashed by some little gurista frig due to a dc or whatever and it had me scrammed at the time.\""
"put a small active tank on it? just sayin."
"it has long struck me as unusual that in a hyper-capitalistic economy like eve's manufacturing & research costs at npc stations are completely static. everything else is allowed to fluctuate due to supply & demand (even office rental costs), yet even the most in-demand factories don't charge a premium for their services.fixing this oversight would help to disperse market hubs, increase manufacturing costs to a non-trivial isk sink, and could even make lowsec potentially useful."
"i'm industrial and supporting a goonswarm idea.*goes to commit seppuku now.*it works for me though. if you want high sec jobs done and dont have to worry about flexing rates like they would be get a tower."
"i'm no industry buff- but as far as i can see, this would have primarily positive impacts."
"this proposal is a double edged sword.... but its necessary.supported."
"support"
"i'm unsure about this. the ability to reconnect when within drone control range (let alone recovering contact with drones from anywhere in the solar system) would be a big buff to drones.correct me if i'm wrong (likely) but wouldn't this be useful in battle? suppose i die. if it's a fleet battle, and if my abandoned drones were not hunted down, and if i come back quickly, then i not only get my drones back but they reactivate in position and ready to attack. clever new tactics might be possible (e.g. a sniper warping from one side of the battle to the other, waking up different sets of previously deployed drones).while the above might be kind of nifty, i doubt very much that ccp would go for it. it's work, and i can imagine that it might marginally increase lag.being able to tractor your own drones is a much better idea."
"this \"single t2 bpo, only one manufacturing slot argument\" is bull. anyone reading it knows it. you can make multiple max run copies and be making 30+ runs using alternate characters, and each copy will have the same me/pe as the original. if you are indeed only using the original for a single factory slot you're being silly. due to the much better me/pe on your t2 bpo you can manufacture that item at far less cost than the inventor of the same item who uses a t2 bpc."
"and now please check the stats how long it takes to make a max run copy of a t2 bpo. to help you a bit. it is insanely long. compared to e.g. copying t1."
"and even t1 copying takes about 5x as long as producing the same number of runs by straight manufacture."
"supported.removal would level the playing field on t2 research and manufacture. true, many t2 bpo owners will take a loss on their investment, they won't be the first or last to lose profit to an act of \"god\" and have been aware of the possibility of their removal since the end of the lottery. such a small number of people controlling even 8% of the cov ops cloak market via the existence of a mechanic unavailable to the majority is a mockery of eve's much lauded player controlled market, let alone the much higher figures seen for other products.i'm a firm believer that opportunities should be equal and that skill and dedication should be what sorts the wheat from the chaff."
"no, go to another market and stop crying."
"i'm currently involved in neither invention or t2 manufacture, i'm a margin trader pure and simple, i go where the money is. my opinions on this matter are driven by my beliefs regarding good game design and equality amongst players. if there were an effectively indestructible combat item that provided a clear pvp advantage while being unobtainable by the majority of players there would be uproar and it's removal would be almost unanimously agreed. i don't see why competition between players in another format shouldn't be held to the same standard.though i must say your fine logic and wit are very convincing."
"poss are not the problem with sov warfare.the problem is that the reinforcement timer system, designed to allow the pos's owners to show up and fight back, does not actually encourage fighting back. because during the 1-51 hours the pos is in reinforced, there's zero reason at all for either side to do more than check how long it will be until the timer expires. at that point, a simple comparison operation occurs, and whoever has the bigger fleet assembled moves in and deals with the pos as they wish. the basic idea of adding some level of arbitrary delay into the process for killing a pos is not necessarily a bad idea though. in a game with a global playerbase it is necessary even, lest geographically clustered alliances wake up one morning to find all their holdings destroyed.no, the problem centers around that 1-51 hour time period of enforced inactivity.fortunately, the fix is relatively simple and non-disruptive to the current game enviornment - give alliances \"missions\" to complete for the duration of the reinforced timer, and have the results of these missions affect the state of the tower upon it's exit from reinforced mode. as a result, either the attackers or the defenders will have an advantage (compared to the current system) when the pos exists reinforced. examples would be increasing/decreasing shield resists or tower pg, but there are a wide range of buffs/debuffs that could be applied to the pos as a result of these missions while it's in reinforced mode.of course, there will necessarily be a careful balancing act to make sure that the buffs are large enough to impact the results of any fight upon the pos's exit from reinforced mode, without making them so large as to negate the usual post-reinforcement fights completely. while this proposal could be applied directly to existing sov-holding towers, i think it blends nicely with the planetary xl pos idea, as this leaves all current mechanics unaffected and allows for balancing to be done without mucking up any of the pos located in lowsec or highsec space.really though, this proposal applies regardless of whether the sov-claiming method continues to be pos or not. any sov-claiming mechanism is going to need a built-in delay to allow defenders to show up and fight back. the key is to make the delay stage of contesting sov into an active, instead of a passive, period. doing nothing but waiting for a timer to count down for up to two days simply isn't any fun."
"your idea makes this a wholly complex situation that is already painful enough as it is.i get what your saying... and there's some rationality behind it... but even i can't support this.sorry. : o ("
"ep1c idea i never liked my 10 alts anyway lets comitt genocide!-w"
"first, find out why people are using alts. then if its possible make sure they can do that in 1 character without any penatly and you got my vote on this.in some cases i know people use alts for mining and another one for hauling. fix that problem so that i dont have to haul 300 times per cycle and its going to probably work.other cases are scouts... mhhhh, maybe sending a drone in a jump so you can look on the other side for a couple of seconds... then this should work.if you find a fix or quick turn around for this, then you got my vote"
"i am an alt and i support this advertisement."
"am i the only one getting f**ked of about this ?yet another patch and still no sound, i looked at the csm issue discussion page etc and didnt see audio or sound anywhere....i admit my web and forum searching skill is at lvl 1, but for such a serious issue it shouldnt be that hard to find.the only thing i can hear is a rather loud annoying hum when i switch on invun fields...now and then various random sounds pop in and out..but thats it.i find it absolutely ridiculous that such an important aspect of any game should be neglected so badly, ccp should be apologising to all players and working round the clock to solve it...i mean its the sound ffs, its like only having half a game.i just cannot fathom why this isnt everyone's top priority.will this ever be resolved ? is there some other thread i can go whine in ?"
"sound engine woesnew dev blog: audio in eve onlineeven before csm3 had the chance to approach ccp in regard to the 1st link above, ccp took the belated preemptive approach of establishing the audio dev blog (i.e. 2nd link).(sometimes a google search or eve search will provide better results for what's in the forums. once you obtain your results there, you can return to the official forums with them.)"
"thanks for the effort mate...but im not buying it....the dev blog is nothing but rhetorical clap-trap about \"striving to improve\" etc.the new audio engine was installed in q1 2009...its now almost q4 and a major patch later, and still nothing...but reading the dev blog you would think they were only having a \"few minor issues\".why arent csm throwing their shoes at ccp ?"
"because the csm doesn't control ccp. why does everyone think this? the csm brings up issues that ccp doesn't know about. ccp does know about the sound issues and are striving to fix them. just because they don't fix them right now doesn't mean they aren't. it could be problems harder to fix than you realize. furthermore, will you calm the crap down? geez, get your panties in a wad why don't you, its just a game for crying out loud.--isaac"
"i dont think anyone thinks csm controls ccp, nor did i say anything like that.csm represents the players to ccp, but at the last ccp/csm meeting i could find in april 2009, absolutely no mention of audio anywhere.being a fanboi you probably only glanced at the dev blog and instantly assumed ccp are doing a wonderful job....however if you care to actually read it, it says, and i quote \"some mixing errors like turrets fading to fast\"...seems pretty evident that ccp dont know anything about the current sound issues to me, being as there is no sound at all."
"it's my understanding that additional changes to eve sound will be implemented soon<U+FFFD>. perhaps it's because ccp is comprised of mostly westerners who wouldn't understand the insult of such an action and would rather exchange locker room banter amongst each other as to who was the best at dodging shoes. so, a question remains. that is, if ccp has preempted csm3's sound inquiry by creating a dev blog, what information should csm3 strive to aquire by approaching ccp with the sound woes wiki item? as for me, since the popping and clicking issues seem to have been resolved, i would appreciate some elaboration on the statement, \"...the argument of having the sounds stay with the ship regardless of camera position has never been part of the plan. however, it's an interesting idea and we have started looking at this idea from different angles - we will post some ideas here later....\". i would guess that is your interest also, mr. robbyx. ultimately, the challenge is for ccp to make eve audio \"immersive\" (-aranis nax from the new dev blog: audio in eve online, post #40). the sound was somewhat immersive prior to apocrypha as you or one of your alts might remember. you are likely correct in your findings. however, you didn't try the google thing yet did you? otherwise you would have found this... [issue] sound engine & sound bugs which is a result of what you discovered and that is, a lack of concern regarding the sound issues by the csm. csm3 recognized the importance of the issue an voted, unanimously, to bring it to the attention of ccp. csm chairman, dierdra vaal, saw the issue as being of high enough importance that he took it upon himself to wikify it -without even being asked. the issue is to be presented at the next csm/ccp meeting. it wouldn't hurt to show your support of that happening by giving a thumbs up in that thread.ok, someone else please be /last."
"i suggest you read all of the 1.5 patch notes. they fixed the current sound problems. if you still are noticing problems, file a bug report, don't post a whine in assembly hall"
"if you are in a non-npc corporation, you know you can quit it anytime by just visiting the corporation tab via your menu--or the other button that involves right clicking yourself and confirming quit corporation. i find this right click + quit button just plain annoying and unuseful since it can let people get confused with it when quickly leaving a fleet.bla bla bla."
"supporting my own (futile) issue."
"i think that this is in place to make sure that even raw noobs know how to leave if necessary. that said, the big \"(prepare to) leave corp\" button on the front page of the corp menu should be enough, and i can sort of see why this might be a problem at some point. vaguely supported."
"supporting a ui needs an overhaul thread. god i wish they would just give up on minor tweaks and redo the ui from the ground up. it would be faster, easier, and damn sexy.dooo itttt ccp- you know you wanna :*"
"alternatively, fix said glitches, exploits, and irresponsible gms :p"
"and when you finish, why not work on making politicians honest, rock stars sober, and forum denizens cautious about leaping to judgment?"
"you are wrong."
"don't fly what you can't afford to lose... how is he wrong for implying that?"
"you... realize i was joking, right? hersch mentioned something about forum denizens jumping to conclusions, so i had to set an example :das for not flying things you can't afford to lose- sure, but why should i lose hard work and isk to ccp's mistake? that's the equivalent of my bank misplacing several hundred dollars of my money- sure, in the swing of things, i'll recover even if they don't give it back- but it's their responsibility to return what's rightfully mine, which is the frustration i have with the current system."
"are you sure that it was there mistake?which glitch was this?i hear a lot of people blaming the weirdest things for ships.no offense... but most people make alot of human errors when it comes to losing things.hell id might be really upset if i lost a multi-billion isk to a \"glitch\"but then i may be denying myself the reality that it was my screw up that did it."
"prolly the glitch where the gm popped his friends nightmare as well via detonating shuttles etc"
"i definitely see where you're coming from- a lot of people petition for dumb reasons- but the fact is, if ccp is reimbursing your ship, they should be reimbursing the whole thing, not just part of it.as for my specific losses, one was to overwhelming server side lag causing a handful of desynchs induced by a gm detonating about 70 shuttles in the middle of a fight where we were already fighting with the odds against us- losing all control over your ship in a combat situation like that is never fun.the other loss was due to a concord glitch- essentially:a takes from b's canb shoots aa docks upa comes back out over 15 minutes later (after b's aggro expires), and takes c's canc shoots and kills a, and b shows up on a's lossmail.because b's aggro has expired and he's on the km, he gets concorded. it is a definite glitch, a s the system obviously wasn't meant to work that way.but again- regardless of whether it was a 'legitimate' loss or not, if ccp makes the determination that it needs to be reimbursed, it should be reimbursed in full."
"if you lose something because a gm does something stupid like blowing up 70 shuttles, then you should definitely be reimbursed by ccp...i'm kinda surprised to hear about this. i wasn't aware gms got to do stuff like that."
"specifically what happened was some idiot in an orca (not the gm) undocked and jettisoned 70 or so minmatar shuttles outside jita 4-4. we started fighting knowing they were there, and the lag wasn't too bad. the problem was that a gm saw the strain on the server, decided that the shuttles needed to go to alleviate said strain. in the long run, it definitely helped- but for about 5 minutes after he detonated them, there was a huge lag spike, which i don't think he planned for, and caused us to lose all control over our ships (couldn't deagress, couldn't switch targets, couldn't move, etc).i'm not that angry at the gm for messing up- everyone's human, but it's frustrating that i lose >100m worth of mods due his mistake."
"fair enough... and i can sympathize... but the mechanics of the system will prevent you from achieving your goal.tracing back would cause massive slow downs in petitioning which is a system seriously frakked over as it is... generating duplicates or even giving isk would also cause a major problem with exploits.this is a classic damned if you do and damned if you don't problem."
"bump"
"yep"
"not much to say here. apart from: yes!"
"good idea."
"another cathegory : wormhole based"
"i like the idea. i'm supporting on the general principle, but i bet recruiting will go mainly on cosmos when it arrives. personally i'd like to see some more in depth indexing of corps, allowing someone to search by faction, alliance, corp population and self-defined roles. say i could search for a specifically gallente industrial corps with a minimum of 30 members that is currently in an alliance. and see a list of all corps matching my parameters come up along with recruiting information and threads.there are some other eve sites that do this. but its all voluntary and requires that the corp has had someone create a profile on that site and keeps it updated."
"posting in a waa it isnt fair other people have more money thread"
"epic fail for an epic druggie.seriously.... you obviously have no bloody idea what the alliances are having to do to rebuild cap ships.did it occur to you that they are having to manufacture that crap? it doesn't just come out of thin air pal.oh look.. cap's from heaven!go live in 0.0 and do some homework before you apply high sec economics to a nullsec world."
"you see a red in local, you drag him into the intel channel.select your option. why isn't show info standard???make it so."
"stacking = yes please.merging = no thanks."
"stacking = yesmerging = conditional yes**on demand only, not automatic.theres plenty of times when i have like 1 run left on a bpc but would love to install it as a 3-4 run job so it comes out when i want not in the middle of the night with that slot wasted for hours of building. if i can merge bpcs only on demand then that would solve that problem."
"yes please."
"/signed."
"i find i'm always tinkering with my default depending on the task at hand. having a few default orbit ranges would be great."
"lets follow 1 of the new rig bpos.....* purchase bpo.* put bpo into corp hanger.1. right click.2. manufacture.3. installation.4. ok.5. quote.6. ok.7. cancel. (you have to do a manufacture job to \"assemble\" the bpo for locking)8. right click.9. vote for lockdown.10. wallet/shares.11. vote. (add a few clicks for unlocking)* 136 new rigsif i counted right... around 1,500 clicks not including purchasing.add another 3,000-4,000 for if you need to unlock and move them later.rsi anyone?how is that carpal tunnel?making a compensation claim?"
"bring back the old animation before it's forgotten; signed"
"sort it out! the current cyno effect is not only dull but it it bearly noticable when zoomed out even slightly."
"i wants mah funnel!!"
"suppopopopoport"
"of not just becouse the old effect was so awsome! soundwise and visual, it was guarantied to keep the players involved awoke!since capital ops tend to be quite time consuming!"
"fille balle this guy belongs in a 'rub out corp' hide little carebare i approve of this request 100% if your going to stick your nose in it, then you have made a decision and all consequences that go with it should apply. stop ccp with all this carebare touchy feely be nice crap ."
"supported, i really liked the destroyer but it is seriously in need of some love. seems slightly ridiculous that there is only one destroyer hull per race... they did it for battle cruisers lets do it for destroyers ccp :)"
"definatly supported although as well as the fix i would also like to see a true tii destroyer the intradictors are more specialized tactical ships than tii frigate killerson a side note i forgot to add earlier. destroyers are one of a very few ships that are equiped for large scale salvage operations. to fit in with that role more i would also like to see a massive boost in tractor beam range and speed, targeting range, and a reduction in activation cost for salvaging modules"
"supported."
"scagga laebetrovo need to \"shut it\"agreed on both topics posted: if you loot the ship, you should be flagged by everyone on the killmail, lets keep it fair. this should also flag you and start an aggression countdown not allowing you to run and dock right away. ccp youre playing too hard for the carebare, we also play and have rights. consider this on your next nerf/decision plz."
"i agree with the op fully, but also like your idea about being able to waive your loot rights. it is pretty common that i am mining in and area where i leave behind a bunch of npc wrecks that i have no intention of picking up.i'd just as soon give them to someone else, or even just open them to all comers."
"your reply would make more sense if the looter were at least in the original victim's corp or possibly even alliance.the complaint here is that a unrelated 3rd party is able to safely steal from a wreck to which he clearly has no right at all."
"supported"
"i think the most probable solution to the waiting around thing that most people seem concerned with (because lets face it, if they are not having fun, we lose people to fight for our sovereignty) is having some sort of installation to allow the troops to warp in. meanwhile we feed them with supplies and such.i am all for this idea actually, but as i have stated in the past, i believe it is folley to connect it to something as important as sovereignty. the issue of console exclusivity does not put nearly as bad a taste in my mouth as that does.with this being said i think we need to ask our csm representatives to get more answers for us and quick.i am very concerned with the removal (albeit a potentially small portion) of direct influence over sovereignty, and i would like to know just what eve pilot's roles are going to be in the process. i think that this linking of worlds to be a great piece of the puzzle in relation to the sovereignty problem, but i think now that we have digested the initial news, we need to know what the exact role of the eve player is going to be."
"supported, i think that ccp should make dust version also for pc."
"/signed"
"actually it should be eve included. they can charge me more for that if they want it."
"this is a huge mistake i believe, but without knowing wtf is going on and how this will effect us the current population of the eve universe it's hard to comment.i'm at a loss for words at this point, i'm very dissapointed with this move, not forgetting how we the players who make eve what it is, have yet to have this explained to us in detail, so far all we know is it that dust will effect how things are in eveonline, and that it will not be available on pc stupid stupid move ccp.supported !"
"i wanna play dust in pc and remove bf / bf 2142 from my pc..:("
"this thread could use more tears... oh wait..."
"i'd love to know what's going on in the heads of ccp bosses right now. why the hell are you alienating your own player base???? we pay millions a year to play this game, and now you want to put in some exclusive stuff that only console players.this is a really really **** way to treat your loyal customers."
"...you know this is bull*. i use a pen tablet here instead of a mouse and it happened to me a few times that i accidentally swapped two modules. since the burner and the micro warp have the same icon, how should my situational awareness help me in that situation? it won't help me.supporting this topic since two different modules with the same icon counters the situational awareness of my ship."
"not a bad idea"
"yes"
"*waves* hi wheatgrass.supported...for all the good it will do."
"supported"
"/signed and supported"
"supported. if the lag is really that bad, then delaying it will not fix it."
"uhh, what ??? wow, you must be living in a cave. do you know how many packets or info are sent when somone spam that button like 3 million time in 2 seconds ?seriously, if you dont have any intel or info about how network works, just stfu. and btw, adapt or go play wow. isn't that what pirates and pvp'ers say when carebares whine and cry about a pve nerf or anything related to carebears.. lmao."
"signed. fix the scanner."
"signed. fix it."
"terrible. this is so bad."
"lark, don't fail me like we failed to kill your orca."
"support"
"signed ... please un**** the scanner"
"please unfix it, it didnt need to be done."
"/ yep fix da scanner"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"signed i dont like it!!"
"signed"
"supported"
"scanning is fail, plz undo"
"signed"
"who the hell had this bright idea??? must be some dam farmer that has got popped too many times. i have seen so many changes in this game, some for the better some for the worse. this is definitely one that is for the worse. someone at ccp needs to wake the fu0k up!!!"
"we've got lowsec lag in large fights, particularly when the server has to keep track of multiple gccs. (this is p bad)we've got fw lag where info being passed on about which militia pilots are in clogs up the system. (supposedly fixed)we've got highsec lag where mission runners and market hubs are based due to large local population. (ccp use stronger nodes, ie jita, dodixie ect)we've got nullsec lag where stront timers intice 1200 people into a system that won't work at all unless the node is reinforced.so how does nerfing the scanner help to resolve any of these issues? people aren't spamming 'scan' when they're fully engaged in a large fight, they're spamming scan to get that large fight. and in all likelyhood it's 1 person, the scout, the paranoid ratter, the solo pvper ect whos punching the button. not every damn person in local.i'm sorry but i can't see how this would drastically increase server performance. it appears to be a blatant nerf to those looking for targets."
"/signed"
"adding my scanner hungry weight to the thread.fix please."
"yes, let's lower the skillcap in eve even more. nobody can stand out!great plan, ccp."
"i love how ccp has never played this game.so dumb it hurts..."
"i really want to know the names of the people that approved this, they are horrible and should be singled out for ridicule."
"signed, cccp this is ****ing ridiculous."
"when are we going to get a dev response to this, its 18 pages long now...and its the most stupid change that eve has had since they tried that cloak mwd nerf...get it changed back to how it was and stop blaming stupid stuff causing lag, you wanna fix it, stop spammers in jita, i bet that would free up a lot more than a guy hitting scan for a few secondsalso...people from all walks of eve think this is stupid, the +10's, -10's, carebears, pirates, miners, missioners, its a move that annoyings the entire playerbase...."
"signed."
"signed. scan delay is utterly ridiculous."
"i use d-scan lots. this change makes me sad. see: :(:(:(:("
"signed, this nerf makes anything that flies at 13.5au/s completely useless as a scanning ship...that takes the covops frigate and the tackle inty out of the picture. weren't these meant for scanning (among other things ofc)signed."
"403 supports in 3 days. about time this issue gets some attention ..."
"it's so much harder to scan down people in time now. i'm all ok with a delay being there, but 2 seconds is just too much."
"1.0"
"signed, bad idea ccp"
"1.0"
"signed."
"signed. it`s just a torturealso fix large autocannons and tempest plz"
"agree for changing it ..how about no delay an 10 sec reuse after 3 uses ?"
"maybe the exploit was, that you can locate player in belts or stuff ...#2sec is really a joke"
"same with me... undo, please :)greets,mary"
"/signed."
"please lets get something done about this now.this issue is just another kick in the stomach for people who have loved this game for years."
"pirate tears are just epic now a days.. i love when ccp makes a change and pirates are crying... lol. just adapt guys.. its really simple. theres more than the d-scan you know...i think i'm just talking a bit too much here lol"
"signed.2sec delay is a bad idea"
"i am not a pirate and never have been. i also know for a fact the op is not a pirate. please check your records, i'm sure you meticulously keep track of all the pirates.yes there are, there are guns. but you need the directional scanner in order to find people to use them. if you seriously think using probes are a viable mechanic to find someone in a belt then you clearly have never tried."
"signed"
"just reminding people that simply stating you agree will not get counted. you need to tick \"support this topic:[ ]check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\"you can also tick this in the edit post menu for all those who forgot."
"signed"
"agreed it's not handy ."
"signed."
"signed, scanners must be quick useable"
"/signed and pressed: 'check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on' :)"
"signed. what possible reson could you have for this that makes since ccp. quit screwwing with stuff thats not broke"
"yet another move to help the carebears. most of the time you only have about 2 seconds to scan down a target before he/she warps out anyway"
"signed"
"click 'edt' then click 'support this thread'"
"aweful idea"
"bad change reverse it soon"
"signed"
"signed"
"."
"this really hurts every one, both carebears and pvpers"
"i agree."
"yep take away the 2 second delay /signed"
"2 seconds is ridiculous. as someone who frequently uses the dscanner to get a general location on mission runners before dropping probes, i'll often find someone on 60 degree, then set to 30 degrees and scan above/below/left/right of the initial 60 degree scan. for me that comes out to 5 (legit) scans within 2 seconds. now i need to spend 12 seconds instead of 2 each time i narrow my scan range (180->90 90->60 60->30 30->15 plus finding distance). this really adds up when trying to find ships not at a warpable object. and even though the time isn't all that much in the grand scheme of things, it makes scanning feel very tedious. it's just bad gameplay design. there are much better solutions than a flat 2 second delay in between scans. maybe something like no more than 5 scans in 10 seconds, or even reducing the delay to .5tl;dr version:there are plenty of legit (non spamming) reasons to use the scanner more frequently than once per 2 seconds. change it back or, if it's really necessary to limit scanning to reduce server load, any of the many other suggestions of other ways to implement the scan delay are better than the current form."
"signed!"
"signedi support the removal of the very \"camp\" 2 second delay."
"its clear that both the carebears and the pvp'rs think this change is the worst thing since boot.ini.how about you reduce eve lag by reducing local spam in jita or any other system that has 500 something people in them."
"+1 for this is ******ed, make it 0.1 or the way it was."
"2 seconds... it's not nice, but i can survive. i will still play eve.what does annoy me, is the goddamn log message. its a spam reversal... instead of me spamming the server with scans, they are spamming me with logs. it makes it difficult to notice the newly refreshed scan results too, and i have to work harder and pay attention. i dont like working harder :(.if ccp insist on having a delay time, perhaps make the scan button greyed out and unclickable until the delay timer is complete instead of having some annoying message lashing at my face.<3"
"signed!"
"there must be a better way of doing this..."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"word is some alliance was using it to lag out an enemy fleet loading grid. one group using an exploitive practice and we all get the shaft."
"/signed"
"signed"
"please undo the change /signed"
"ya, reverse this change please... /signed"
"you keep making it more difficult to solo in this game after every patch. good job. maybe hire some people that actually do pvp to review ******ed changes like this one?"
"/signed"
"yea... signed..."
"signedthis nerf is crippling."
"signed.. stupid change and totally uncalled for."
"signed.. it is horrible.."
"signed.why ceeceepee, why?"
"signed...... wtf?"
"anything between 0.1-0.5 is fine with me."
"/signed"
"yeah this makes narrowing down scans time consuming as **** now."
"/signed"
"i agree, 2 seconds is crazy. signed"
"/signed lets get it back to normal"
"/singedterrible change to the game, put it back.."
"saved from, well i'm not sure what page, its more then 6 deep. csm its time to bring it back to ccp and you know it. come on people we need more support."
"100% support. when i started in my first player corp, and i heard we had a pos, this is what i imagined i would see when i warped to it. much to my dismay, it was instead the jumbled, soap-bubbly mess that we have now. i would even go so far as to say, lets do away with the bubble all together, and have a docking manager at the bay, allowing only approved players in.tl;dr yes!!!"
"/signed"
":\"this is an unintended game mechanic and it will be fixed as soon as possible. until then we are putting a stop to this situation and anyone found abusing this loophole will receive a warning for their trouble. repeated offenses of this nature may also result in a ban.\"you can find the information here:"
"yessss"
"signed. annoying as hell."
"full support."
"support"
"textbook perfect petition. and the times cited make it very clear. even if i mostly a carebear in my eyes it is an exploit and i find strange that it is no more ruled as such. already supported and worth of an explanation in the icelanding meeting."
"+1ms for csmalsoms for ymca"
"completely agree with the op and those frustrated by corps exploiting joining/leaving an alliance to save a pos. i've had this happen to me several times: we attack a hisec pos. the defending corp (who is in an alliance) doesn't bother to show up, knowing full well they can simply leave the alliance to save it. once we put the tower into reinforced, they leave the alliance, and in the time that it takes us to dec the corp (which has now become very expensive to dec because we're already at war with the alliance), they rep it up, remove the goodies, and put more defenses on it.petitioning yields poor results at best.this game mechanic seriously needs to be addressed."
"signed"
"hey, drake, knock it off before you give her any ideas. really, you have to remember who you're talking to here now now, he wasn't the mayor, he was the governor. that makes it alright, doesn't it? seriously, it's actually really funny how many bigshot politicians are crooks in one way or another. usually minor stuff you wouldn't hear about if they weren't important(the premier of alberta plagiarizing essays in a college course he was taking on the side, say), but that are nonetheless hilarious, and indicative of how all of our role models should act."
"you can't even trust a dead politician, since we keep electing them."
"first off, this is hidden nspta hate. i know it.second, i love it when people who don't understand computers attempt to talk tech.oh noes. not my internal ip address! honestly, do a little bit of research. most ips are dynamic, so you can't really ip ban anyone. plus, proxy servers. you have a mistaken idea of what an ip address is and how they work.ip addresses ima ***** u m8why is haxor edited out?"
"sandwich(liiza valora) hating nspta...nevar!"
"supported, great idea."
"wow - why so kill joy?i have flown a tempest extensively and very successfully in low sec. i now fly a typhoon as i have the skills for it and it is way better. for low sec the typhoon is a really good bs so this is not a minmatar bss suck whine. it is a cool looking pirate bs!! me want!! . . . why is so sucky?? whine - on my part at least. i want to fly the tempest because it is a cool looking ship with double damage bonus that should be to bss what a hurricane is to bcs. the problem is the tempest may be a viable bs but it sucks compared to the alternatives like the typhoon, mega, abaddon. i've flown enough with these ships, knowing the pilots setups and skills, to know the difference. the tempest is primaried all the time, doesn't do much damage, and it has a double damage bonus!? this is cruel and unusual nerfing. bs are a large part of the endgame for many players. improving the balance of the tempest will make the game more fun. make the ac tempest good enough the people like me who really want to like it will fly it at high sps!one way to improve the tempest is to buff hail. reduce the tracking penalty to 75%, get rid of the cap penalty, and it might work for short range rr fights. considering how seldom hail is used a buff is well worth doing in any large projectiles/tempest re-balancing."
"bump"
"check your support box."
"well speaking as a carebear i fully support this idea."
"ok- for mission runners, fine- but do they really have utility beyond that? why wouldn't ogre iis be more effective if the target was in a standard pvp omnitank- regardless of whether a neut was involved?they have uses now, but they're few and far between- i wont be heartbroken if they don't get a buff, but i think it would be nice to see more variety in drones than there is currently."
"they are the second most drone focused race, dumbass. they even have multiple droneboats."
"caldari, gallente, and minmatar drones are usable under normal circumstances. amarr are not. after this change somebody still would have the worst drones, and it would still be the amarr. they'd just have bad drones with a wider variety of possible applications. and your hp numbers are high - by my count, 4x would be 768 shield, 2304 armor, and 3224 hull for a praetor ii. in other words, enough to take a licking, but not so much that they're unkillable or anything. they live through one bomb but drop to the second, for example. given the sort of performance hit you're taking to get that, that seems fine to me."
"very interesting idea. in general pvp, gallente and minmatar would still be the best, but this could make amarr drones worthwhile for pirates fighting on gates and stations with sentries on them.edit: forgot to click support"
"does not mean you rely heavily on drones....and i count 1 single hull that is a drone boat. i could be wrong about that though...lol. the base hp would be768 shields2304 armor3224 hullafter drone durability v they would be 960 shields2880 armor4030 hullafter, say cruiser v on a vexor they would be1440 shields4320 armor6045 hullthat's more than a cruiserdangerously close to a battlecruiser"
"arbitrator, curse, pilgrim. one hull, but three ships. and their other ships tend to have decent drone bays too - far and away better than caldari, and generally equal to or better than minmatar. it's not a stretch to call them the #2 drone race. yeah, but they'd still be the worst drones around. all it'd mean would be that people won't shoot your drones, and that if they try your drones will actually be doing something helpful to justify their embarrassing lack of dps."
"i do think a 4x buff is a bit excessive, though- go 2-3x and let skills & ship bonuses make up for that little extra mile. hell- iirc there's a proteus setup that gets a double bonus to drone hp (20% per level)- which would be getting kind of ridiculous. especially considering the size of the drones- essentially you're talking about a destroyer tanked like a battlecruiser. times 5."
"this. there is nothing stopping a curse pilot from speccing in gallente drones, even though its an amarr ship. all these people crying that it would give amarr 'the best drones' to make the em drones usable are tards. think of drones like ammo and less like a race only items and you'll start to understand. a domi pilot could use amarr drones to deal em damage, but why when ogre iis are just so much better in every aspect?"
"much needed. thanks to mistress for the excellent series of loophole posts"
"i don't see why sd-ing should be adressed.it's a tactic to keep the honour to yourself, that km junkies see this as a loophole is there problem. it silly to generate a km when you sd just to get to your clone station when not having a cj available.so the only reason you wan this is to boost your ego."
"+1ms for csm"
"fix it, i can't see it.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.seriously, it's getting worse each patch, i could look past all that mess of flashy graphics if at least i could see the probes themselves, but instead ccp is making them darker each patch. in conjunction with the shadow cast by the solar system plane they become pretty much invisible. the screenshot above is from a class 4 wormhole system, which is one of the brightest solar system background graphics you will find, it is worse in other systems. please ask ccp to finally fix it. for bonus points get them to punch their graphic desingers in the face for being obnoxious on purpose, i've got no other explanation for this..."
"sometimes ccp take the \"we're in space, it's dark here!\" thing a bit too far- there's no reason for shadows like that to occur."
"this. pretty is fine, invisible is not. also, can we get the arrows on the drag boxes to rotate to face us? be nice to be able to actually see them and not be edge-on."
"dunno, for me its actually much better now. depends a bit on your screen i guess."
"depends on your computer hardwareon my main pc it looks ok, but on my laptop it's worse than the op's imagesupport that the game should be playable on more hardware"
"something needs to be done regarding the logoffski mechanic. i've posted on the forums several times about it. if it means that a handful of legitimate internet disconnections are blown up to stop what is a far greater threat to the integrity of eve, then so be it.heck, having a logged off character just sit in space for 30 minutes would be better than current mechanics.ccp, please do something about the logoffski mechanic."
"ccp did not change the logoffski mechanic because if you lose a kill, people get miffed, if you lose a multi-billion ship to a disconnect people ragequit.since an overhelming majority is off \"bears\", losing subs and not losing some killmail is what ccp consider \"the lesser evil\"."
"logging off is so gay..."
"disconections usually result from dropped or corrupt packets caused by whatever problem exists in the line. it would be a simple matter for ccp to make the client actually send a logoff request when you click the little x once this system is in place there would be no more need for an extended timer the system would detect a dropped connection and take apropriate measures to assure your safty wheras someone closing the client would have the normal or an extended timer"
"forum ban should equal in game ban and visa- versa.item: player character has been banned from forum use for a length of time for inappropriate forum activity. player character should also be banned from the game.example: player does something that is inappropriate and has been warned but continues to act inappropriately, this person gets banned from the forums. his or her actions should also be punishable within the game. there should be no difference between the two. with eve being such a social engineering type game, one directly effects the other in my opinion. solution: your ban in my opinion should be based on your internal ip address, when this occurs and should be continual until either your forum ban is served or your in-game ban is served. thoughts: with all of the negativity in eve-online within the forums and in game i feel it is imperative that we punish those that can not follow the eve community standards."
"supported."
"sounds good! completely agree with you, someone who decides to make a fool of himself through inapppropriate actions and or trolling on the forums should be aware that there are ingame consequences for his vile actions.supported."
"it is an atrocity that scumbags can be impolite and rude on the forums and not feel the consequences in game. giving my unwavering support. thank you liiza valora, for you eternal vigilance."
"there is nothing i hate more than a terrible forum poster that can still play the game.supported."
"i agree, these horrible people must be punished.supported."
"i giggled a little bit. oh, and supported."
"\"supporting\" the concept of banning people in-game who have not actually done anything wrong inside the actual game. bow before zymurgist, god of eve!(no offense, z )"
"i approve of this product and/or service."
"another excellent proposal. +100 internets points and supported"
"so punish the eve community because they act acording to their own standards. sound only reasonable to me. (also, plz giv linkz to where the standards are documentated. thx.)i don't think this goes far enough. the rich could just create accounts for the purpose of getting around bans and they can hire hackers and stuff to get around other limitations too. ccp should go through every detail of the offending account and ban every other account with even remote similarities. i'd advice going through chat logs too and reading forum posts to get all possible complices too. the complices should be banned for a shorter time. also ban people not reporting offending behavior on the forums. this is a war and you should choose a side. maybe add a section to the eula/tos so you have a duty to report anything you think is against the spirit of the eve community. you should be forced to choose between the misfits or the community. eve is about making choises, so no true eve player could object to this. anyone against the eve community should be banned until he chooses the correct side to ally with. i'm sure other people can give more details on how we can ban everyone from the game who goes against the eve community. we can't let these renegades ruin the positive and gay atmosphere we have here in this thread and on the forums."
"fail troll is fail.and stupid.stop being stupid. it's annoying."
"i see what you just did there, very good."
"item-unjustified premise.example-not really an example at all, just a rehash of the premise with a sentence added on here and theresolution-unworkable, ip's change every time one accesses the internet for a lot of people, for example, me (see what i did there?)thoughts-what eve community standards? eve online is filled with sociopathic pvpers sociopathic carebears; its a dysfunction junction ffs. appealing to common decency in this game is an exercise in ludicracy. thats how eve has been for years now, thats how it will be, and thats why it is a good game.prove to me that the eve playerbase has an actual moral code as a group, and that being terrible at poasting (like you and me) contravenes this, and i might take you seriously enough to provide a real reason why i dont support this other than your ineptitude at making an argument."
"this should produce some nice tears."
"support"
"how has this not been implimented already?"
"fully supported; in fact, the reverse order should also be highly enforced.example: someone is repeatedly a troll in the ingame chat. he should not only be banned from the game but his access to the forums should be removed as well. this will ensure that everyone is much nicer and helpful ingame. much needed change!"
"loving your recent ideas m8, supported."
"and they should ban people with ugly avatar's and huge feet with unclipped toe nails...truthfully though some people in this game really are anti-social, they seem to really hate people so why play a game full of people..."
"a goon came up with this before anyone else? holy ****ing moses. absolutely supporting this most awesome idea."
"not as good as the various proposals to open up pos lab slots publicly, but since ccp has nixed those, this seems to be the next-best thing."
"i hope this minor change to your quote clears things up for you."
"it has been proposed a lot of times already. it will damage new players most as older players will be capable of put up a research pos in high sec by themselves or paying someone to start a corporation with the needed standing. to me it seem more a way to kick in the balls budding industrialist than anything useful. will not touch market hubs, it will simply add more hauling;it will increase manufacturing and research cost for new industrialist while all the others use posthere will be no more people building in low sec than today as there are a lot of moons in high sec.it will increase ice prices and add pos spam but i suppose that as long as other people is forced in that game it is all ok."
"yes"
"support.but please introduce variable taxing regarding trade volume too, that will disperse trading hubs."
"might cause some problems, but considering the problems it would solve, i'm willing to suffer the consequences."
"pos aren't free to setup or maintain, so older players putting one up blindly could find themselves at a disadvantage in a hurry. on top of that pos are actually vulnerable to disruption, giving new players an alternate way to muscle in on the competition.there are already plenty of manufacturing slots in highsec (nevermind lowsec/nullsec) that are rarely used, for which costs wouldn't move noticably. yes, it would involve more hauling to use them; i consider trading effort for profit to be completely in the spirit of eve's economy.i see this change as mostly working against the entrenched industrialists living in jita 4-4 with billions of isk worth of buy and sell orders up at all times, who can make just as much profit without ever leaving the station as an industrist setup in a more remote area. if a battleship were 500k isk cheaper to build somewhere out in the slums it would be substantially easier for a new player working in batches of 3-5 ships to compete with the entrenched players who never leave 4-4."
"as someone using 60+ slots at a time, i support this idea."
"browsing through any forum, especially general discussion, you see tons of threads that follow the format of\"ccp you must read this immediately i am an important person.\" this get's extremely annoying after the 6th such topic all on the first page.i propose that ccp setup a filter such that any thread that has the term \"ccp\" in the name be immediately deleted. this would make many people happy i believe."
"idiots will be idiots, filtered or not. i don't see this really helping matters any."
"i'll bet if ccp sees those they laugh until they **** their pants. why ban that kind of fun???"
"ccp please ban the op. clearly he is insane."
"choice between 141000 isk and 10 rss scan probes. seriously? i know minmatar is \"hard mode,\" but this is just ****ing stupid."
"if you want to change something, give us some background info, and a proposal for a reasonable fix. as someone who has no experience with the epic arcs, i have no idea how much or how little work is involved, and how that reward compares to other races. also, are there more potential awards for the minmatar arc, or just those two?"
"you could try assaulting the agent when walking-in-stations arrives."
"for reference, a good l4 mission can easily be over a million of agent reward alone, not counting bounties, time reward, loot, or salvage. i haven't tried the new epics yet, but 141k would be an embarrassing reward for a l3 mission, never mind a l4 arc.assuming op hasn't tarded out somewhere along the line, and that this is actually the reward, fully supported."
"did you have fun though? were you challenged? surely that's more important than any material reward."
"it's not just the minmatar arc, the gallente and amarr ones are equally crappy.there is no faction standing gain either, and at the end of the arcs there is some crappy implant or module that is worse than the stuff already available on the market. (a 2% armor hitpoints and 2% armor repair bonus for the gallente implant, or a cov-ops cloaking device, for example).the missions themselves are sorely disappointing too, and the branching once again doesn't really have much of an impact."
"so i looked up the rewards for the various epic arcs. caldari gets a hyasyoda mobile laboratory, with 4 me, 4 pe, 6 invent for 600 cpu, 110k pg. given that a regular ml is 90m, this one i expect to sell for at least 150 even after it stabilizes. between now and then, a lot more. the other rewards amount to basically a pile of junk that no player bar entity could ever find interesting. drone link augmenters? prototype cloaks? 141 freaking thousand isk? these aren't epic rewards, these are epic fail. i can think of no reason for this sort of reward structure - there's not enough beer in iceland to make this seem like a good idea. either the player base has collectively missed something, ccp is genuinely trying to screw over non-caldari missioners, or whoever designed these missions is a blizzard spy. this kind of stupid doesn't happen naturally."
"with something that can 1) restrict people with \"trial\" accounts to \"new member only, without permisions to post links2) restict posting to something like once every 10 min3) more activily filter/delete posts that contain links to spyware."
"trial accounts can only ever post in the new player section of the forums. those spambots are paid accounts. and the forum overhaul is coming soon(tm)."
"there hasnt been a worthwhile topic in there for weeks, its just a constant rain of mindless smack towards anything with a pulse....or if removing it isnt possible, please start permabanning those responsible for degrading it (you know who you are), or at least take some action towards saving it from the pit of intelectual decay it currently resides in....."
"to be honest, i like caod being a cesspool. prevents the idiots from cluttering up the useful forums too badly. i might change my mind if i thought it could be fixed, but that's about as realistic as setting up a leafs/canadiens forum and expecting civil debate. no, the only thing that's going to happen is that you're going to get sworn at in two official languages."
"i've seen something like that happen in another game- trust me, you don't want those guys invading other channels if coad gets the hammer. ban people? sure- but don't delete the forum."
"i pretty much agree with drake here. it'd be interesting in some ways, but really the mission for those 1-51 hours is to go reinforce other poses. most pos combat doesn't take place at a single pos, it takes place over a decent area of space. i can't see the added complexity justifying the results."
"oh yay, more boring stuff in sov warfare.bad idea."
"right now the raptor and the crow are at the bottom of the interceptor food chain because of two reasons1)rockets blow2)and the raptor cant track for crap at high speedsi suggest swapping the two interceptors rolesthe crow would become the interceptor with the warp disruption bonus and the raptor would become the combat variant.crow10% bonus to kinetic missile damage 10% bonus to missile velosity15% reduction to mwd signature radius, 5% bonus to warp scrambler and disruptor rangeraptor10% bonus to small hybrid range 15% bonus to small hybrid tracking, and 15% reduction to mwd signature radius"
"1. try fitting blaster on your crow? you got turret hardpoints.2. crow rocks for tackling big ships. not so much for ceptor vs stuff close range stuff."
"1) fix rockets, then. 2) depends what it's tackling. raptor can hit a battleship just fine, and same with a cruiser as long as it doesn't get in too close. if you fit it to track better, it can do just fine against frigates, for that matter. the numbers are nothing special, and a tracking bonus would help a lot against smaller targets, but i don't think that justifies swapping roles."
"hmm, one ship doesn't perform as well as another one?a game where not everyone is on a perfectly even playing field? scary.no support for yawt. (yet another whine thread)"
"thats was quite a contribution..can no one start a thread about any damn thing on this forum without being accused of whining?"
"tortugan is right.... and your whining about whining? : o p"
"not sure you read the first part of my post. that a ship is the worst at something doesn't mean it needs a buff- it means that the game is diverse. \"when everyone is special, no one will be.\" be creative in your fits, and counter the cookie cutter fits that other people always use to whine for buffs/nerfs."
"putting a 'remap-card' in the eve store wouldn't be such a bad idea. although it could create a canyon between rich and poor players.therefore, apply rules such as: 'one can only use one card each 3 months'.i can understand people who say 'no!' to this as it can make skill training faster/easier for the more wealthier players. but, making a f*ck-up with the remap and being almost unable to train your skills is also a thing we don't want.personally, i make 2 pages of notes and 'skill trees' before i even considere a remap, but may i screw up, i would love to buy one of those cards.on the other hand, if people fail because they don't think before they act, i always say: 'just let darwin do his job'.conclusion: dont ditch this idea just yet."
"no"
"\"we all make mistakes\"i usually find that the people who say that make a lot of them daily. and expect them to be easily fixed...you have plenty of time to research the cause and effect of your choices and can always change yer mind before clicking the \"done\" button.i don't support this..."
"mining has never been as profitable as running highlevel missions and now with the new wormhole opps it is gettting harder and harder to pull in a decent profit. aside from a few bonuses training exhumers to level 5 really serves no purpose. my proposal add the 4 and 5 strip miner variants that we have been asking for since the dawn of time. missioners just got a massive isk fountain in the form of wormhole opps so i think it is time for miners, especially the solo high sec miners that have no use for orcas to get a isk fountain of their own in the form of better exhumers."
"not supported, an extra strip miner would be too much, two more be game breaking."
"it wouldn't be game breaking if you limited cargo capacity it would just make the ship fill faster besides when worm hole opps net over a billion isk in one night where it takes a high sec miner several days to make 50 mil the game is already broken in favor of fighter jocks"
"if the miners want more profit, perhaps tuning the tritanium price will be in order?seriusly, the miners hold the economy in their hands. to bad there will always be someone that will lower the price to get the minerals sold.when trit was at 2.0 isk, an active miner with skills + support did 18m ish. if the price go upp to 4, well thats 36m isk/hour. point is, if the price go up, so does mining profit. and btw, wh ores are great isk for miners!"
"it has been shown on these forums time and time again that an increase in yield would not increase a miners isk/hour. extra strips would increase how much ore everyone can mine, leading to a proportional increase in supply. when supply increases price usually decreases.im sure akita t has a detailed calculation somewhere in the s&i section if you would like to look into it more.-vic"
"a solo hulk can pretty trivially make 10 mil an hour, so if it takes you several days to earn 50 mil, you're not playing very much. wormholes earn, in my experience, around 30 mil/player-hour, depending on how the drop rate changes are going this week. wormhole running also happens in 0.0, meaning that ship losses are way more common(yes, even when people go around suicide ganking you), and they require more skill, often more coordination, and can't be done afk. also, exhumers 5 is a high-rank specialized skill. you don't need a reason to train it to 5 any more than a hac pilot needs a reason to train hac 5. if you want to spend a month getting 5% better at a particular ship, you can. if not, move on to something else. i know lots of people who train exhumers 5, and they don't need a 5-strip barge to do it."
"you are basically wrong. mining can be very profitable. add an orca for hauling and you suddenly rip through complete belts."
"as you can log in only 1 character for account, it will make no difference."
"not gonna happen unfortunatlly, no csm will rise this and even if someone did it wouldn't pass, and even if it passed ccp won't implement it. also, this:"
"not realise eve was even supposed to have sound tbh."
"i like the idea of a ship for scientific purposes, for those of us that are research/invention and for those that are exploration (only). decent mids, decent tank, bonus for astrometric-related stuffs. dedicated high for probe launcher, small drone bay that won't accommodate scout drones... it's a nice idea.don't really need a heavier transport or a logistics cruiser."
"your ideas are, respectively, strategic cruisers, transport ships, and logistics. i see no reason to duplicate any of these classes, nor any obvious way of improving upon them. keep their faction-specific lp rewards to things like implant sets, i'd say."
"so gents, in order to stop this slightly on topic... how do you feel the current csm has done so far? are you happy with the volume/quality of issues raised thus far. we're off to iceland in a few weeks so obviously there will be more to report on when we get back."
"what?"
"you could do what i do at work. that is to tape a big hand on the door jam for pats on the back. csm3 has 'raised the bar' in terms of the quantity of issues raised.perhaps folks are just afraid to put anything else on your plate at this time.good luck in iceland.i wish i could go but since i didn't turn in my vehicle for the cash for clunkers program i had to throw money at it."
"damn, i was hoping the forum would be reduced to the sole sticky (which should be unstickied already)"
"the best thing about this forum section is, that 50%(at the time of posting) of the threads shown are keylogger threads."
"bring back the old effect please."
"/signed"
"yes."
"signed."
"this"
"like.. if so many people agree.... could we get some attention? i have seen no reason not to implement this so far... and i still fail to understead the reason to -25% rate of fire penatlty."
"nice that the problem is supposedly getting looked at, but we'll keep bumping this thread until it's fixed."
"agree with above poster.."
"i believe that says it all, really."
"well, ccp has a really weird idea here. i think our sandbox just got destroyed. i wonder how goonswarm, pandemic legion, against all authorities, razor, morsus mihi, wildly inappropriate etc etc, will react to losing their sov to a bunch of 12-14 year old finger twitchers. if you own a supercap it just pretty much became worthless, and i'm not sure caps are worth that much now either. all that being said, i spoke with several first person shooter fans who really really want this on the pc. they do not like playing consoles. so my two cents is you ought not exclude fps pc players from your market share ccp."
"i like the idea. i think it will expand the playerbase of \"greater eve\" to include fps gamers. but, i'm sorry, consoles were not meant for fps games. i would love to ad dust514 to my daily regiment but you really must consider expanding it to include pcs. at the same time, you have to be careful not to throw eve out of balance, and to watch for hacking which is rampant in the fps world.summary: 1: i like the idea. 2: make it for pc too, not only consoles.3: careful how you unbalance eve, you don't want dread pilots angry at you.4: hacking is rampant in fps, this is your biggest problem in a perpetual world."
"i don't own a console.i am not willing to buy one.if dust comes out for pc, i would try it, and if i like it, i would buy it. if it comes out for console, i will not be able to play it, hence, i am not buying it. maybe it is simpler to make games for consoles or whatever but buy doing so, you exclude alot of potential cutomers."
"how nice of you to offer your opinion on things.the number of people who play fps on consoles eclipses those who play on the computer. it is the way of things."
"guys, this is a sales figures thingy. don't exaggerate on this. it's still a long time till dust hits reality and several decisions can be made until then.until now we know close to nothing about this game and the implications on eve and sovereignty."
"to be honest i get bored of reading every ones post as they all say the pretty much the same thing so i haven't read everything.my post will also no doubt be lost amongst the many that will surpass it however:i agree that dust should hit pc markets aswell as console markets but we have to remember than when halo went to xbox exclusivity with halo2 millions of people switches to console fps and when the pc version of halo 2 emerged a few years later almost no one played it.my main problem is that dust isn't halo its more battlefield (who's console platform of the game plummeted in players due to its inherent nature of it being larger and more involved game than jumping into a smaller map and shooting people until some one gets the most frags. like halo and cod)however the reasons for ccp going into consoles with this type of fps mmo is understandable and some what courageous, whether this works out for them will only be truly known upon the games release.all i know is that i personally will be buying the game as my interest in the eve space race is some what dwindling and only as long as dust doesn't require an extra subscription ontop of the already expensive xbox live subscription.of course once the next xbox(1080 ) is released dust will be sent to the place all my original xbox games ended up, the dusty loft(attic). this will no doubt be around the time a pc version is released, which would make sense for a development company.after all of that i would still prefer a pc version but will still buy the console version providing it is popular with the on-line console community probably a month after its release."
"/signed / uh forgot to check"
"alienating your base is never a good thing, just ask soe."
"allow us to save bookmarks just like fittings for a whole corporation or even alliance.reason:i am living in unknown space for nearly three months now, with 20 other people at the zenith. we spread the bookmarks by putting them into the hangars where people can copy them. its a repetitive and dull job but we have to do it. most likely we have round 30-40 bookmarks each day, needed by many people. i don't know where the bookmarks are saved, client or server, but it takes a long time for the client to load the content of a bookmark container. round 30-120 seconds for a container with many bookmarks. thats additionaly to the copying process itself a pain in the ass waste of time.allow us to save this time. allow alliances to give theyr members up-to-date bookmarks of jumpbridges. allow us to save bookmarks in a way other people have easy access to it. hey, we are 21.000 years in the future, aren't we? ^^"
"the implications of this would be broader than you think - it'd change fleet movement a fair bit, i expect. that said, i don't consider that a drawback, and it makes sense. supported."
"i totaly agree i have had bookmarks saved so i can contract them to my corpmates however the bookmarks dissappeared from my item list and are still lost, this needs to be fixed"
"i am mobius fierce and i support this proposal."
"why do people keep trying to get a reduction on the jump clone timer? no."
"not all of us play 23/7. the time we do play is valuable. we can always fall back on pod jumping to get into the action, but that brings up the question \"why should character farmers get skills faster than those actually playing the game?\""
"hmm.. as much as i would like this.. and i really would, i can't support it. a change of that nature would disproportionally benefit two groups that already have significant advantages. very active players and larger alliances. bigger alliances in general benefit more from logistical changes than smaller ones do, and this is most definately a logistical change. the more active players will be able to operate between multiple locations, with less concern about having to worry about putting themselves in harm's way. this would make wardecs more difficult to prosecute, bountied players easier to get away, defense fleets would be proportionally larger, but so would staging location attack fleets (both of which benefit larger alliances over smaller ones).as far as verys second argument, if you are operating in 0.0 space, its generally easier just to fly a clone down in a cheap ship to a station, buy the ship you want there, even if it is more expensive,(dependent of course on how well stocked it is), then jump back and forth as the desire arises.sorry, not supported.. though much desired."
"while they're at it, how about adding a graceful logout mechanism for ships in space?"
"all for it.."
"is this really not possible?"
"i would love for this to be implemented however i do wonder if there is a reason why this is already not implemented like for say security reasons or network issues."
"supported, was always curious why this didn't exist already."
"supported"
"suported !!!!!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i think the 2 second delay itself is manageable, but the expression of the delay in the ui is pretty awful. the message that appears when you click too soon lasts longer than 2 seconds, so it's very difficult to know whether or not your next click has produced an updated scan if you're not moving.not supporting the original complaint, but i would support a change in the ui that simply greyed out the scan button for 2 seconds after clicking it, as an alternative to the current message./ben"
"got my thumb, irritating as hell trying to solo with this change."
"please change it back"
"way too long of a delay. and the message is annoying as anything."
"/signedthe reasons have been posted before by other people, so i won't go into those again."
"directional scanner needs a complete rewamp. meanwhile, this delay is insane."
"signed."
"tttttttttttttttttttttttttt"
"ccp your ******ed.. just sayin.. sexually.."
"i understand there is a problem, but lower the timer or put a timer on 360 degree scans only to reduce lag, 2 seconds is too long for every scan."
"ccp, you gotta find another solution for a good replacement of current scanner. 2 seconds wait timer isnt the way to go..."
"yeah"
"haey"
"now there is an idea.... maybe reduce the directional timer to 0.5 seconds, but keep 360 at 2 seconds :d"
"terrible idea ccp."
"yeah, new scanner is an absolute crap.looks like there are less and less pvp-oriented devs in eve :("
"signed"
"support"
"/signed."
"1.0"
"i, too, am gay."
"congrats for nerfing non-consensual pvp againdo you ever think when you make changes like this? if you're gonna do it, it should be less that half a second delay and the message shouldn't reset the bloody timer. or how's about you just don't do it, at all."
"yep. 100% support."
"signed!"
"signed"
"signed."
"signed, me and most of my corp are really ****ed off by this."
"the answer to that is simple, fly a real f***ing ship, interceptor.. pftgood job on the 2 second delay"
"fixit pwetty plz"
"/signed"
"agreed, totally useless nerf that servers little/no purpose apart from annoying the hell out of pvpers. but, oh wait, who cares about them anymore?"
"this has to end.i might understand a 0.1sec delay."
"this is one of the most annoying and slightly pointless updates you've ever made. i can understand your need to implement changes to improve server performance but i hardly think nerfing solo pvp even more, is the only way to do it."
"horrible nerf is horrible."
"i agree to this completely the scan nerf needs to go :p."
"another one"
"please increase timer to 2 mins"
"/signed. repeal this *******s change"
"change it back to 0 delay. no compromises."
"remove it completely, make a new type of scan probe"
"ccp probably won't remove it. how about a topic asking ccp to make scan probes more usable?"
"so uhm, this thread isn't slowing down on postcount increases. is ccp going to ignore us completely? cause its getting a bit silly."
"if i ain't broke don't fix it.and it wasn't broken so what was the point?"
"totalt disagree with this 2sec delay. this is breaking a big part of the gameplay that is scan to find people to kill and scan hostiles to not be killed. at least follow the scan resolution of the ships -> no delay for small ships/interceptors and 2 secondd for biggest ships. between it's proportional."
"what a stupid idea!"
"yes, do away with the delay please!"
"adapt or gb2wow"
"i agree , this new scanner sucks the big one !."
"ccp aka chinese communist party is made of carebearing gm`s shooting lasers at roids all day thinking only at how to improve missions and mining and how to nerf anything and everything having to do with pvp. this is nothing but another attempt to make life easier for those macros, miners or ratters, so, hell yeah i`m signing it! signed!"
"y"
"2 seconds makes gathering fleet intel impossilbe."
"really really bad ideaplease remove"
"signed"
"scanning on the go is so awful!change this back!"
"signed. absolutely stupid change, fix it ccp."
"your an idiot for making such an angry post then not even checking the \"support this topic\" box."
"there already was a delay, there is a little timer thing that looks like the session change timer in the scanning window, but sadly that doesn't count out the 2 seconds now."
"i laughed a little, the joke is once again on us."
"crap of the 1st rate."
"irritating change."
"this make it take way to long to find a ship at a celestial when you enter a system, just getting it down to 90<U+FFFD> scan can take 6 sec if you are unlucky, its was hard enough to find targets before this nerf"
"yes, once in a year (or lifetime), maybe with some payment in real money, and history of changes."
"no. don't be a dumbass and chose your characters name wisely upfront at creation.maybe some more drastic hints from ccp at character creation screen that you really will have to live with your characters name all the upcoming years of eve..."
"perhaps ccp would consider doing this on a one-time basis in conjunction with an upcoming expansion. after that you're stuck with it. and of course there would be a fee similar to a portrait swap."
"bamp"
"1.0"
"while i do think that people who really not want or have the capability to fight a war do need a way to not fight apart from the dock for a week method just to pander to the big boys who want to beat down on easy targets i think mitch has brushed upon an important thing, a pos. once a corp has hung a tower it has basically left the play eve with no commitments stage behind and planted themselves in the target corp bracket by \"holding space\", even if it is just a moon in high sec for a tower. from that point on they should be wardeccable with no escape from it, wether they leave an alliance or join one the war sticks until the deccing corp stops paying or accepts surrender. this from a carebear btw"
"your point about having a pos making you truly playing eve at the multiplayer level (prior to that you can basically just belong to an npc corp, sit in empire, and play eve single-player) is a good one. i think more in terms of player-owned corps as the breakpoint for the same thing. as long as you're in an npc corp, you're pretty much not yet playing the game with other folks (or perhaps more accurately, dodging much of the accountability of doing so). once out, wardecs should, as i believe they were designed, stick."
"poasting on page eleventy-two to keep this topic high on the food charts"
"one time i had implants that i couldn't repackage and sell on the market. the gm response was that the implants had been \"used before\", and therefore couldn't be sold."
"wiki has become useless. spam bots are littering the posts history, so no undo anymore.csm, do something about it...can't it simply be merged into the eve-online wiki? so it wouldn't be your task to keep the wiki software patched etc..."
"terrible. you show little to no experience or even knowledge on minmatar battleships. as someone who can fly all 4 races battleships - minmatar aren't even a choice. i'd trade minmatar battleship 5 for mining 5 atm."
"please look into this.please look at what roles each ship is intended to fill. if they don't have one, this is a problem. please revisit the value of alpha strike in a post hp buffed eve, and please, please have another look at ac's and falloff. at the very least, please consider a falloff script for track comps, and the addition of a lowslot module that increases tracking and falloff, rather than tracking and optimal."
"adding support."
"i believe i've already added my support to this, but i'll try again. fake edit: guess you can't!i've just been reading up on the discussion since i saw it last...it really saddens me that most of the people willing to support this argument offer concrete facts and logical assertions when they do it, and the main detractors offer nothing of the sort.the main reasons against fixing projectiles i've seen:1) minmatar have good sub-bs ships! you deserve to suck at the bs level.2) balancing weapons (i.e. making large projectiles a viable option) makes the game less fun. which sounds the same to me as saying, \"games are less fun when there isn't an underdog you know you can thump 95% of the time.\"hopefully any future nay-sayers can mount a better defense than that. i do love me some statistics battles.in any case, i really hope this is brought to ccp's attention, and if it is, that they give it serious consideration."
"to important to be forgotten"
"well.. so far i have yet to see either csms or ccp acknowledge this thread (or any of the other ones).. especially considering that larkonis trassler, a csm, said he would look into it. needless to say, i expected at least some information back about what the hold up was or that it was under review by the csm group.so, i think we'll wait a couple days, then on aug. 27th, please send an e-mail to all the current csms, and their alternates that we would like them to make this issue a high priority, and that they.. as representatives of the eve populous, should take this up with ccp immediately and not do delay any further. it is important for each of you who do send an e-mail to the csms to do so respectfully and politely (i.e. no cusswords). doing so gives dignity to the situation, as well as gives you and the person you are talking to honor and respect.the primary csms are as follows:dierdra vaal - chairmanvuk laumazzilliuzastrow jerik finneganavalloclarkonis trassleromber zombiemeissa anunthielthe alternates are:issler dainzeserenity steeleshatana fulfairaschip mintagoweazy zagain, please be respectful. as frustrating as it can be to be ignored, you will not help the situation by letting that frustration cause you to say things that aren't useful."
"isnt this forum exactly for this purpose? shouldnt the csm read this at least weakly?"
"considering that when this issue was presented.. again, they had two or three upcoming meeting listed.. including one that was open for new topics. why it wasn't put on that meeting, i do not know. all i do know is that several topics, less critical, less popular, and started later were discussed instead."
"keep up the good work orakkus."
"well, your right. i hope they dont get ****ed but instead will discuss this and solve the problems."
"3 times might be enugth.supported, since it not only makes amarr drones usefull but gives a lot new tactical options with drones."
"i'm a drone user, and i support this message. using eft pre apwhatever 1.5, and my current skills on a vexor hull w/o any mods my dps for a full flight of t1 meds isamarr-78caldari-98gallente-108minmatar-88lights-amarr-45caldari-61gallente-68minmatar-55in both cases the amarr are the worst choice for dpsedit:forgot to support it"
"we can thrash out the details later, but supported on general principles. it becomes rather obvious that there is a problem when i've never seen an amarr drone in my entire time in space."
"supported"
"so so very much agreed. tackling and putting a mothership into structure only to have it self-destruct and drop no loot and give no killmail sucks. he wouldnt be blowing himself up if we werent shooting him.. therefore we get credit for the kill!"
"1.0"
"supported except for pods"
"i agree with the fact that ships that self-destruct in combat should generate a killmail(with the mention that the said ship self destructed).however, i don't think that unagressed ships that aself destruct due to varios reasons that are unrelated to combat(insurance fraud, inability to transport them etc) should appear on the kbs."
"i agree something should be done to avoid this. but i also agree with the fact that there may be an issue of keeping fit secret etc etcso maybe the solution is not: generate a killmail, but something else.1) this happens a lot with capitals, so just extend the timer for a capital self destruct to 5min. this should provide the attacker enough time to kill the enemy ship.2) do not give an insurance compensation if a pilot self destructs. atm the only disadvantage to a self destruct goes to the one who survives. by denying the insurance payout to the loser he also loses by self destructing. so if he wants to get some money ( even default payout ) he should let his opponent destroy him."
"removing insurance payout for self-destruct always seemed reasonable.i'm a combat history buff myself, so i actually consider the km generation more important, but would be perfectly happy to see the insurance payout nuked as well."
"introduction. i've been spending quite some time on these forums, reading assembly hall and f&i forums quite alot. in these forums a quite common topic appears (less now though) and it's about insurance payout when concord is involved. what strikes me when i read these texts of people thinking that the insurance company are complete morons when paying insurance to ships that have been concorded; is that almost evry time someone says \"a real insurance company wouldn't pay out insurance if you used the car in a armed robbery\". and i can agree a rl insurance company wouldn't do that. neither would they insure a combat vessel, built for one thing: combat. also, accidents happen. like the por guy in a mammoth that accidental smart bombed my drone and rather quick got reduced to ashes. what about him? will there be an ingame trial for that pilot, or will i, as a victim decide his insurance fate?so people want some reality?/introductionproposal.remove any insurance on vessels that are designed for combat.keep insurance for industrial type ships that can't fit any weapon system such as turrets and missile launchers. void the insurance if the pilot fits any offensive mods, such like the smartbomb.i did not include drones, since i consider them protection from npc drones. /proposali'd like to see a discussion about the good and bad stuff for this insurance measure. i am aware that this can hurt the pvp part; i did however write this proposal as an option to make eve that bit more real. i personally think the insurance is fine, it need not alter. but as this seems to be a problem, this is my 0.02 isk on how i best think the issue should be resolved."
"rubbish idea tbh. insurance opens up pvp to a lot of people, people abusing the system isn't a call for removing but perhaps just a revisal of payouts to concorded ships. removing all insurance is a baaad idea imho.out of morbid curiosity, how much do you pvp?"
"not much now days. i did however have this stupid idea to only pvp in t2 ships. so insurance never really have affected me. i am however packing my bags, putting fuel in my megathron and heading south to take up the hatchet of war.calling upon rule #1 of pvp:never fly anything you can't afford to lose... seriusly"
"support"
"only insurance change i will ever support is removing insurance from concorded ships.if you remove insurance from the game, just flying battlecruisers almost because like flying t2 cruisers. for those players (like me) who make just enough isk to keep up the pvp habit, removing insurance would destroy the game. i would be reduced to flying possibly t2 fitted t1 cruisers. battlecruisers would be too expensive to continually buy and lose. you already lose isk through pvp in ammo, mods, and a little bit of isk lost through insurance. if you want to pvp in a nice toy that others can't afford and doesn't pay back insurance, buy a t2 ship and fly it. not supported"
"whatever happened to \"don't fly what you can't afford to lose\" or \"eve is a cold dark place\" or \"adapt or die\"death to insurance!!! you get a free rookie ship if you don't have anything else left!"
"no."
"insurance exists because eve is a game. you don't want a player to be left destitute, so insurance is the way to make sure that even someone who does stupid things has the ability to buy a ship without losing their shirt entirely. it's a necessary role, and i can't support its removal."
"how realistic a game is should never be a primary concern in game design. we are playing a submarine simulator and pretending we are flying spaceships, so we can safely ignore what real life has to say about gameplay. at best it is a secondary issue. by removal of insurance you are removing choice from the game. now people can choose how much they are willing to lose without seriously gimping their ability to play. they can also spend most of their time playing the game instead of grinding isk at the cost of flying inferior ships of the same class and using cheaper modules. people who fly \"un-insurable\" ships are already rewarded by better performance and thus have an advantage over people flying insurable ships.with the removal of insurance you just force some people to fly smaller ships and use cheaper fittings while gaining nothing worthwhile from doing so. you force the people who don't like to grind for money to grind it some more, nerf suiciding yet again and punish newbies for their mistakes. suiciding is balanced well enough as it is, so nerfing it even more isn't justified, especially at the cost of the other two groups. even if you just remove insurance from concord kills, you would still hurt the newbies. i'm pretty sure this was the main reason suiciding was nerfed by buffing concord response times, instead of denying insurance from concord kills.ps. why are you posting about an issue even you don't consider a problem? i'm sure you have your own pet peeves to complain about, so use your time to get them fixed instead of fighting other peoples battles. let the people who think this is a problem defend their own positions. if they aren't willing to put in the effort needed to do it, you shouldn't waste time on it either."
"eve is still a cold dark place and you should open your eyes and take a look at the game as a whole if you don't see that. i'm not going to sum up what makes this game that way for the millionth time.insurance is only a partial coverage of the actual loss, that is the loss of the ship. modules, rigs, cargo; all of these are not covered by insurance and can cost more than the ship itself.insurance is a helpful hand for the starters and those with small wallets as not everybody can afford to fly t2 ships, it does not refund completely however it makers it just a little bit easier. t2 ships however are still worth flying over t1 due to their specialization and bonuses.however concord killed ships should not receive insurance, that's just plain silly."
"agreeing with all but what i removed."
"this. you want more pvp not less. if ensurance helps to keep people fighting, hell yes."
"insurance needs to be a player invested system. if you lose more ships over x course of time, your cost increases by y. security status of systems also needs to play a role in insurance. the reason major alliances don't die like they used to is because it's become to easy to sustain heavy heavy losses in 0.0. i agree with the sentiment that insurance helps to entice pvp. but it shouldn't reward carelessness. bigger ships should have more penalties for insurance too. i think this would create more diversity in the game where every fleet's focus wasn't all dreads or all battleships. it would instead refocus the mindset on bring what you can and we'll adapt.and one thing that still blows my mind is, if i don't buy insurance, why do i get a base payout still. i mean ffs, i don't insure, i lose a ship stupidly and i still get 30 mil for that battleship or 20 bil for that titan loss, i mean wtf? *yes i realize and encourage the fact that titan's can't be insured."
"if someone created a proposal centered around these ideas, i'd be much more likely to support"
"problem spotted."
"there are games that went this route (yes, the issue is all but new).guess what the players did? they'd just unplug the network cable off the pc to \"simulate\" the connection drop."
"have not happened to me, but logging off should not be mean to save your ship."
"sucks."
"i support this, if you make trouble on the forums, you should be kept out of the game to. or maybe just have your training paused."
"i support this idea."
"it should include alts too..cough:: lark ::cough"
"i apologize if this has been mentioned before, but i couldn't find a proposal like it...one thing i have noticed are more missions against other high sec factions (ie. fighting gallente, caldari, etc). some mission runners prefer not to fight these factions due to the security hit. other people love them. anyway, here is the proposal...first of all, you start out like what is currently the case. you're given a random mission against a random faction and you can choose or decline it. this would continue on until you reach a certain standing with the corp or agent etc.eventually the agent likes you enough (maybe at 5.0 standing) where you can tell the agent you prefer not to fight gallente, for example. you just want to fight pirates. you tick a box for it indicating it. this does not mean you would never get gallente missions, but it would decrease your chance of getting those missions. there could be another box for pirates, etc. realistically, an agent who likes you is likely to want to keep you anyway, so it would even fit into a roleplaying setting.i feel this option would allow people to get at least a little bit more enjoyment out of missioning. it's not much but at least it'd be something. ccp has expressed wanting to enhance the mission runner's experience, well this could help."
"heh, you're going to get a lot of \"not supported\" on this one."
"...and could you explain why?"
"i would suspect it has something to do with missioning being too profitable already and people trying to avoid the less profitable missions and the ones giving standing hits. people do that now, but at least it takes some effort.thinking back on my missioning days i would only take angel missions because they pay a lot better then anything else(at least back in the days). pirate missions are also much more faster and lucrative, since you get most of the income without having to loot anything. having this option would have greatly increased my income. this is what the real consequense of this idea would be. anyone able to fly lvl 4s is going to have the standings for this and will choose enemies, that give the best isk/hour. i don't know if this is what you want, but this is what it will be used for. so please buff missioning income and remove even the little downside that comes attached to it, by lowering the chance of getting missions with poor isk/hour and standing hits."
"actually, the idea was more to choose between empire factions and pirates, it wasn't to choose between angels or blood raiders. i have just heard a number of complaints about the fact that there are more empire faction missions being added in so i was trying to think of a solution.if you just allow it to be chosen between empire factions and pirate factions, i don't really see how it would be a problem."
"oops.... that was me above"
"i'll agree that this is annoying, but i don't think that changing it makes sense. it's not flavourful, it boosts something that doesn't really need a buff, and it nerfs gang missions(since one of their current advantages is having more choice in missions), which is also undesirable. no support."
"pirate factions are tied to an area of space, so being in minmatar space would mean more angels even in your system. so the actual effect would still be the same, since people already mission in space with their preferred pirate faction. what is important is, that you can also do this all now, so it isn't like you don't have the option at all. it just has a downside to it. you have the risk of getting no missions to fly at times, but you also have the option of bringing this risk down by having more then one agent available. being picky about your missions should have some negatives attached to it in my oppinion.i would also like to point out, that some problems are not actual problems. more often than not it is just another way of trying to get more for yourself or force others to play the game in a specific way. this is a problem, since everything is tied together in this game and is in competition with other things. missioning is already one of the most risk free and profitable things you can do in the game and it is an infinite resource always available, so there is no competing over it. missioning could use some changes, but a income buff isn't on the list of many."
"well if the one suggesting this doesn't even think it deserves a supported why would anyone else ?"
"i'd be all for it.however, there have to be drawbacks.i'd suggest high standing requirement (6 or 7 even) and a monetary penalty.the agent has to use other means to get the mission done, so he's going to reduce your pay to be able to get someone else to do it.no idea about numbers, but lets say 10% per \"filtering option\".no missions against amarr: -10%none against minmatar either: another -10%, reducing your pay by 20%.and so on.you'll still keep bounties, but the rewards would be reduced. even if you continue to get high-bounty missions, you'll get less than if you'd just accept the standing hit.of course, the choices have to be for a set time, so you can't just switch it on and off whenever you feel lucky."
"oh well. why not. only me tho, my alts stay docked for that one."
"what he said... not supported.why not? because it would be easy mode. choose a side from the npc empires and go with them. can't stand any more of these lousy ultra-carebears who never want to \"ruin\" their standings towards any entity.. bah.."
"yes not supported, i am one of those \"not wanna ruin\" but i make an effort for it an switch around agents in all empires. btw lowsec pirates and suicide gankers are worse carebears...."
"recently a few \"topics\" have popped up in general discussion regarding the recent removal of npc corporation descriptions.the majority of the posters in said \"topics\" are against the change, so it seemed logical to post here.as a question:\"should npc corporation descriptions be put back into the game?\"update:fixed with apocrypha 1.5.1 (wed 9th sep 09)on behalf of everyone who supported this thread, thanks ccp and good job"
"whats the use of a npc corp description?seems to me like just another text file or something to be loaded up after downtime is done,ild say, leave them tbh, i dont know anyone that realy pays them any attention tbh"
"i feel they should replace it, if only to help a player make sense of why some lp stores just give out navy bpc's; and others give out both navy bpc's and ships. those sorts of content reference points go alot farther to helping you remember than you might think. besides, i've heard there are some people who really like that rp fluff."
"it's simply ridiculous that they should flesh out the universe with novels and eve chronicles and then axe the flavor text from the within the actual game; wtf?"
"let us not forget that eve is an mmorpg that means role playing game. as in you have created a universe in which my character exists. removing the flavor text and other npc info from the game removes pieces of that universe.with all the work that goes into developing story lines and writing news releases about the happenings of new eden, why would anyone consider removing npc reference points? it undermines the entire effort of the content development team."
"thanks for your replies peoplethe same as that of the majority of items in eve they add depth to the game.please be sure to check the \"support this topic\" checkbox if you agree/support this topicthanks again"
"yes, they should be restored.i don't understand why they were removed in the first place.need another 10 mb to cache all npc corp descriptions on my hdd? fine, please go ahead!need another 1 mb per patch for changes in those cached descriptions? fine, please do that!after all it's a slippery slope.no one really needs those incredibly long descriptions of the t3 ships (or any other item for that matter) either.if this continues we will really end up with online 3d spreadsheets."
"supported."
"supported"
"i know, scandolous isn't it.put them back."
"supported. i feel like it added to the immersion in the game, and helped understand the background between corps. now no new player knows the difference between suukuvestaa and hyasoda. the function behind the ministry of internal order, the theology council.it used to be that a new player could get some understanding of new eden's lore by reading the description of npc corps. now no one has any idea what makes one corp different from another, and what role they are supposed to play in the universe. please put back in. reading the descriptions of every corp in whose stations i docked was always interesting to me, i'd like to be able to do that again. was there really ever any reason for removing them?"
"i'm not a huge believer in fluff, but this removal goes a bit too far, i'd say. put them back."
"reading fail ftlthought thread title was \"removal of npc corporations\"didn't see descriptions"
"i reported this as a bug a while ago, and they said it was already fixed and closed the bug report.its not fixed, grr!!!"
"no, it was actually an idea that was born out of the first csm delegate threads before they presented ideas to ccp. lvv compiled a list of requests and this idea was one of them that was thought up, but dropped for presentation in lieu of other more pressing matters.origin aside though, i'm glad its been brought up again.supported"
"standings should be taken into account as well."
"i support this"
"supported."
"pos cost is negligible for a veteran. how? destroying some random pos in cruisers? (i did my first research on a ammo bpo when i was still flying cruisers)destroying a pos will be a way to try to stop someone from selling bpc but will in no way free copy/me/pe slots for a young player. here we agree, it will increase hauling, good for those in that business. sure, you pay 500k less to build a bs in a out of way location and then pay 50k for jump (or your play time) to bring it in a trade hub.hardly helpful for the builder, especially as he alredy paid to get the minerals in his building station. again it will help entrenched players with freighter alts and damage new players. but effectively goonswarm is a entrenched alliance, so you are minding your interest, in very eve like fashion."
"most seem to agree that pos warfare is one of the most cumbersome and boring aspects of the game. many also agree that nulsec is impossible for small corp/alliances to even consider holding space in because it is dominated by huge powerblocs and bloated alliances.is there a better, more fun way?first there needs to be an alternative way to sovereignty. i propose an idea of settlements. settlements are established by a corp/alliance on a moon or planet that is suitable (this would require ccp to either make all moons and planets or some of them suitable for settlement which could be an issue)each settlement would have three major statistics the player influences. population, which would be fairly cheap to build up levels and would affect mining and some aspects of money making from a planet or moon. supply, just like supplying a pos a player would have to ensure a settlement was supplied with things such as water, food, equipment. these things are already trade items in the game, here is a great way to make them very valuable. with good supply both population and machinery run well or get bonuses but if supply is lacking or disrupted it will lead to population loss and machinery level drops. machinery, this is the equipment population uses for various things such as control over a star system, making money on the settlement, research etc. this is expensive for the player to build up but the higher its level the more the settlement affects system sov and income.this idea for settlements will lead a greater strategic use of planets and moons in star systems in all of eve nulsec. it will be great for those who want to take a greater role in empire building. running settlements will take minimal management because my other ideas is to set up automated managers and supply rather than doing everything yourself. lets say you could increase the population simply by sending tourists and scientists and exotic dances to the settlement? you can increase the level of the settlements machinery ...i have not figure out how to do that yet. lets talk automated supply convoys. lets say you have a system with a settlement you need to supply, next door is your capital system that has a station or large pos. you can set up an automated npc supply convoy that would bring supplies from one location to the settlement. you set up the times of the convoy, you pay the cost for the materials to be moved, you pay the cost of the ships (haulers, any escort). you could let this convoy supply the settlement or you could do it yourself, just buy the supplies and haul them over in your own ships.now some would say this would create a field day for pirates and enemy to shoot at convoys, exactly right! it would be fun for them and the other side of the coin it would provide a way to draw your enemy in to then gank them too! either way there is more pvp and looting and less player micromanagement and boredom. isnt the fun of a game spending more time doing the things you enjoy and less time doing the things you loath?"
"ccp clearly has some ideas for the sov overhaul, and we're going to have to wait for more info on dust to see what they are. after fanfest, we'll see what the future holds."
"add option to allow fleet access to industrial ship and transport ship cargo holds. pilot would have a configuration option to allow or deny fleet access. i see this opening up new fleet support roles and oportunities for industrial/transport ship pilots like myself.thanks for listening,deji natrin"
"in general only corp hangars were accessible by fleet members.given that fact i cant support your idea.either bring a ship with a corp hangar or jetisson your stuff."
"it's called a jet can.ever hear of im?"
"so i can laugh long and hard. thanks."
"proposed numerous times already, and will hopefully never happen cause it's nothing except e-peen shortage.."
"been raised by csm 3 already. the issue will be raised in iceland in 2 weeks."
"omg! that hauler i popped! the guy had industry implants!! you fail noob!seriously?"
"can we also laugh about your inability to use the search function?"
"hell yeah"
"not necessarily. we've raised the idea of implant reimbursements within goonswarm, but there's no way to police it with the mechanisms in game now."
"and besides, what's wrong with being able to accurately measure the damage you've inflicted on the enemy, or vice/versa? there are uses for that outside e-peen waving, but i wouldn't expect clueless carebears to understand that."
"i think highsec missions need to be beaten severely with the nerf-bat but this (if accurate) seems obscene even to me.of course, it seems all new missions suffer from lackluster rewards upon introduction (l5 in particular had this issue). how about instead of introducing new missions with the lowest possible reward by default and letting the rewards slowly work their way up, you find an intern or two to play-test any new pve content and provide feedback as to what level the rewards should be initially seeded at. or you could even just ask the mission designers where to start off the rewards."
"this. seriouslly epic arcs are not designed for farming but to have 'fun pve content'.people woirries too much over pixel money ffs."
"and i just found my new sig line. thanks hersch."
"^^^"
"i lol'ed supported"
"they're on it."
"i have heard constant whining about low sec being a virtual wasteland. this is mostly caused by the greifer types who attack anyone and everyone. while pvp is part of the game it should not be a way to depopulate areas for ones enjoyment. this said there is a solution. low sec empire space is still empire space, not lawless space. there needs to be a war dec by the aggressing pilots corp before any empire pvp starts. at this point all you need is boredom and you can attack anyone in empire space low sec. you then get a 15 minute aggression flag and thats it. why not make the aggressor and his corporation members suffer for acts of lawlessness. we pay taxes ingame when selling items ingame. you are paying for protection from lawless types. thus, the lawless types should suffer the full weight of lawless acts. what i am proposing will have no effect on null sec. if you are in .0 space it is by definition \"lawless\", however if you are in an empire system, it is a \"law abiding\" system. your game taxes go to support the empires. why do they get your support, yet render none to you. if you wish to commit lawless acts in empire fine. but there should be a cost to you, your corporation and those affiliated with you. say 30 days of empire flagging as a criminally minded corp. no get out of system free cards. in short you do the crime, you do the time. if you attempt to enter empire space, you meet the gate guns up close and personal."
"i would answer seriously, but this has to be a troll.....your stuff? edit:whoops this is assembly hall i'll be nice.lowsec is low sec for a reason. there already are gate guns, and there already are sentry guns. the only thing there isn't is faction spawns and concord. if you take away the freedom that lowsec provides, you essentially kill small gang pvp. save huge battleship and t2 cruier gate and station camps and roaming rr gangs, you essentially kill small gang pvp.edit2 spelling.also describe in more detail how you'd change the mechanics in lowsec....you made it really confusing"
"0.0 is, as space, significantly more dangerous than lowsec, and yet plenty of people live out there. why? because the reward exceeds the risk in their mind. if lowsec worked the same way, there wouldn't be a problem. fix the reward, don't destroy the risk that pretty much defines eve."
"/epic facepalmi'd quit while you still have dignity kid."
"mate, you seem to have missed the point of the term \"low security space\". it's only empire space in the sense that the empires have claimed it for their own- doesn't mean they police it at all."
"alas may be too late."
"worst idea i've ever heard. get out forever."
"so, what will be the difference between empire and low-sec?"
"*cearbear detected*i think"
"indeed, i would go as far as say anyone who's posted in coad more than twice ( hey, we all make mistakes ) should only be allowed to post there and on no other forum section."
"by removing coad, you are basically asking for a goon nerf... how dare you target an alliance like that!"
"ban euthinase everyone in caod"
"so what? better have all the mindless idiots focused into one channel so they stay away from most of the others. it's kind of a honey pot trap and works fine imho.."
"this. gd is bad enough, don't screw it even more please"
"close your eyes instead, easier on the devs"
"this tbh."
"i would like the csm to immediately raise the issues following with ccp:1) what sov levels will dust 514 effect and how?2) what ability will eve players have to interact with dust 514 ground forces?2a) transport?2b) orbital bombardment?2c) manufacture of ground weaponry?2d) contract of organized ground forces?2e) cloning services in supercaps/rorq or a new ship type?2f) can certain ship types come down into atmosphere to provide air support to ground forces? (frigates, assault ships, interceptors)2g) anything else anybody can think of?3) what other factors will effect sov levels? (will pos still have input to sov levels?)4) why was this not discussed at some point with the csm before releasing such a radical change to the eve universe, so some eve player input could be obtained by ccp?any other input would be welcome."
"supported."
"supported: we need to know more details and it would be absurd if external factors could influence the sov in game."
"agreed if ccp is seriouse about makeing a console game afect our pc in game sov this game well bomb. this is to deep of a stratigy game to have 10 and 12 year olds screwwing with our sov."
"even if the csm asks, there is no way they'll be allowed to pass on the answers to us. they signed a nda for a reason, and stuff like this is it. wait for fanfest, because you aren't getting anything more until then."
"there's 38 days left till fanfest. the csm needs at least 2 weeks to get nda covered material cleared for the publics eyes. so just wait till fanfest and we will get more info than even the csm would get."
"this... obviously."
"i don't know if it is wise to wait for ccp's spin at fanfest. i would hope that the csm could raise this issue as soon as possible and continue following up as the issue develops."
"do you really think that the csm will find out anything that ccp doesn't want them to know? we're getting the spin either way."
"delink pos stations from sov and go with a system closer to faction warfare.now you can create any number of situations which require supercap fleets to roaming gangs of frigates."
"that's why i'm suggesting we swap the roles of the two caldari interceptors so the crow can do a better job at tackling, and then the raptor will be the combat varriant interceptor."
"quite the opposite. when one particular ship significantly underperforms or overperforms in a particular role, it doesn't lead to diversity, it leads to uniformity as everyone switches to using the better ship. for the most obvious example, see mission running and the navy raven.if caldari interceptors are underpowered, it reduces diversity because it means interceptor pilots have only 3 decent races to choose from rather than all 4."
"not supported."
"buy isk at my website man its totally not a scam or a viruspersonally i think this is a plot by key loggers to impede the flow of democracy!"
"i want a font that i can read! make it bloody larger. larger!i have to click a few times on the chat window for that to be readable - but at least that is fixable! arial 10 is pushing it a little regarding readability. with lcd display, you want to be running at native for best text contrast. but that's bloody 1920x1080 making the text tiny - even on a 32\"!!. or 1280x1024 on a 19\" is insanity!i want arial 10, arial 12, arial 14 and arial 16 selectable for interface. heck, all of ui.the original post's problem is also caused by font being too darn small.there would also be less confusion in 0.0 regarding gates if all the names were lower case. you know,i,1 o,0 5,s 6,g 8,bvs.i,1 o,0 5,s 6,g 8,bbut for that to be readable, selectable font size is vitally important.if some developer doesn't want to allow changeable font size, his coding editor needs to be changed to white on black with point 8 font immediately!! ps. the website has a tiny font too, but at least one can change that with a modern browser"
"im getting old...i support what kaliba said lmao"
"agreedtry 1680x1050 on a 20\" although iv'e gotten used to it.signed"
"wow this is stupid.. look how many people support this topic.. and ccp has not said a single d@mn thing to us.. are you f*cking serious? signed. get this shat done!"
"love dessies but they are lacking so a booste would be nice.but i think i would like a second tier of them so their are 2 choices per race"
"compulsory bump.also, i too would like a tier 2 dessie for each race. there's two bc's for each race, so where's the second dessie?edit: some faction dessies would be cool too, but i guess that would be pushing it."
"/signed"
"i support this thread.since the ps3 and xbox360 can be mounted with a mouse and keyboard, at least thats what i think to know, i cant see no reason why they wouldnt release it for the pc<U+FFFD>s as well."
"anyone who has been into exploration will know how annoying the current bookmark trading system is. fix it please!"
"i support the idea, but safeguards need to be installed with it. require roles to make a corp bookmark, dont let them be copied, possibly even a role to be able to use them. fleet commanders with the correct role should still be able to warp a fleet to a corp bookmark, this would make it more balanced in regards to spies. they could still get the bookmarks if they got warped to the location (or conned the corp into giving him the role and warped there themselves), but they would have to get there and make a personal bookmark. a balance so getting them is not as simple as just getting an alt in the corp, but still possible."
"you have my vote only if it's pink or purple.real pod pilots paint pink!"
"cool idea."
"simple and fantastic sir!i cant believe even i havent *****ed about thsi before!but i will now till they implement ur idea!red afterburners naow!"
"red ones go fasta. dakka dakka dakka dakka dakka."
"i've never confused the two but it would be nice."
"make blueprints blue... make copies gray."
"supported, 2j in 48 hoours or just simply reduced jump clone timers. more paticipation = more pvp"
"not supported. bolded the reason. eve doesn't need more \"instant projection of power\" over several regions. the ability of pilots to move on a whim makes \"logistics\"/their interception even less important. it's already bad as it is, it doesn't need to be worsened.just a thought:you have several regions under your control, your alliance is fighting a war against neighbour a, on monday you engage them on their turf. on tuesday neighbour b decides \"hey, they aren't at home, now we could try to sneak in through the 'backdoor'\" ... \"suddenly\" all your pilots are back home and killing off every attempt by b. the impossibilty to intercept such pilot movements makes controlling travelroutes less important and puts the emphasis of such a conflict on singular spots (like: station-systems, poses) ... guerilla tactics are useless, large scale battles the only way to achieve anything. \"time\" & \"space\" are important factors as they limit the projection of power. if you have to fly for 2h, having to pass 60+ \"chokepoints\" (in- & outbound gate) controlling space has a different notion as when you just have to use a jumpclone.eve definetly doesn't need the projection of power over several regions being easier than it already is."
"++especially given tq's daily downtime i've never been able to understand why the cooldown wasn't 23 hours instead of 24."
"these reasons fail. if you don't realize that you can get back to your home region without using a jump clone you either fail at this game or have never been in a pvp corp that was willing to teach complete noobs like myself which end of the ship was the front. this proposal just makes life more convenient for those of us who have limited time to play and don't always know in advance which nights we'll have free. for what it's worth, this has more to do with implants than logistics. i personally think the whole attribute system should be scrapped (wtf? learning skills) and replaced with drugs to boost learning speed."
"/signed"
"/supported"
"1. flying back \"manually\" 2. \"podexpress\"1. can be intercepted and takes time. it's not impossible to fly back to your homeregion, but you have to plan ahead if it's a.) worth to do 30jumps in one direction - especially if you have to move trough hostile territory b.) if it's actually a good idea for an alliance to operate over more than a few regions.2. can be really expensive. atleast a good drawback for the instantanousness (sp?) of travel."
"not supported."
"so...ccp should have fixed it instead of bypassing it. :psupported."
"/signed. please."
"/signed"
"*you're"
"surely by now ccp have noticed the massive amounts of negative feedback this idea has got...it wasnt on the test server properly and it sucks on the live server..just get rid of it and we'll forget it ever happened..."
"remove the delay. please."
"signed."
"remove the delay please, or at the very least lower the time in between scans to something like .2 seconds. intie in warp = not very good scanner anymore :("
"this needs to be put back."
"please remove this badly thought out scanning delay. and make it so the dev who came up with this idea, is only allowed to use his eyes once every 2 seconds."
"signed"
"signed"
"wow.. your an idiot"
"yea."
"signed"
"signed"
"/signed"
"remove the delay, and while at it - remove the ship boarding/unboarding delay aswell."
"i never said you were, but i sure know they are pirates in here crying...and just to know that brings joy to me mwuihahahahyes there are, there are guns. but you need the directional scanner in order to find people to use them. if you seriously think using probes are a viable mechanic to find someone in a belt then you clearly have never tried.sure, theres the probe but if your there to hunt in ab, just put a bm near a load of ab nearby, that will allow you to remove you off his scanner if he uses it directly on the a gate . if he doesn't flee you will probably be able to find him after a certain time. remember that both you and him are penalyzed by this so if he just scanned the gate or the system near him he wont be able to do so for the next 2 secs.tl/dr version: if your hunting or roaming in low sec or a somewhat populated system, no change imo (i said imo remember). but if your trying to find someone really quickly ..your busted lol."
"never thought scanning could be so frustrating signed"
"delays to scanning hurts small gang pvp and makes skirmishers/scouts slower to find targets (who will begin to bug out as soon as local changes).nerf people sitting at a safespot mashing the scan button if you want, but people in warp or changing scan angle to check celestials need to be able to get a new scan result faster..."
"/signed"
"idiotic change"
"signed"
"definately revert this!yet another ill conceived change that they think we should live with."
"lets go back to old scanner rules"
"signed."
"signed. please remove delay."
"signed. that new feature screws my efficiency pretty well. please remove."
"signing this."
"notify the scanner is recalibrating, please wait a secondhhmm, it says wait a second.. i do this but i constantly get screwed...maybe it should say \" wait 4 days while your target gets away \" :)"
"signeddelay needs to be much lower. at a first approximation, 0.1 seconds between scans or less.the directional scanner has always been an incredibly important defensive and offensive tool but this modification, while well-intentioned, has reduced its utility by several orders of magnitude.-o"
"je suis d'accord avec ce que la premi<U+FFFD>re personne dit."
"you really have never left highsec have you...finding people really slowly is not my idea of acceptable in any 0.0 system. the only systems you would ever be able to stay under the local radar long enough are heavily populated outpost systems (and thats only if you name happens to start with g-q). in any 'normal' population 0.0 system you have no chance at all simply because you pop up in the big warning window that is local chat as soon as you enter."
"/signed"
"reduce the delay, remove the warning message. balance the delay between server side balance and skirmishers being able to skirmish effectively."
"do like lots of other poeple do, use a heavy inty or a sling shot then... and overpopulate the systems gate so he wont get away. if our alone, use the heavy inty yourself or just be lucky at the first scan mwuahaahahah. believe me, just adapt, its possible to do that. im sure some wise guy out there as already figured a way out of this loophole."
"fix it please"
"/signed"
"worst change since removing the cyno in effect"
"adapt or die"
"eeee another fail ccp :dgive me scam scanner back !!!!"
"stop whining and l2p or gb2wowhooray for less server lag... maybe next patch they will increase the delay to 30 secs"
"good grief... stop making so much sense ffs. lmao** i was sarcatic....just in case you wondered...but i think its obvious lol"
"signed"
"signed, it sucks now.decrease the time again or increase the max scan range. problem solved."
"*agree*"
"get rid of this stupid timer"
"/signed"
"catching people using the scanner requires enough time as it is. being unable to get a clear picture of what is in system quickly is also detrimental to covert ops and interceptor scouts. a very heavy-handed change."
"this change sucks! undo!"
"your 'adaption' is \"be lucky\"? please stop talking about things you have no idea about. ratters don't warp to gates, they warp to safes."
"were still being ignored by ccp eh? surprise."
"/signedccp fails... again"
"this thread needs more highsec mission runners expressing their well valued opinions.here's an idea, get rid of highsec lvl 4 missions. it probably wont fix lag but at least then some people might leave motsu and actually play the game."
"signed wish some ccp would actually play the game to properly understand why we need these things."
"knowing ccp, it's pointless for us to try convince them. our only hope is that csm people take this issue seriously and actively push ccp. only they can make a difference."
"supporting this."
"gets my vote"
"i support this."
"/signedmake it eve style, it should be skill based(trade group, each skill level adds 1 wallet division). second, add reference possibility to personal/corp buy/sell orders. it will make easier to track isk flow. or direct them to any of your personal wallet division."
"supported."
"hell yea! store everything on server side."
"supporting, though without thousands of instas to keep straight it's much harder to get worked up over this issue."
"cool idea!!"
"/signed"
"here's my two cents...1. whatever method is used to remove abandoned poses, if the corporation does not fall under the system's sovereignty, then the pos can be flagged as \"fair game\". this way, people who hold sovereignty can keep offline poses as they want them, such as alliances that have a few poses still holding sovereignty in a system, and maybe some are offline and online. those who don't have sovereignty in the given space (e.g., low-sec, hi-sec, wh-space, or don't hold it at all) can be flagged as \"fair game\".2. if this will involve some sort of hacking skill, make it require anchoring 5. something of this level does involve a fair bit of assets at play.3. poses that are flagged as \"fair game\" need a time period after the pos goes offline. this could be as long as 30 days, but who knows.4. whatever the timer is for poses, it has to start after the pos goes offline, regardless of external conditions. once the timer has exceeded, if sovereignty is still up then the pos cannot be flagged. however, the moment sovereignty drops, then the pos can be flagged immediately.5. if the owning corporation comes and even just configures it, then the time period is reset. if a corporation bothers to come and do this, then the pos isn't abandoned to begin with.p.s. if an alliance in 0.0 needs a pos removed asap, use current mechanics as needed."
"this^^"
"first it's an exploit, then it's not... nice"
"supported!we had this happen to us and it was pointless to try again after they re-joined the alliance as they had removed all their industrial mods and just fitted it out a lot more defensibly. i also feel its not fair to single corps out there who are war dec'd and don't get this second chance those in alliances do.we are a corp so its even worse that we have to do a 24 hour vote before even getting to start the 24 hours period."
"please fix this."
"i fully support this.the existing mechanics can easily be exploited to save poses that otherwise would legitimately die, and can be exploited ad nauseum.if a corporation leaves an alliance, any wardecs should stay with them for the full remainder of the week's wardec. if a corporation joins an alliance, then that alliance should be at war for the remainder of the week. the latter option still gives a large boost of defensive capabilities to the decced corp in question, but at least provides the declaring corp with the ability to continue their campaign against their original target.surely concord would want to see the spirit of the yulai convention upheld, would they not?"
"support. clarify either whether it is an exploit (which i hope it to be found to be) or not an exploit, and then alter game mechanics such that you can warm up on any corp in an alliance and not just the alliance itself. when the they drop the alliance, you should then be able to dec on the corp. however, this is not currently possible because it is impossible to warm up a war declaration on an corp in an alliance, which is all shades of bull****, really. with all of that \"and fixed exploits that made eve a better game for all\" that inevitably comes out every time a patch comes out one would hope something as easily fixable as this \"exploit\" would make the list."
"fully support this!moreover i would say that the extra wardec on the corp(s) leaving the alliance should not count to the active wardec count which is both relevant for wardec fees on additional decs as well as for the three wardec limit for corporations.e.g. atm if you dec an alliance as a corp and two corps leave the alliance your three wardec slots are effectively filled because of that adding injustice to insult pretty much"
"fixes for this have been proposed for years and ccp avoids them, allowing exploiters to continue their exploits without repercussion.war declarations should flag all members of the corp/alliance declared upon. jumping alliance should not be a defacto escape clause, the war flag should maintain through the current war cycle and expire only when that period ends. likewise jumping corp should not be an individual's escape clause... they (and they alone) should be flagged for that current war period.end of story.mechanics should be put in place that enables an individual/corp/alliance to avoid or terminate a war prior to the cycle end... the current contract system is perfectly suited to that use."
"1.0"
"supported because this is an exploit that ccp should fix asap."
"i support this proposal"
"voting in support of something ccp knows about and should have fixed a long time ago."
"supported."
"supported"
"signed this has happened all to often and the fact it still it allowed to happen due to the game mechanics i'm sure a solution should be in place already."
"supportedi love when ccp is aware of a loophole, implements a policy against exploiting it, then changes their mind without telling anyone and without fixing the loophole. consistency was never ccp's strong point tbh."
"not much else needed to be said, supported."
"signed"
"i agree, actual supercaps must be revised. i also agree with the idea to add more types of caps/supercaps like olympians. that's my proposal:titans:_ there can be only 2 titans in a system at the same time. _ 30% dd damage reduction._ increase to 10km jump portal range._ increase x3 titan hp.motherships:_ increase drastically the ship maintenance, corp hangar, fuel and drone bay._ subcap gang members can repair for free near the ms, when they aren't aggroed._ increase x2 ms hp._ no limit on people using fitting service at the same time.new carriers/dreads tier2:_ double cost, but better bonuses.new cap -> capital interdictor_ few cap weapons and drone bay_ they have a 150km bubble module_ in reinforced mode, they can be used as a cynojammer"
"seriously? just stick with the game plan man."
"i had one bugged gun battery on my pos that i could not unanchor because it showed a crystal with 0 charges that i could not remove, clearly a bug. what to do? partition gm's to fix it. gm's fixed the gun by removing the charge for me, sweet not problem i can finally unanchor this gun battery and reanchor it where i want it. this took almost to a week and a half for the gm's to get round to fixing. problem? in order to to fix the problem gun battery, the gm's emptied every single crystal storage bay on my all gun batteries. the gm's of course did not put the crystals back, they did not even put them in the hanger array on the pos, they did not even tell me they had taken all my crystals!!! the gm's are saying that they are unable to put the crystals back in the storage bays (policy). the gm's say they can not give them back to me, the logs do not show that i placed the crystals in the batteries. they say they can only give them to the corp ceo, who is seldom online. so far this has taken 5-6 weeks to get to this point and i still don't have my crystals back.4 days ago, i asked for a senior gm to resolve this. i got another low level gm who i had to explain everything to. today he finally asked me if i would like to take this further and have a senior gm look into it, duh, thats what i asked for 4 days ago. these guys don't know what they are doing and they do not read the partitions. there seems to be no guide or real rules for them to follow.it is crap that a bug fix disadvange a player. i've lost a lot of crystals and my pos has been left in a weakened state due to no ammo reserve's. ccp stole my crystals and will not put them back where they got them from. complete incompetence on the part of the gm's."
"even devswarm approves"
"i too hate people who get around forum bans by paying an extra $15 for another account."
"i'm sure you mean external address here. internal would be something like 10.1.1.x /24 or 192.168.0.x /24 (or even 8 or 16 bit masks). long story short, if you banned someone from their internal address you would essentially ban 90% of eve (besides, the internal is natted anyway therefore you could not detect it for the website).perhaps you mean their mac address? however mac addresses are not contained within the packet headers, therefore you could not detect the originating mac address from the website (again same problem as above).external would be a bit more practical but not much. if you ban the 32 bit address (a single ip address), then the person can simply reconnect to their isp and most likely get a new ip (since most do not use static). if you ban a subnet, as others have indicated before, you would end up banning multiple people from eve. ie, in the us a lot of people use comcast. baning comcast would then prevent a lot of users from playing.and really anyone can just use a proxy server to bypass this restriction.sorry, not supported. i like the idea, there is just not practial way to implement it though."
"better solution make it so you need to have 2 months of paided active game time (aka non-trail accounts) to post on most forum areas.leave this away from a set area for new players to ask questions and let them read the other areas.$40 and 2 month to spam and get banned sounds like fun."
"thats actually not a bad idea."
"the wording of the op is a bit off but yeah i agree that someone who has received a forum ban should not be able to create a similarly named alt for the purposes of forum posting. unfortunately ip addresses are mostly dynamic and mac address bans could be gotten around by spoofing the mac address or simply using another network adapter. there definately should be something in place to prevent \"obvious alt posts\" though."
"giving every minmatar bs a huge bonus and dont buff the projectiles might be the best solution. but there are alot of large weapon sized ships which need this buff. the t1 and the t2 battleships. if you give them all the same bonus it might be an ac/arty problem. you probably might overbuff one of those while taking the other to the right level. maybe its better to buff one system a bit and then give all minmatar bs a bonus.the other option there is: give every ship an different bonus to make minmatarbs versatile.the tempest could get a falloff and a bigger alpha bonus, the vargur would profit from an falloff bonus from tracking computer/enhancer and could get an 5% alpha per lvl bonus . the typhoon rofbonus could get changed to 7,5% and could get and mass reduction. the mael should change the boost amount to restistance and get an 5%-7,5% alpha per lvl bonus . the mael would profit from the target computer falloff bonus too and would probably be balanced."
"looks like they did a recent change to the csm wiki.. here is one of the relevant posts..however, i cannot tell how old it is, so we'll still need to push this.0101-05-0038 rebalancing large autocannonsthese issues are being looked into by fendahl and they do see some good points to investigate mostly centered on the clip size and rof leading to some imbalance between the variants and with performance against other turret types.so, the next question.. how do we get ahold of fendahl.."
"looks like its over an year old and likely declined. the didnt even bother to record the results.i dont think there are many minmatar player in the csm team still flying minmatar bs. i mean there arent many ingame player flying minmatar bs as well."
"out of curiosity, i decided to see what the hubub was about, and played around with the tempest in eft. in all of 5 minutes, i came up with the following setup: (note- this took me 5 minutes- imagine what i could come up with if i actually spent some time on it :d)[tempest, new setup 1]gyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates icorpii c-type adaptive nano platingdamage control iiinvulnerability field iilarge f-s9 regolith shield inductionlarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiwarp scrambler ii800mm repeating artillery ii, hail l800mm repeating artillery ii, hail l800mm repeating artillery ii, hail l800mm repeating artillery ii, hail l800mm repeating artillery ii, hail l800mm repeating artillery ii, hail lsiege missile launcher ii, mjolnir rage torpedosiege missile launcher ii, mjolnir rage torpedocore defence field extender icore defence field extender icore defence field extender iogre ii x2hammerhead ii x2hobgoblin ii x1131k ehp if you overload your invuls (which you should), 1204dps without overloading guns.compared to a standard dps megathron fit:[megathron, new setup 1]1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates i1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iimagnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iidamage control iimedium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800j5b phased prototype warp scrambler ifleeting propulsion inhibitor itarget painter iineutron blaster cannon ii, void lneutron blaster cannon ii, void lneutron blaster cannon ii, void lneutron blaster cannon ii, void lneutron blaster cannon ii, void lneutron blaster cannon ii, void lneutron blaster cannon ii, void lheavy nosferatu iitrimark armor pump itrimark armor pump itrimark armor pump iogre ii x5that puts out 1160dps without overloading, and have 120k ehp. so the stats are:tempest: || megathron:130k ehp || 120k ehp1204 dps || 1160 dps150m/s || 116m/syes- there are issues with the tempest having trouble maintaining range versus a mega which can tackle more effectively- but it does more dps with more tank. so remind me again- why is this buff needed?"
"i am lucky i never forgot to update my clone after i was podded, but i know hundreads of ppl who did, and lost several million sps so they couldnt use some ships anymore.please request to add a simple warning window (like the \"low sec security\" one) to warn people when they try to undock when you havent your clone updated.thanks"
"/support"
"/support"
"/support"
"agree"
"bump"
"signed"
"agree"
"/support"
"/support"
"/support"
"/agree"
"bump"
"support 100%"
"agree"
"/support"
"/support"
"/support"
"/support"
"/support"
"support"
"support"
"support"
"/signed"
"not supported.i wanna pod you, so you lose skillpoints."
"/signed"
"not sure undock is the right time for the warning - i'd make it a warning when you enqueue the skill, like there is for the 1.6 million limit right now. still, like the idea."
"agree"
"agree"
"support"
"/signed"
"/support"
"i support this aswell"
"my support is behind this aswell"
"ok guys thats 100% support for now.ccp i think its time to change this tysupportedthat can stop player playing the game as they see all there skill's going down the drain so its in ccp intrest to support this."
"no its pretty hilarious to find out someone has lost amarr bs v for the third time"
"/si"
"/support"
"/signed"
"this."
"not supported.if you forget to update your clone tough. if the station you end up in doesn't have cloning facilities or is now in enemy hands then you should have checked beforehand."
"/support"
"/support"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i don't think we need this. its part of the eve that you can loose isk/sps when you are not careful. so, i don't see any reason to give special message when you don't have clone up to date. though, maybe there should be this kind of message for people under certain amount of skillpoints, this way new players would remember to update their clones and older ones would have to learn to do it without any extra messages."
"i am proposing a policy to delete the name of any character that has not been used in two years. the primary purpose of this is that there are many awesome names for an that i have come up with that are all registered... but none seem to have been used in many years.take the character darth vader as one example. this character has been a member of state war academy for 6 years, 3 months, and 16 days. how many of you would be willing to bet 100m isk that that person hasn't even logged on in 6 years, 2 months, and 16 days? i bet a lot of you would. there are also many other space-related and other names that i have come up with, all being members of newbie corps for many years, and i bet maybe one of them is actually currently in use but just hasn't joined a corp.so i say we open up all these names that haven't been used in over two years and will probably never be signed into again. i don't think that we should delete the characters (just in case somebody plans on coming back and doesn't want to lose some absurd number of skill points that took them forever to acquire), but just force them to pick a new name if theirs has been claimed during their period of inactivity... if that is technically possible. what do you say?"
"or you could stop borrowing names from other sources and make up one of your own.it's not that hard really. just stick some damned letters together."
"what do you think i did to come up with this name?"
"i dunno.. used the name of some obscure venereal disease?jk. i do tend to use original or at least semi original names and still see them taken occasionally. that's the breaks, you get beaten to a name you really like and it annoys the stuff out of you, had it happen, felt the same, just had to move on."
"i do not support the recycling, or forced renaming, of old characters. you register a name, it's yours until they shut down the servers. it's good marketing, if nothing else."
"not supported."
"no.your name is your identity in eve.i have old friends that left more than 2 years ago. if they return to eve they can recontact me and i would be very happy to help them adjust to the changes.if a guy called nick2879 call me and say \"i am your old friend xxx, my name was deleted and i had to change it\" i will have a different reaction (especially if the character portrait was one of those not particularly noteworthy).then what wall happen to corp history?corp founded by xxx, now called yyy?"
"i find your lack of originality disturbing."
"names such as 'darth vader' (sic) are copyright and, as such, the devs in their relatively limited wisdom created those characters to never log in for the express purposes of preventing them from being used in ways not expected or condoned by the copyright holder.though yes, some names not holding rights and never being used should be removed... i hate having to weed through the 'close but not quite exact' copies of some names (big lottery, for examp) to get the right individual."
"no.people can always return and continue. unless you refund them all the money for skills and training time no.if someone was faster than you be creative and find another cool name."
"not supported. especially in eve, where one can have a rep, even after years."
"actually, if someone is an impersonator, you can petition to get them renamed. just fyi."
"especially if they are actively trading off that impersonation, such as the chribba impersonators that pop up from time to time."
"people do come back after 2 years or even longer.if this was to be considered i'd say limit it to characters that have never left the trial period and who have less than (say) 5m isk in assets on their account, because anyone returning after that length of time with no skillpoints or money to their name is more likely to roll a new character than pick up the old one anyway."
"open your mind and don't pick any of the obvious character names from films and such.people do return after very long breaks so no, this is a bad idea."
"ok its a well known tactic - bumping.however its crazy that ships dont attain any damage. sorry but if a frigate rams a battleship its likely to have quite a bit of damage.so what can we do...firstly have a specific ramming ship only for each skill.each skill level determines hull damage say something on the same level as the tactical shield manipulation skill where level 5 you recieve no hull damage.for standard ships if you ram anything you get a percentage hull damage proportionate to the size of ship you are bumping. for example if a frig bumped a bs then its fair to say that should get 75-100% hull damage, but if a bs rammed a frig then it would get say only 25% you get my drift.its just too easy to use bumping as a tactic and not get any penalty"
"i heard they did used to take damage a loooooooonnnnggg time ago but then people apaently just set up like frig fleets and rammed things to death,specific ramming ship? seems a bit pointless tbhbumping isnt realy an exploirt or anything, its just good use of game mechanics,so bumping is good as it is, :p"
"not saying theres a problem with bumping just there should be a penalty to it.well i think there is a point to have a specific ship, its like saying why have a ewar ship when you can add mods to other ships, or why have industrial ships when you have cargo expanders etc..."
"the utter pain of implementing this would be too high, and the benefits too low. movement in eve isn't precise enough to do this properly."
"as much as i would love to have the hac's that bumped my mastodon to death explode from impact damage (nice job you two, but i still hope you die - in game of course), you open the door to a lot of other issues, especially since, as hersch notes, movement in eve is very imprecise.what happens when my wtz overshoots and i end up bouncing off a stargate? i'm not keen on the idea of my frigate going 'pop' because i suddenly encoutered an immovable object."
"keh of course it is its called collision detection. how do you think missiles, guns blah blah work? its already there, the system already knows that you are bumping something, you just add damage to that.with respect in the scheme of things its not rocket science.there isnt a benefit directly its just mental that a ship can ram any ship and not get any damage, sorry but its just not right lol."
"ok fair point well remove the clipping then ::) job done. so you dont bounce off anything"
"the (accidental if not intentional) carnage that would result at the jita 4-4 undock would be a) hilarious and b) cause to immediately revoke this."
"yes... i can see it now.. new ramming ship undocks and get's concord'd for hitting a freighter on the way out.not very bright op... not bright at all."
"no, dont you dare say that. i want to see the carnage in jita 4-4 lol. i will personally record this and laugh...and probably die of laughing too lol"
"not possible tbh because its internet you'll start getting blobs that cause that mutch lag that you won't know if you popped bumping or some one shot ya etc... plus ping becomes a issue.bumping is also a nice tactic, iv'e been bumped and iv'e bumped others too (it can be a nightmare if its un expected at a station with a huge kick out)."
"here's a genius idea; you can fit a bunch of small smartbombs, and it will feel like you're ramming somebody because you have to get so close to do any damage."
"or lets just think about undocking 50-60ships from a station at once.by the the time they would be scattered normally they would all be in their pods as the ships scrubbed each other to death :d"
"raised too many times by too many people to be ignored. for the love of all things exploding please fix!"
"i'd maybe support this under 2 conditions:1) killmail is generated empty, i.e. no fittings shown2) self-destruct timer removed completely, i.e. instant self-destruct"
"1.0"
"agreed"
"the broken mechanic is self destructing, not the lack of the killmail ... not signed."
"it should be a finished off killmail like in tf2"
"please ccp give the people who work hard at obtaining kills something for their efforts."
"i'm not sure if this has been covered or not, i looked, but didn't see it.it is my understanding that t2 indys were to play certain roles, but why do they not have 2 high slots?thats it really, i think having 2 hi slots on a crane or bustard would be great. they don't even have to be weapon slots.-skan*waits for the flames, but hopes for a real answer*"
"you lack to explain why you need two slots."
"i think maybe the real question is why is the prowler the only one that does (at least from what i can see, it is)."
"shhhhh. if you get my prowlers nerfed ill make it my personal mission in eve to hunt you down and pod you every chance i get."
"shh, i fly one too. so i don't want this either. the prowler is not the ship you are looking for."
"de's correct... the only transport ship in the game that has 2 high slots is in fact the prowler (minmatar vaiant - blockade runner/cov ops)all others have 1.why? don't know.. except for the fact that the prowler is a bit short on med's and lows in comparison to others.i tend to slap a tractor on it... but in all honesty... its not needed... and usually only has a cov ops cloak on it.the only thing its good for is to run like hell and survive without getting shot down... other than the obvious industrial stuff.<--- prowler pilot"
"not supported. i like getting money for being blown up."
"no. pvp is expensive enough as it is without grinding level 4 missions for hours to get popped by your local blob."
"so, what does that leave?shuttles and freighters.mining barge and exhumers.anything else?"
"supported. anyone who doesn't want it is a carebear or just sucks at pvp and loses tons of ships. fail more."
"its about time for the horrible, old and outdated insurance system to go."
"carebears don't lose ships that often, so your proposition that people who don't want this change are carebears is wrong. more pvpers would be against this.pretty much anybody who pvp's alot, and doesn't ***** pvp behind their blob should be losing alot of ships so i don't understand your argument."
"more people would be willing to pay ransom for a ship (if pirates aren't too stupid never honoring ransom) and so it would help low sec pvp.i thin that is the position of bellum."
"ok so after seeing the eve wiki post on jita speaker corner here"
"post:the csm concept was revived about 14 months ago by now. it has been a bumpy ride, but does it deliver? and if not, how does one fix that? heres my take on it:when csm1 took first took office, it was dropped into the position with very little help from ccp: we had to make up all our procedures on our own and we had a fair fight, trying to justify our existence and requests for resources from ccp departments(a private forum, email system, a wiki). one might call it a social experiment. and i think its quite fair to call it that.the csm was tasked to structure itself beyond a simple distribution of roles given by ccp. this has the inherent feature of creating an organic organization. however given the lack of challenges it faces, its not going to get \"pushed\" into a stronger state. its like survival of the fittest, without any sort of threats to species existence: the specie will survive but not evolve into the ideal shape.so before i draw any conclusions based on this, i want to put the csm into the larger scheme of things when it comes to communication inside a community?if we look back at my earlier blog posts, i have discussed how a successful way of keeping customers happy is all about communication. some people did note that i maybe was a bit \"harsh\". and i think thats fair to say. however i think that its more the case of the ideas and conclusions being put forward were very idealistic and slightly over-drawn in order to make a point.once again, im going to take basis in the idea that communication(\"feedback\") is a desirable thing to have. how might one apply this to the csm?the csm is a democratically elected body of players. already there, theres the idea of an election where people vote, and players are elected. theres a feedback loop which is \"solid\". people can go and check who got the most votes and see some sort of progress based on their interaction. however after that, the csm sort of becomes a black-box operation.its not that its impossible to find out what the csm is up to. however the time and effort required getting a sense of progress being made by the csm is extremely high. this means that people are going to lose faith in the csm very quickly. it means that theres no incentive to go and take active part in the community around the csm. it means that the csm is going to become irrelevant to the masses.how could the csm be made relevant? its all about having a feedback loop that gives people a sense of control and influence. this creates a sense of communication, which is critical.right now, the csm is stuck to a patched part of the eve-online forum where people can give an issue-thread a thumbs up. and this is hardly desirable due to1. the fact that only a small part of the community takes part in the forum:2. its prone to alt-spamming3. theres no way of getting a feedback loop going.the problem isnt directly technological, as much as its about managing the lifetime of a csm issue. that means that all the way from when its first raised by a member of the community, till its taken care of by ccp, it needs to be transparent what the issue is about, what has been done and what is being done about the issue.right now, the issue starts out at the forum, is taken into a wiki format and then passed onto ccp. from that, minutes are created and placed on the wiki, separate from the issue.this is a major problem. and quite frankly, its a technological problem more than anything else."
"how to fix it:in essence, things need to be well-integrated. the wiki-system isnt really a bad system; however its currently a half-assed solution that doesnt do much more than simply providing a way of storing and tracking changes to a document.heres i suggest is done:a system is created that allows for submission of issues that adheres to standardized templates. it could be a wiki-like system that contains:voting(up and down)discussionpublic editing is allowed until the issue is marked as being under discussion by the csm(done when the issue is voted on by the csm). the csm members could have to accept changes. (optional)progress trackingprioritization by both the csm and the public on a 2-month basis.this raises the barrier to entry a bit. however this could be fixed by creating a staged system where an assembly-hall-like forum is kept in place. this ought to be the place where rough issues are raised and the community is encouraged to create issues in accordance to the template, and then submitted it to the system.the result of a system like this would be that a portal is created that allows for easy access to all relevant information about the csm and allows for easy feedback.votingright now, the public voting aspect is rather much of a farce. as pointed out earlier, its kind of a slapped-on thing.allowing for voting by both the public and the csm on a per-account basis creates a metric that can be used in the overall scheme of things when it comes to raising the issue to ccp. ill talk about that again.discussionwe already have a system that sort-of allows for discussion. however its currently not very useful due to the fact you are required to post in the thread to throw a thumbs-up. while having to post could be argued as a barrier to entry for voting for an issue, but theres not any other requirement for the post, allowing for empty posts making it impossible to discuss anything.progress trackingone of the major things i hear from people when i discuss the csm with them, is that once the issue has been posted to the forum, its hard to find out what happened to it. first of all you have to figure out what meeting it might have been raised in, find the minutes and then find the csm-ccp meeting minutes.a very simple system could be put in place to allow for keeping records of all aspects of the lifetime of an issue. that includes the raw meeting logs from the csm meeting, the voting result and finally the meeting minutes from the ccp-csm meeting.all this information ought to be contained inside the issue page itself. one might even suggest that if there are relevant patch-notes, these could be tagged despite ccps previous stance on attributing patch-notes with a csm tag. but if they dont want to do it, i guess the csm will have to do it.prioritizationone of the crucial aspects of the csm issue-raising is the prioritization of the issues. thus far, it has been done by each csm member at the end of a 2-month cycle, give each issue a value between 1 and n(n being the amount of issues).one of the main purposes of the csm, as far as im aware, is to get ccp a sense of what is most important to the community. hence, we ought to extend the prioritization job to also include the public.going by the same rules, 1 to n for each issue, players should be able to give their opinion of which of the raised csm issues are the most important to them.this gives a better sample of what the community wants. and its virtually free in terms of time, as its a voluntary thing which people can do."
"how does this all fit together?so now that i have explained what kind of tools ought to be available for the csm, you are probably wondering how it fits into the grand scheme of things?as established in earlier posts, communication is extremely important. right now the csms largest problem is that theres no sort of feedback loop. its a black box where people put up issues and give a thumbs-up, and if they are lucky, the might even know if an issue was raised. after that, the communication stops and issues do not evolve beyond being a document in a wiki system.by allowing for more consistent voting on issues as well as public prioritization, you give people a sense of having influence and control. they can see that their action makes a difference, and thats crucial.however as times goes by, having once put in a vote doesnt make much of a difference. thats where progress tracking comes into the picture. by making progress information easily accessible, you get another feedback loop(assuming that theres actual progress).this way, the csm becomes another viable mean of communication between the player-base and ccp.conclusionthe csm suffers from not being pushed to becoming more than it is, and is seemingly not given the much-needed development time in order to give it the tools it needs. in order to the csm to evolve and not stagnate, progress has to be made and tools have to be provided for pushing the boundaries of whats possible with a player-elected democracy."
"ye have me thumb sir.o7/supported"
"this has only ever happened to me once that i recall, but it's still once too often./ben"
"not supported"
"1.0"
"if you know your internet connection has regular hiccups, why are you pvping then?if you know your internet connection has regular hiccups, do you really think it's a good idea to fly an expensive ship into dangerous space?and how often do you really have a hiccup when you're actually in a fight and not docked/safespotted/afk?in other words - keeping this loophole just so that 0.01% of the playerbase only lose a ship in 1 out of 100 cases instead of 2 out of 100 cases, while this loophole is deliberately abused to minimize losses/risk isn't really desirable, isn't it?therefore - supported"
"1.0"
"/signed"
"signed"
"the good of the many (people who've been logoffskied on) must outweigh the good of the few (people with crappy connections trying to pvp)."
"you can not ban by ip address.several reasons....when ip addresses were handed out the us dodgied their numbers and were over-allocated.meaning that us users often get their own ip for an internet session. in other countries it can be a paperwork nightmare and ips have to be approved for various different purposes, meaning that websites and internet users often have to share ips as there just aren't enough for the country.then you have the topology of certain companies and countries.aol forces users onto proxy servers so that most of their hits come from a few ips.saudi-arabia and china have firewalls that expose only a few ip address.you can't ban by ip, it can't work like that."
"sounds good"
"coolstorybro.jpg"
"the solution is unworkable, but the principle is sound./ben"
"this is a horrible idea."
"aren't you posting with this alt because your main has a forum ban?"
"no"
"current situation: if you double-click in space, you start flying in that direction.proposed change: let us change what command does this(e.g., alt-click instead). benefits: people will stop randomly flying off into space just because they misclicked a couple times trying to select something. drawbacks: slight interface clutter in esc menu."
"this isn't broken. leave it be. alt+click already has a function, is changes the camera angle.not signed."
"alt-click was an example. ctrl-alt-click, if alt-click is taken(though personally, given how useless a shortcut to just zoom in is, i'd personally customize away the alt-click function in favour of moving in a direction). my goal is the ability to customize, not any particular input scheme. i just want people to stop randomly flying around without meaning to."
"although i'm trying to break this habit, i tend to pan my camera around a lot more than i really need to just to see what's up around me... and i find that even though i'm supposed to be orbiting this one target at 5000m, i somehow end up over 10km away because my ship started flying off in some random direction.why do we have to double-click at all to move our ships? why can't we pilot manually or something if we want to move to an unmarked point in space rather than clicking on some arbitrary point in space with no direction of depth and hoping you go the right way?signed."
"i use alt+click a lot to quickly change camera angles in a pinch. it's far from useless. i have never had a problem with double-clicking either. maybe it's just me.i'm all for allowing more customization, but it's such a minor cosmetic change. most people use overview to select anyways, since no fc will shout a command like: select the dude 4 o'clock from my ship, as it is all relative in space. the only people really benefiting from this change would be someone with benign fasciculation syndrome."
"or someone who clicks in space a lot. judging by my own experiences, and those of people i fly with, it's a pretty common problem. also, at risk of derailing my own thread, how does this alt-click thing work? i'm testing it, and it seems that alt-click-and-drag works exactly like click-and-drag, and alt-click with no drag is a maximal zoom-in. i can't find any other function. you do know that you don't need to hold alt to change camera angles, right?"
"alt+click? wth?at least make it mappable.. those who want it.. can have it.. those who don't.. then don't.supported."
"support"
"yes, please."
"yes"
"i support this but while your at it. can we have a viewing option. those rows for each item is like 1 inch...can we make a simpler smaller view please."
"/signed"
"this^^. or, if that's not an option, maybe allow us to create lp favorites list from which we can select purchasing so as to not have to deal with the idiotic reset to the top issue."
"1.0"
"was under the impression this was temporary while they revised them due to recent changes but if not then most definitely supported."
"this could be possible, i looked over the patch notes and could not find an entry for removing/changing npc corporation descriptions.its also possible that it was a mistake to remove this information in the first place in which case it would be nice if not a little over optimistic to have ccp comment over changes to thisthanks for the feedback/support everyoneout of curiosity would you be for, or against removal of npc corporations? hehe"
"they should implement video-descriptions, with animated portraits of the npc corporation leaders and the complete history of the corporation."
"fw lp store got a nice little boost with apoc 1.5. any chance that low sec lp stores can get a little boost as well? would a csm be willing to discuss this with ccp? if anyone would like to add on what to add or change in order to improve the lp store feel free to share. flame. discuss. whatever."
"damn, the op is hot. he also seems legit. he's got my vote."
"support"
"support"
"my main problem with this idea is that it will cause more smack talk and hate mail toward me. i already get enoughif people were a little more mature, this wouldn't be a problem."
"emo much? i support the fueling of e-peen waving basement dwellers."
"anybody who doesn't support this shouldn't support killmails existing at all.well, feel free to not ****ing look at it, you idiot."
"i support ego boosting for killing pods."
"i think that people that want to do pvp just for fun of it dont care about killboard. and carebears don't care about them either. so only people that do care about killboards are people that like to swing their epeen around. that said there is no harm for showing lost implants on killboard, so i think this would be good thing."
"yes"
"this wouldnt affect budding industrialists as much as some of you seem to think, many of them start out using bpcs off of the contracts, and dont need the research slots right away. this would free up npc research slots a bit so ppl can start research jobs much sooner than they may have been able to, otherwise. as i can always find plenty of manufacturing slots with little or no wait, this probably wouldnt affect new builders much at all. a possible positive secondary effect of this would be to spread players out a bit as they look for available slots without a high price due to demand for them. especially if they are running missions in addition to manufacturing.. \"well, this new agent isnt quite as good as the one in that hub, but i save more in my manufacturing slots than i lose in agent rewards.\""
"as someone using 60+ slots at a time... i agree... but by the gods make the manuf/research interface better!!!move pos cargo to a single static storage area (hangar/tower) and have associated manufacturing locations take from that stockpile. managing materials is a bloody nightmare!!!"
"i am proposing that ccp let me balance cosmos modules as a volunteer since i really don't have anything else to do with my time. all in favor?"
"while your at it.. let me balance concord reaction times and the sale taxes and...."
"what's wrong with cosmos modules?"
"you know how the big alliances can easily just grow and grow in nulsec taking swaths of systems, pushing little guys out?how about making it harder to expand past your capital so there is a tougher limit on how large a player empire can grow?this will make it easier for smaller aliances to hold space though they may not be able to build up an empire."
"nevermind my suggestions, i just found out about dust 514 and it sounds far better than what i was thinking lol."
"i concur"
"uhuh"
"remember the preferred order of events in this situation is:1. think.2. post.please try again."
"now i know that just about everyone gets ****ed off one way or the other when they want to move to a new location, but due to you having ships that are rigged, most often it involves you piloting each ship individually to the new location. and for most of us, this isn't feasible or practical due to it either being time consuming or just annoying as hell (ie i had to move 16 rigged ships over 864 jumps total, took way too long). now a simple solution i would thing is some type of modified station container that can hold 600,000 m3, since no single battleship exceeds that amount in volume. second option is a new type of freighter designed specifically to move assembled ships, and maybe a jump freighter equivalent for it as well. specifications might be something like this maybe:halcyon classrole: transport freighteras the capsuleer population grew with time, so did the need to move their ships increase with the passing of time as well. the halcyon stands out as a behemoth even amongst freighters due to its cavernous maintenance bay designed to accommodate fully assembled ships that are unable to be repackaged due to ship modifications.caldari freightor bonus: 5% bonus to shield hitpoints and resistances per level.transport freighter bonus: 5% bonus to ship maintenance bay capacity per level.fittingpowergrid output: 1 mw cpu output: 1 tf launcher hardpoints: 0 turret hardpoints: 0 structuremax velocity: 62 m/sec inertia modifier: 0.0631plasma propulsion strength: 6 points mass: 1,367,000,000 kg volume: 24,956,000 m3capacity: 7500 m3capacitorrecharge time: 264.36 sec capacitor capacity: 3950 energy targetinggravimetric sensor strength: 98 pointssignature radius: 4.37 km shieldshield capacity: 7800 hpshield em damage resistance: 0 % shield explosive damage resistance: 53 % shield kinetic damage resistance: 41 %shield thermal damage resistance: 20 %shield recharge time: 1,900.00 secarmorarmor hitpoints: 19,700 hp armor em damage resistance: 49%armor explosive damage resistance: 12%armor kinetic damage resistance: 29 %armor thermal damage resistance: 51 %miscellaneousship maintenance bay capacity: 1,700,000 m3 required skills:primary skill requiredfreighter transport i advanced spaceship command iv spaceship command v secondary skill requiredcaldari freighter iv advanced spaceship command i spaceship command v caldari industrial v spaceship command iii caldari frigate iii spaceship command ino doubt this idea has popped up before, but considering how many people do have this inconvenience, i am surprised by the lack of support for it to be resolved. dunno what all of you will think, but some feedback would be good to hear."
"unsupported.moving of rigged unpacked battleships should not be aloud except in massive ships like titans (so that would mean no empire).i want my wt's moving the nice expesive faction fitted pve ships thank you.although i can see your piont if you have a large fleet. iv'e had to do it once or twice"
"now that we have special bays..well the introduction or the beginning of it. perhaps it could be possible usings rigs or so. i think i heard this from a dev somewhere ?that whay you just introduce a rig which allows you to fit only rigged ships only. it would simplify the coding for sure."
"or there is always this concept: have it to where all freighters have 1 rig slot that only accepts 2 types of rigs. rig 1 allows the freighter to have a regular cargo bay. rig 2 converts the regular cargobay into a maintenance bay, maybe with a bonus of 120% room vs a normal cargobay to compensate for the larger volume of the assembled ships. this would make it easier for ccp as they wouldnt have to design new ships from scratch, though i love new ships. this would also reduce training times."
"how many battleships would this allow you to move at a time? doing math based on your initial design above, at max skills, that lets you move roughly 4 maelstroms. however, having that skill at level 1 allows you to move the same number, so you have no real incentive to train the skill past level 1.i'd suggest something like a base number of 500,000 + 7.5% per level of racial freighter + 10% per level of freighter transport.this give you a total value, at max skills, of a bit over oa million m3. that's enough to carry 2 battleships and a few smaller vessels, or 3-4 battlecruisers, or a pack of smaller ships. but at first level, it's not that useful for transporting battleships because you can only carry one, and at that point, you may as well fly it.in other words, in forces people to invest in the skill if they really want the benefits of it.as for the it makes it too easy crowd, seriously - could you imagine the gank blobs these things would engender? people would go out of their way to find them.at any rate, i think the numbers need tweaking, but i like the idea."
"not supported... we do not need yet an another ship.just allowed rigged ships to be transported in freighters... and only allow offloading to take place at stations/corp hangers/ship assembly arrays and such.problem solved."
"i'd be just as happy with this idea, tbh."
"pretty much this."
"it's very annoying to open each time agent's info to find out the distance from your current location. or may be you can add filter setting to show agents in current constellation."
"a workaround/partial solution is to open the map, and right-klick on the agent \"set destination\".no need to open the info, but still bothersome."
"similarly, you can show info on agent location, show info on the system that station is in, and then look at the route. this would be a pretty minor fix, but still, i wouldn't mind it being simpler."
"/signed"
"drake d. the problem with jet canning is that the can is very vulnerable to attack. here's your cap boosters and ammo...oops, enemy poofed it. not very practical."
"darius m. a very interesting idea. i would be ok with transforming industrial and transport ship cargo bays into corp hanger bays. or even a new class of ship that did the same."
"drake d. you never had a jet can near a mercoxit cloud have you? =-)"
"thats exactly the point. if the \"can\" is an orca, a carrier or some transport ship. they all can be shot. they all die relatively fast if the opposing site has enough dps.if you want the luxury of a corp hangar you have to bite the bullet and bring the carrier or an orca! if you dont want that risk. you have to risk the jetcan.risk vs reward."
"no. we got that already. it is called orca. only capital ships got an corp hangar and i think it should be like that. otherwise we will see that \"dropping cap booster with alt\" thing more often."
"never hear of common sense to \"click\" the edit button?"
"thanks, fixed it."
"so what's wrong with having some middle ground. it would follow the same concept. industrials and transport ships are still pretty vulnerable to attack and with rigs can get pretty spendy(risk.) and they have less cargo space, so the reward would be less, in proper proportion to the other ships you mentioned."
"just to clarify. i am not talking about frieghters. i am referring to industrial ships ie. iteron mark v, and transport ships ie. occator."
"this could be avoided, if the new command is implemented appropiately. let's say this command reads \"reconnect and recover drones\". this means, if you give this command, all lost drones automatically return to your drone bay. this requires that are in a ship with sufficient bandwidth and drone bay. you need to wait until they are all in your drone bay, before you can give them new commands. but this won't work for sentries, if they are to far away.using a tractor beam with lost drones would be nice anyway.i'd also like to see a final fix, that you loose control of drones that are on the way back to your drone bay. seems to me this happens mostly if they are under fire. they float in space without control and must be recovered manually."
"too many people/isk behind keeping the current system in place, but why not shake things up some more."
"not particularly bright, are you?while i'm copying the bpo (which takes 2 to 3 times *longer* than it takes to produce a manufactured good) i'm not manufacturing with it... in other words, it cuts my production on that bpo by over 60% when i finally do start producing all of those bpcs.and t1 bpos (for the most part) copy at considerably faster than the time required to produce with one, and you can purchase multiple originals.so, my argument stands.t2 bpos are not isk prints like they once were. some are still up there, but nothing like they once were. by the large the margins, due to invention, have come down massively. only the broken moon minerals mechanic is keeping them inflated (and even so meta-4 items are now often far more expensive than t2)."
"how about rather than having it on the killmail for a pod, you need to scoop and show info on the popsicle before you can tell what implants it had?"
"where are the weekly meetings ??-cj"
"we haven't had any for a couple of weeks as we had a 2week limit to send issues to ccp for our meeting in iceland"
"ah ha. coolis there a full list on the wiki of what topics were send in?-cj"
"the following 65 issues have been submitted to ccp:"
"i should like to wish the csm an enjoyable trip to iceland and thank them for the time they have invested; and indeed the time they will be investing given the huge numbers of issues likely to be on the agenda."
"i too wish them a most productive time. i hope the presence of sunlight, which the csm ii was never confronted with will not diminish their most shiny excellence!please leave some nonnis for the fan fest! :-)issler"
"lark, i can see by your posting, that you've taken the whole thing seriously.i shall vote the same way, again next year."
"i would join large screen camp and vote for an increase of font. i have got 120-140dpi notebook 17\" screen. native res is 1920x1200. i must play 1024x768, otherwise i would go blind soon.i have contacted guys through petition, but been told to go in dev forum.i hope more people join this petition and developers will do anything with that. time passes by and everybody has got cheap 19\" + lcd. it will not last long and there will be standart 22\" + screens.basically, this game is unplayable @ resolution higher than 1280x1024 (12 size wide font and large screen)."
"yes, please, more font size choice. we get choice of 10,12 and..... squeeze a 14 in there!"
"/signed"
"signed!pls ccp bring back the old cyno effect!!!"
"yes!!! better cyno tunnel of death... more shiny, more explosions.. just get that loser michael bay to do it, he cant make a movie that doesnt suck but i bet he could make a cyno look good."
"as someone who has posted about destroyers b4, and coming up with much of the view of the problems and possible fixes of dessies : 2 thumbs up."
"cheers! go rockets!"
"doesn't hurt to let ccp know how it's cash-cow player base feels about how things currently stand though."
"like the idea, it's only a image, so not much work."
"i want green missiles because green is stronger!"
"i understand where the op is coming from really, its ok to implement this like on warp scrams, but when suggested for something else its dismissed as a silly idea :) if its different yeah just colour it different. one example i guess when mwd/ab as same name like cold gas etc..."
"he was just trying to make them easyer to find in the hanger.i can see his piont as at 1680x1050 on a 20\" lcd text in eve is hard as hell to read some times.setting apart the icons, make scanning you hanger alot easyer.then buy scourge."
"i think the people in disagreement want every icon for every item to be the exact same. right"
"bump.... for those who can't."
"ok, i would like as well."
"supported."
"can't hurt. would provide a bit more immersion imo."
"if it was broken before and didn't cause any problems it should be easy to go back.\"server lag,\" bull. just a horrible justification for a game breaking nerf."
"lack of common sense at ccp it appears.this needs to be fixed, now."
"a csm response would be appreciated.. if there has been one in the last 23 pages then i apologize, i looked but didn't see one.just a basic \"yes, we've acknowledged this issue and may discuss this with ccp\"thanks, db"
"signed !horrible change, scanresults need to be instant for efficient scanning.makes one wonder if the guys responsible for that play this game."
"defo this is such a pain, makes it 2x slower at scanning down ships in belts etcalso what exploit was it exactly? people who are able to click their mouse uber fast?"
"i have to admit, its pretty god damn annoying"
"after nanonerf it finish to kill the solo roaming in eve"
"signed.this is a terrible nerf that benefits no-one."
"2 seconds? really? feels like 7 seconds...this is a completely nail bitingly frustrating, irritating, annoying, care bear hugging, counter productive, excessive, ill-thought out, untested nerf!get rid of it please!if you are trying to counter macro ratters and such then change it to like a 0.2 second delay as this is how long it takes to re-position your cursor for your next belt scan and is enough to catch people de-cloaking after jumping into system etcalso this pop-up message is crap; we have no idea of knowing which scan worked and which one didn't2 seconds, you're taking the ****, ships can align and warp quicker than that!rubbish rubbish rubbish"
"very annoying with 2 secs waitpls change it to keep directional scanning useful and fun!!!"
"i normally dont whine about changes, but try to get the best out of it adapting.but this change is fail!2 secs waiting time is a huge nerfbat in the face and annoyance for pvp'ers who know how to use directional.ccp should encourage gameplay for pvp, not kill it!"
"bad, bad thing... i have no idea why this change was part of the last patch but it wasnt your best idea...change back this crap.always changes that dont help my gameplay ;(like this couple month ago:"
"scan timer is terribad. actually the timer itself isn't so bad. but the 'recalibrating' message? suckier than mr sucky's vacuum emporium. at the very least if the timer is going to stay, stop the scanner from automatically rescanning when you change angle / direction, cos that message is going to make me kill someone (in game)."
"ccp failed with this change, yes.. but those of you who are posting without ticking the box \"support to the idea\" are failing just as bad"
"i think the whole post is supportive..to be honest im getting tired of ccp putting in these delays just make performance better..its really lame..either go back to the coding and resolve the issue properly and stop putting in hacks, or seriously start looking at hardware cos this need for speed has been going on for years and get worse.."
"these guys coming up with these changes.. do they actually play on tq ?"
"/signed"
"signed"
"what once took 10 seconds is now a half minute fiasco. not to mention that certain tactics like narrow scan warping are useless now. i can understand some delay, but two seconds is nuts. yeah i spam my scanner occasionally, but i do it because i love the game, and want to find ratters before their juicy cnr's fly away to the safety of their poses."
"confirming i have a second account to cancel.--blastil"
"remove it, remove it, remove it, what a complete and utter fiasco this latest nerf is. its just typical of something or someone fixing something that isnt broke, what are your reasons for this ccp, totaly *******s, change it back."
"/signedundo this horrific change! serious nerf to solo/small-scale pvp!"
"it seems that clicking again inside the 2 seconds resets the counter, that's why it sometime takes even longer... which makes the situation that much worse."
"this change is so absolutely ******ed. ccp - lowering the skillcap in eve, one patch at a time. heavens forbid people excel at something in the game."
"signed"
"signed"
"oups"
"signed"
"put it back how it was :("
"omg - horrible idea. please fix kthxbye."
"this change is horrible"
"please change this to something reasonable like 0.5 sec delay."
"bad change ccp, bad change."
"have you ever tried to narrow ship using directional scaner? even 0.5 sec is probably too much for this change."
"its horrible, please remove it or atleast lower the time between scans."
"remove this ridiculous nerf, no lesser delay, no compromise. remove it, what the hell were you thinking ccp? this has to be one of the stupidest things you've ever done."
"agreed"
"support."
"/signed. it is l<U+FFFD> suck at the moment."
"over the last 2 years non-consensual pvp keeps getting nerfs. when eve goes back to being hardcore i will reactivate my 3 accounts. way to cater to the carebears  hope your subscription rates stay high."
"i saw this one coming. maybe .5 sec or less, but really 2 seconds? that's overkill."
"/signed"
"horrible change. /signed"
"when is it imortant enough to scan for, but not so important it can't wait?maybe you did break some macros or somthing - maybe how would i know? but you broke the scanner in the process, hence supporting op."
"scan delay is a game-breaker. please fix."
"change this back before eve becomes easier then warcraft"
"i totally agree. if you must keep the two second delay, then:a) good - get rid of the stupied error messsageb) better - make the error message disappear when the scanner can be used againc) still better - make the \"scan\" button disappear for 2 secondsd) best - just give me back my scanner!!!!!!!!!!!"
"yup, bad idea, worse implementation.signed on."
"signed"
"remove please"
"/signedwhile i understand the reasoning behind adding a timer, the implementation needs to be looked at. 2 seconds is too long as well. and the annoying pop-up needs to go. i'd rather see a enable/disable on the scan button or something..."
"/signed"
"i understand the measure, but the 2 seconds seem too much. 1 second is pushing it but would be acceptable."
"/signed"
"/signed0.1 sec, if any delay at all."
"please revert to previous, ccp"
"very bad change - breaks inties.i support op"
"/signedi presume this was the law of unintended consequences at work? not just inties affected - anyone in hostile space needing to see inbound or gather intel on enemy now nerfed.please fix this ccp - no delay best, but 0.1 or 0.2 may do if a delay is really necessary."
"/signed"
"supported"
"it's horrible. before, a good pilot (i mean good with person skills, not ingame) could locate something down to a celestial object (station, moon, planet, belt, etc) in under 20 seconds if he knows the system layout. now, the directional scanner is all but useless. scanning delay is bad, mmmkay?/signededit 1/1: forgot to tick support"
"//signed//rufio 42"
"yes this nerf is carp chage it now"
"bah, inty needs the nerfing. i say cut the sub-warp speed down on them as well so drones can eat em. stop whining cause its now a little harder to ruin someones day."
"id rather have the .5 of lag scanner spamming creates than deal with this idiotic change. give me my old scanner back..."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"what is the thinking for this new scan delay do you guys play eve or do you just brag about building eve? theres some of us that every day life in eve depends on that scanner unfortunately the majority of eve is filled with care bears that seem not to understand that the ship loss in eve is what bank rolls their fat wallets they want to get in their care bear social groups and say whats bad and then petition gms about what is wrong with eve. just general info, the pilots that pvp dont have time to jump on the forms and petition every time someone jumps into system and scans them down oh by all means pops their ship. you would think they would be happy with out us they would have no one to buy their mods and ships plz fix the scan nerf and stop listening to care bears before you turn eve into some kind of social club for ex wow members"
"page one with you. support the dead horse"
"still supporting and still waiting."
"found this on page two, not where it belongs at all..."
"yes!"
"oh yes i did! i bumped and supported it."
"supported."
"supporting this."
"welp forgot to actually sipport"
"supported.ccp please do the right thing and fix this loophole. risk free empire pos by abusing game mechanics is wrong."
"supported."
"signed."
"bump"
"personally i would be happy for rsd's to be boosted massively, but then given a 100% stacking nerf. i dislike having to put 3 damps onto a single target in order to achieve anything of note.also, the hybrid bonus is something of a bad joke since you can't fit much of merit in the rest of the ship whilst fitting anything above dual 150 rails (which have poor range even with spike and damage that is not worth noting), so would swap that for a boost in rsd strength bonus to put it on par with the falcon in concentrated bonus'.the scram range bonus has, imo been superseeded for the most part by the tackle inties and where these ships can attain longer ranges, the ships higher lock time is such that for the most part a tackle inty can close the difference in that time. true an arazu can project a faction scram out to ~20km (ts scram is the only one i've looked at), but i'm not sure that is enough to save the ship given its natively fragile nature (falcons complain at having to get within 60km, never mind 20km)."
"ya, the arazu is (somewhat) good at holding stuff down via disruptor, and as an ewar platform (damps), but it's really such a weak ship it's pitiful. plus, you can often just damp 1 or 2 ships at a time as any more than 3 damps really nerfs the ship itself (fitting, cap issues)."
"my thoughts are something like this.local should be a \"service\" provided only in high sec, why?well high sec is empire and concord land. as i see it, these are the entities providing the use or means of the communication system known as local.for game feeling improvment it would be nice to get a more \"i am leaving the secure space of high sec, to travle into the unknown\".my resons are more for the game feeling than anything else, but there would certenly be alot of other issues with a change like this.in my oppinion, it would give more of a adrenalin rush not knowing how many or what is flying the space i just entered.if i am not all the way of the grid, most corps use their own chat channels while in low sec anyways, and local is mostly used to give greif or smack.some players certenly use local to just chat with other players but i think it would be much better if you actually have to see or find other player to interact with them, the feeling of empty space would increase enormously.but what if, when you scaned down a ship and intercept it you would have to \"hail\" the pilot and deliver your demands or what ever, instead of just deliver them through locla. wouldent that give a more rl feeling? this is just an idee, but i would like to vent it with other pod pilotes and hear thoughts and whats good or bad with the idee.thx for the timemr.pentexi do apologize for my spelling disorder"
"it already feels empty."
"un-supportedlocal is used by npc's from time to time (missions, complexes etc)your proposal can be made makeshift by any pilot at any time if they so choose by minimizing the local window, and using direct player conversations.heavily benefits pirates and negatively affects everyone else.there are many other reasons to not do this but ill let someone else jump in"
"would hugely, epically fail. especially with the nerfed directional scanner. can you imagine 2 huge fleets running around a huge system, which has been pos spammed with ships (so you don't know if anyone's really in local), and those 2 fleets not being able to find each other???"
"hac's? what about all the other t2 ships? pvp centric game indeed (that is, when you've grinded enough isk to afford a ship)."
"simple enough: change the standing system to allow only five +10 slots, and five +5 slots."
"eff no. we like having friends thank you.--isaac"
"i don't even know where to begin on this. do you really think this will have any effect in practice? it'll just make people use out-of-game tools to compensate for an inadequate in-game interface even more than they already do. this proposal is bad, and you should feel bad."
"what the hell?"
"+1 to \"i accidentally the whole nc\""
"out of game tools to get those nice blue icons back in their local window?i'm intrigued...op idea is certainly not a solution, i'm thinking more about some kind of fee to resolve the issue.say 1mill isk per member and week if you want to set an entity blue."
"have you looked at razors blue list recently?"
"perhaps you should give a reason."
"i have never understood what is the drive behind forcing alliances from forming diplomatic relationships between each other. eve is a game where building diplomacy also matters greatly. if an alliance builds its empire based on political relations alone that itself is quite an accomplishment. it doesn't always have to be by the gun."
"quoted for emphasis."
"while your proposal certainly is simple enough, it offers absolutely no reasoning why this should be changed. i mean, hell i can come up with random proposals with no reasons.go back and try again. a little background on the supposed problem this will fix might help."
"while it would be hilarious i also say no."
"omfg yes whole heartedly agreenot sure if 10 is the right number but it definetly needs a slap hard"
"do you pay for your friends?"
"silly idea. no support."
"i don't know of any out-of-game tools to mod your overview. i assume someone's coded one, but that sort of thing is strongly banned by the eula. no, i'm thinking simpler - put your standings list into a webpage and have it open off to the side."
"website off to the side while you check standings.this makes me want this even more imagine the lolswait dont shoot me yet check your standings website.boomhmm a nutral ratter in a belt lets see.. nope not there someone tack...damnitdiplomats quiting left right and center over all the \"friendly fire\" incidents they are trying to smoothe over ohh the chaos sweet sweet chaos"
"this tbh."
"obviously proposed to fit personal needs and without contemplating negative effectsun-supported"
"if you want to prevent people from having lots of allies, you need to create a game mechanic that discourages them from being friendly with each other.this proposal certainly won't do it. as has been said already, people will create lists elsewhere and just manually check; or they'll use red to mean blue. there is no game mechanic tied to standings and so simply not allowing somebody to turn somebody else blue will not have much impact."
"or just grow some balls and voluntarily not have as many blues as you currently have? nobody is forcing you to keep adding blues."
"and as the op hasn't bothered to come back in here and justify why this is even a problem, i'm calling it a troll."
"this is not a troll or a flame or directed at any one person. this thread is a legitimate proposal. this thread is not the place for paranoia and assumptions. this is a topic i feel needed to be proposed and looked at for the greater good of the eve community."
"lol. i think this is even more relevant in these dire times.back up you go!"
"not going to work... your just slow them down.this is ccp's problem... we cant pretend to have any solutions at that rate."
"slowing them down helps the situation a lot, and it's really all one can hope for, for so long as people are able to post links. next csm meeting i'll write up this issue as a proposal, unless something new comes along before the meeting that solves the problem. i have some questions about the subject of billing though, before anything gets written into stone.1. they say these paid accounts to spam forums are fraud credit cards, yes?2. how many days usually passes before a fraud account is opened and ccp realizes it's fake(assuming it doesn't get itself banned first)?3. is there any way a legitimate purchaser can supply supporting documents to end this period of time early?also i hate captchas, and i really would like to find a solution that doesn't involve them."
"this seems like the best solution to the problem in the short term. i'll give it a hearty \"ugh\", because it'll start to impede legitimate players, but it's about the best option i've seen."
"great idea. will slow them down , why make it easy for them."
"it needs moar attention, so it getsa bump."
"looks like unanimous agreement. just so long as it only functions for ships in your hangar, best by a float over popup.do it ccp."
"please?"
"i have a strong suspicion that the reason why have these balance issues is because ccp designers think like this tortugan guy, as opposed to relying on months of pvp experience in game.eft stat comparison has its place, but when it becomes the center piece of reasoning, it misses the big picture"
"put this on an dps graph pls (i did without drones, the mega would even do better with). against an omnitank not moving bc-sized target the mega outdamages the tempest after 5km, but the tempest will catch up after 12 km again. if you take an omnitank with 150 m/s the mega peaks at 7 km with 800 dps (without drones) and the tempest peaks at 9km with 470 dps.and you dont have \"include reload time in dps\" activated. activate it bevor posting please!why didnt you put an siege missle launcher on the mega like you did on the tempest? you can fit the malkuth without problems! i this its because it would do more damage then the tempest and you didnt want this."
"he has been trolling this thread from the beginning.a main point that should be acknowledged is that the tempest blows, large projectiles blow, and everyone knows this. ccp doesn't care.keep this thread going though."
"1) by default, lower tracking speed with higher damage would lend itself to shooting targets that are the same size or larger than you. if you're shooting another battleship, the tempest would win.2) yes- the tempest does less damage outside it's optimal- but the tempest also has 150% the base speed of a mega.3) go ahead and fit a siege launcher on it- you then get a whole 10 dps more than a tempest, still with 10k less ehp, and now very vulnerable to neuts. unless i had dual cap boosters or cap transfers, i'd go nos on a mega any day."
"oh... sorry :)"
"fully agree to thisi fly all 4 races and minmatar is fun to fly but hard to know were to sit :p"
"well since projectiles run off the falloff 90% of time you never feel the pleasure of all that dps since its cut very badly"
"1 & 2) if you choose an zero resistance megatron as a target in dps-graph with half speed, the megatron does still more damage and would kill the megatron definit faster as the tempest does. the megatron itselfs dont have much problem with speed, but the tampest with hail itsefl does. if the tempest flys with full speed, it has huge problems to hit anything and would lose the fight. the megatron wouldnt have problems to hit the tempest3) its 30 dps if you consider reloadtime, but yes its not muchthe megatronfitting you gave us is much more versitale the tempest. you have a nos, a targetpainter and web and still the tempest does far less effective(!) damage (not raw data, on the battlefield this tempest is next to useless if your target is more then 30 km away or not tackled by anyone else down to 50m/s, and still then its worse then the mega: about 100 dps less against an not moving bs if the mega has the torpedo fitted, ~30 if not) even without the torpedo it would kill the tempest without problems!the tempestspeed only lowers the ships damage in this situation itself by about 300 dps, not considering the enemy is moving. the mega would lose nearly to zero damage if the tempest flys at full speed.to sum it up: tempest is worse against: a moving bc, a not moving bc, a moving bs and a bs that dont moves. if the tempest moves itselfs it will lose it a huge amount of damage and... will lose. the tempest is less versatile with your fitting, then the mega which would let it be even more worse. you only suffer during capbooster and 10k less ehp... thats it. but you would win in every situation.your fittings are just another example, how bad the tempest realy is."
"supported"
"because you don't know how to fit a ship. no mwd, which is critical (especially for a 9km scram). both shield and armored tank, very impractical. you've successfully given yourself additional detriments at a cost of a mediocre omni tank. increased mass and increased sig. not a good idea.no remote rep/cap booster, both necessary in a rr fleet and no local rep either.use of hail.. with out any tracking enhancers or tracking computer. you know hail has a 75% penalty on tracking right? it means that its effective range it 3.5k to 5k.. and you can only hit if your transverse is next to 0 (yes, i've tried this in combat).and the silly part is that all of these changes, if applied to the mega or apoc would have little effect or no effect on their damage dealing capabilities, and none on their tank.you must work for ccp.."
"you guys really have no creativity. have you ever considered that there's more than one way to fit a ship? the setup i offered was to beat a megathron in a 1v1- which it would. transversal should never be an issue if you're faster than your target- and if you're that worried about your lack of flying ability, switch out the adaptive nano plating for a tracking enhancer. in either case you're putting out the same dps with more ehp than a mega.as i said- i didn't really intend to get into another forum whinefest- but i was curious to see what all the complaints were about, so i decided to fit out a tempest and see for myself. and as i also said- if you're that sure that minmatar fail at pvp, train into something else- nothing's stopping you!"
"no it wouldnt and i have shown in different ways why. there is only one situation in which the tempest would have a 50:50 chance to win: both ships sitting absolute still at around 7km in an one on one fight. every other situation (and every real situation) is a situation, where the tempest will lose most likely. we are creative enough to fit different fittings.and because of this we know it isnt an good ship.we have shown very often that the tempest isnt a good ship for anything. there are alot evidence for this.we could proof it and you couldnt counter and still you say we have a lack of creativity? i think you dont care if minmatar needs a boost, you just want to argue.yeah sure, lets all train amarr and nerf everthing else, this game would do so much more fun!then the tempest has less ehp, less rawdamage (with torps; about the same without torps on the mega), less tracking, less range, dont have a web or pointer... sure it would beat the mega ;)but tbh, its a better fit, then the first try."
"i don't have a vested interest in this fight, but after reading page after of page of data, formulas, fitting info and reasonable arguments from guys like astrophobic, seriously bored, orakkus and many others i have to say that minmatar large ships and large weapons are seriously in need of a re-balance. things are so far out of whack that i have no idea why ccp hasn't done something before now.i hope the csm will bring this matter to ccp immediately and get the players some response. supported!"
"given the recent rig changes i think we now have a need for a ship that can transport rigged ships in greater quantities than the current means(orca, carrier). i propose that this ship be based off the freighter model, and have two variants(t1, t2).base stats:t1 variant:875m3 cargohold7,500,000 ship maintenance bay.t2 variant:875m3 cargohold10000m3 fuelbay2,500,000 ship maintenance bay.these ships should use the freighter and jump freighter skills as their prereqs and should have the same bonuses as their traditional counterparts with the exception that instead of giving a cargo bonus, they give a ship maintenance bay bonus. build prices should be about the same as the current freighter/jf build prices. the numbers for how large the ship maintenance bay should be were done using the number of packaged bs a unskilled freighter can hold now(15)and multiplying by 495,000. this is in keeping with ccp's policy that carriers/dreads are not giant transport ships. this should be rather easy to code/implement because there are no major changes that need to be made to the game in order for this to work. if anyone has any suggestions on the idea, let me know."
"supporting my own topic."
"i very much like the idea of this."
"as its been said several freaking times..we do not need an another bloody ship.allow freighters to transport rigged ships and keep to the freighter standard of loading and unloading cargo... that being... only able to drop ships at hangers in stations... pos's ship assembly arrays and such.this solves the problem without the dev's taking precious time away from having to build a new ship... and the coding is already there.stop trying to make a mole hill into a mountain... use what you got!"
"freighters only have 900,000 cargohold or so. that is only enough to transport one rigged bs. so using normal freighters to do it completely misses the point.i agree with having restrictions on where ships can be loaded/offloaded as well. this is not designed to be a giant carrier. the point is freighters are not currently big enough to allow rigged ship transport. so we either need to change current freighters to allow lots of rigged ships to be transported or create a ship based on existing code to do this job. i would be ok with either solution."
"i like the idea of more ships with different roles.this proposal isn't as simple as it would seem. they would not be able to use a \"ship maintenance bay\", as it is designed to allow access in space. this would simply make it more of a true carrier rather than an industrial transport. however, it may be something to consider if it had drawbacks, though the requirements would be more along battle and not freighter.as for the idea of just let freighters do it, i think a new ship type is in order for the purpose. freighters are set to carry packaged goods or raw materials. just as a car carrier is quite different from a standard freight carrier. plus i would rather have diversity in jobs for characters with different skill sets, than a simply flying one ship and do many things."
"this is the age of t3.to that end, let the \"new ship\" be a t3 freighter having an even 1 billion m3 ship bay and zero cargo, with a t3 jump variant, where the jump module comes at the cost of ship carrying capacity, say 30% reduction, and the addition of a fuel only bay for the jump fuel. in every other way, it has the same rules as current freighters and jump freighters which, for cargo carrying, are more than sufficient.now, imagine the tears generated from ganking a t3 freighter with 10 rigged tier 3 battleships in it..........."
"mmm i like t3 freighter. but come on we need it sorting asap."
"if t3 weren't so bloody expensive it would be do-able.as it stands now, a ship that is needed this badly by a whole lot of people can't be t3. if it could be t3 with a t2 pricetag i would be all about it though."
"/signed"
"yes"
"great idea!/supported"
"yes yes yes - i woul prefer a big flashing icon to be honest..its seems sometimes ccp have deliberatley left this out ;)"
"dont think this is needed tbhhell if i have managed to train myself to update my clone the second i get poded regardless of how blind ass falling down drunk i am at the time surly a trained chimp can do it"
"/support"
"not supported.there's already a way to make sure your clone is up to date. heck, eve-mon lets you know too.the information people need to keep their clone up to date is already there. we don't need any more nanny-boxes popping up at us. if someone is neglectful about their clone, gets podded, and loses sp, they deserved it."
"not supported.asking for this is much like asking for you to remember to buy ammo for your ship... or to remember that every time you undock your likely to get shot down.wholly it is a total waste of time and a lazy mans reminder of how stupid you can be if you havn't figured out how to check your clone's current sp limit.if you screw up... you only have yourself to blame.it's not that hard to figure out... wasting ccp's time on \"common sense\" things like this... is just an massive insult to ones intelligence.stop being lazy... there are far more important things to worry about.yeah i'm sure i'll forget one day... but like i said... it's my problem... not ccp's problem."
"supported"
"i said ok didn't i?? and remove clipping so heyyou don't bump into anything! look my point was if your going to use it as a tactic fine (cos i do) however at least make it realistic lol! i know i'll get my frig or cruiser and bump a carrier 5km wtf !! yeah as if! ;)"
"support that bumping should be looked at. for example by undocking ships would be protected from dmg by bumping by forcefield (not protected form weapon fire)."
"and ships bumping each other on fleet warp get such nice forcefield too?op failed and you did aswell."
"yup, it must has bump."
"1.0"
"didn't read it all, but yes, indeed, we should be allowed to make those widgets."
"blockade runners: small cargo, cloaky, run like the ****house is on fire.transports: big, lots of cargo, tough as nails.neighter one of them are really made for combat so the lack of high slots isn't really a problem."
"cloak + probelauncher would be a obvious use ... and pretty sure lots of prowlers doing this already."
"well, yeah...but that's what makes us special."
"it just would make them a little more usable.there's no reason a badger should have 2 up top when a t2 version lacks.i usually haul in a bustard when i mine, since i can't fly, nor do i have an orca, and being able to salv and tbeam rat wrecks is what made me think of this in the first place.i'm _sure_ there are pleanty of other cool things you could do with a transport ship, i'm just not thinking of them.so, since no-one has linked me to where this was before, has no one brought this up?-skan"
"because they are designed to run like hell and survive... what your implying is to make them do things they are not designed to do.this is not a big problem.... nor is it an issue. hence why your not getting a whole heck of alot of feedback... let alone support."
"ever see someone use a 'cane or destroyer to salv with? all those gun/missile hardpoints aren't there for no reason.if yer gonna troll, do it right.i know it's not high priority, and i asked if it had been brought up before."
"last i checked we where discussing transport ships.. not battle-cruisers or destroyers.i suggest you take your own advice kid before you embarrass yourself."
"well, since they changed the cov ops haulers to support black ops it only makes due sense that all of them should have twin high slots for their cloak and covert cyno, tractor, or other utility module."
"definately not supported are you mad!..the risk vs reward in pvp is already crazy and making isk as a actual pvper is difficult..or tell that to the noob whos spent 3 months ratting and slogging to get his shiny new raven only to get ganked on a mission or something and then have nothing left, only to go through the slog again, infact remove account as soo many people already do becuase of the crazy loss factor in eve."
"a real police force will not respond in 30 seconds, it will not have indestructible vehicles, it will not have the most powerful weapons, it will not have the cash to respwan sentries every 5 minute... must we go on?this issue is not about realism, it's about fun. please take this circlejerk somewhere else"
"forgot to support my own topic xd"
"in this current economic situation, i agree."
"agree with this as well"
"i aggre fully with this allso"
"what a stupid idea, you are a stupid boy."
"i support this"
"not supported.though you are allowed to sell your character for isk, it requires you to pay for the transfer. if paypal methods of payment were possible, given the easy and free way you can transfer cash between paypal accounts, then it would side further into a a rmt venture.i can foresee characters being sold where you ask for the buyer to send the funds to your paypal account for transfer. that alone is opening up a can of worms. even everything went smoothly, it would enable someone to farm accounts without having to pay any real money on their own. buyers would pay cash for transfers and isk. sellers trade isk for plex to pay for accounts to sell, and the cycle would continue. i know it can be done now, but at least it takes some validation and responsibility instead of a paypal account which only needs an e-mail."
"hehe, a bump is in order."
"the failings of the tools the csm is expected to work with have been an omnipresent barrier to the body working at peak efficiency for over a year now, and you've come up with a very clean way of eliminating just about all of those problems. i like this proposal a lot - not even necessarily because the idea of supporting the csm with the necessary tools is a new one, but also because this is an intelligent and plausible way of getting ccp to do it. fully supported."
"i support this idea."
"ok i support this, but heres my take on things.csm was supposed to be that bridge between player and ccp, long awaited and much needed..yay..but since its inception i hear absolutley nothing from csm members, apart from the goons smacking on coad :)i know they are there, but where? what are they doing? whats happening? they should be almost acting like the community union.sometimes its seems members are doing this for kudos and not for the real purpose it was meant for. so i really would liek to see more communication, whats happening with issues, minutes and agendas of meetings, more communication on the forums, discussions etc.let us know you are there and actually doing something!"
"well, it would be cool imo."
"oi, page 16? that won't do.free complimentary bump."
"what? that's too far from the top!*bump*"
"hehe, i think you need a bump!"
"bumps are good!/me grumbles at the fact he will have to wait needlessly for yet an another skill to finish before he can inject next skill he wants."
"for those of us with varying sec statuses, give us an option to warn us before going into a system of a certain security. and while we are at it, let the autopilot follow suit by avoiding all systems at your discretion.there is a warning for entering low sec, so why not one for high sec?"
"are you implying there are low security pilots who are stupid enough to enter high sec and get shot down because <laughs> they didn't check the sec rating of the destination systems?epic fail man... epic fail.not supported...look before you leap kid."
"i will say it again, because you don't read anything apparently, they have a warning for going into lowsec, why not for going into high sec.i'm starting to wonder if you actually play the game, because you seem to troll just about every thread."
"this has been proposed before and the basic response is usuallypay attention.unlike a noob who has no idea that \"low sec\" = \"you can be pwned at will now\", a player with a negative sec status character should (hopefully) have a firm enough grasp of game mechanics to know where they should and should not fly.and you can already set your autopilot to avoid specific systems (mine for instance will not plot a course to or through jita - because i hate it there). but aren't you ****tards the ones always telling us that if we get popped while autopiloting we deserve it?"
"this is not for autopiloting purposes, it's for creating a route from point a to point b in which we can click the yellow gate, warp to and jump, rinse and repeat. if you weren't so narrow minded, you would understand this has applications other than your first assumptions. yes everyone knows you can avoid systems, and rather than manually going through and click avoid every x security to y security system, this will do it for youmapquest does it, superfuture eve can't?if you haven't noticed, there is an autopilot setting that is \"stay in low sec when possible which gives you a purely lowsec route, if possible and shows where it will not be low sec.why not make that option available for people who have varying sec statuses? you offer absolutely no help ever in any thread, you just get angry at people because of them merely posting ideas. please, find a life."
"so what your trying to tell me is that you lost your ship because you failed to pay attention to where you where going?some of us actually pay attention to that sort of thing you know.. why cant you?"
"i support the addition of a more customizable autopilot. it's not a matter of paying attention- it's a matter of finding the most efficient route as fast as possible. we should have an option that says 'avoid systems of x.x security or above' and another that says 'avoid systems of x.x security or below' - it's still plenty possible to mess up, but it would make it a bit easier on all of us."
"finding a life won't do me any good. i'd just lose it again. ask me where my car keys are. i bet i don't know.oh, and i fixed your post to accurately reflect my actual reason for raging on the forum."
"this i'd support. had this been what the op suggested, i'd have supported it. unortunately it wasn't. so i didn't."
"thats rational.. and that i can support.not the foolishness the op came up with and the context in which he worded it."
"um, how about: bring back hull tanking! either way, i have suffered the awesome fate of having 4% hull left, and the really fun bit of repping it afterwards. for anybody that hasn't, trust me, you're better off not suffering that experience."
"they should also introduce hull repping drones as well.supportedreal men hull tank"
"have someone else do it for you with a remote hull repper. they rep twice as much as local hull reppers, and only 20% as long cycle time, so basically rep 50% of what a remote armour rep does/s. the big downside is the might higher cap use. local hull reps on the other hand use less cap/s, but rep much less/second.imo, just use a friend, or take the time required to rep yourself up. even something like an abaddon with 10k hull hp (max skill) only take about 6-7 minutes to rep itself back up with the 4 hull reppers that it can fit, or 45 seconds with 7 large remote hull reppers applied instead (which an abaddon can perma run with the right fit)."
"except you get almost capless 60% across the board resists from 1 module. hull tanks are only viable as a buffer tank. active-repping a hulltank is lunacy and making it doable seems unnecessary, nay overpowered, since you could use your mids for reppers, lows with a damage control and bulkheads and wouldn't need to make the decision between buffer, resists or rep amount that everyone else has to make."
"well, i still really want this, so bump it is."
"i endorse this service/product"
"would be nice to solve that...to many kills are lost to that"
"easily worst idea ever. congrats!why should my gametime be limited by some faceless forum moderators kneejerk reaction to what i post on the forums?the fact that only sploitermonkeys support this idea is proof enough it is ****."
"yes, that was the joke. this entire thread is a pretty obvious parody, at least if you know about mr. trassier. i should really have made my original post have a thumb in it, but i couldn't quite do it."
"dumbest idea and affront to free speech. what hell is wrong with you guys? its not like it audio don't read it if it offends you. (shakes head)but i'm willing to compromise if you're ban in forum you can't log into the forum. leave the game playing to the gamers. bears (slaps forehead)"
"yes and ban all accounts on the same ip and creditcard, being able to use alts to get around bans should be punishable by extra long bans."
"extend bans from any game to every other game someone plays. also remove temporary bans and make them all permanent. banned people should have their computers and other internet-capable devices seized aswell. put them into jail for a few years, theres no place in this socity for people who brake eve-o forum rules. personally, i wouldn't mind if they'd be just liquidated."
"hi gents, lark here. the op has been stalking me on the forums for some time now. he and his little squad of cronies check all my posts and report any which infringe on the rules. hence my most recent 'holiday' for my main. he's also quite upset that my corp and i are inhibiting his game time by harrassing his corp, camping them in and causing them to haemorrhage members. he can't do anything to me in game so he's trying to kick up a fuss here on the forums. we have of course been vigourously trolling him for his efforts but it's time to put on my csm hat and become a bit serious.my personal serious opinion on this matter and his other thread (also a callout thread if you check the initials in his 'examples'): if you are so upset by someone's actions or words on an internets message board which deals with an internets spaceships game then you should probably get out more. i believe during one of the previous csms it was discussed that ccp believe the forums to be a 'seperate entity' to the game. i see it that way too and not just because i personally have just copped a 6 monther. obviously if illeagal things are posted on the forums then it's a different matter, but for run of the mill smack, trolling and banter that goes a little to far banning someone in game for forum indiscretions especially if their e-fame in game and on the forums attracts the kind of attention from those with too much time on their hands. on the subject of alt posting. it's the account that is banned, not the individual and it's exactly the same in game as well (for minor offenses).regardless. this topic is a troll aimed at me. i'm done with it and rest assured won't be taking it to any csm meetings."
"not sure if serious."
"a game ban is more severe than a forum ban, sogame ban = forum ban yesforum ban = game ban noip ban = no ( a lot of internet connections use dynamic ip's so banning ip's is pointless and could cause issues for non banned players ).account ban = yes , ban all accounts of an abuser."
"either serious, or very consistent in her joking."
"this topic is not a troll aimed at larkonis trassler. it is simply something i feel needs to be implemented into the game. paranoia and assuptions have no place in this thread. this is a legitimate post of a legitimate idea."
"i would support a game and forum ban for trolls that start stupid idea threads. how about that? i know it would never fly since stupid ain't against the rules or anything; but, it's a pleasant thought."
"yeah, considering how easy it is to get forum bans without realizing it, and how there's no way to appeal a permanent forum ban, and how you really dont know how many strikes you have left unless you keep all your warning e-mails.greeeat idea"
"no."
"i might have known you'd support a stupid idea for getting at people you can't touch in game."
"hmm, i didn't make myself very clear: i use alt-click to change the point of reference. if you alt+click on something in space, it functions as look at shortcut."
"i like it how it is but having a broken mouse like mine that randomly double clicks when you click once is a freaking pain loli don't want it changed from this option but if they added joystick control it would be awsome lol :d"
"didn't know that, but i'd like to have more shortcuts ingame changeable....btw is tehre is list of all those pesky non-changeable shortcuts with the mouse etc? i didn't know the alt-click one"
"/unsupported.buy a better mousebuy a new mouse <U+FFFD>3.99 in pc world if your in the uk"
"there's no reason not to allow more customization- those who like double clicking can double click- those who don't can make their own shortcut."
"hm, what's this? it's a bump is what it is. i still think this would be very useful, for many things.*bump*"
"ohgod... *bump*i would love to make a ninja have to work for a wreck.skan"
"firstly, this is a bit of a spur of the moment thinkup, and would greatly appreciate criticism (constructive or lolfail), that would help to put this out as a proposal.insurance seems to be a bit of a minefield, and it helps sustain pvp quite a bit in cutting off some of the loss if you lose a ship, but.let's look at an irl car insurance company. if you are an older good driver who is living in a safe area of town, with a respectable job and a small car with not alot of power, the insurance will be cheap as chips.for the same company, if you are a young driver, who lives in a concrete jungle with no job, and write off very powerful cars every 2 months, the insurance goes through the roof.this could be applied to eve considering, the type of ship being insured, the space in which the character is in most of the time, the type of activities the character undertakes, the amount of payouts previously had, the security status of the character, etc.this idea would make it harshly unfair to pirates in any kind of combat oriented ship i admit (this is an area where suggestions would be appreciated).and it would also allow characters with high security status who usually mine in high sec to fly the equivalent combat ship for a tiny price compared (but that's how insurance works is it not? risk based).other issues such as self-destructing, being concorded, agressing in lowsec then being ganged down, should also invalidate the insurance, as it would with normal insurance.again, i stress this would be quite a complex thing for ccp to do, and it's just a rough idea, but any advice would be greatly appreciated. i do not admit to being a hardcore pvper so i do need you pvpers to give me your side of it, and how it affects you.thanks"
"ok, you do realize why the insurance was brought into play right? it was put into place because it was causing a huge grind. and the game was not any fun. you also do realize that this a game about space ships..and the physics of all this is fake. you get that right?"
"yes i am aware that the physics of it are fake, and that it is sci-fi, i don't go to the supermarket looking for webs to stop usain bolt facerolling the sprints.but no, i was not aware that was the reason for the introduction of insurance. but, this doesn't make it a grind at all does it? (or atleast not as bad is it would be without insurance)example: you buy ship a for 100,000,000 isk, and say you are in terrible standing and lose ships quite frequently for whatever reason, your insurance costs say 35,000,000 isk, but covers the full value of the ship.okay so captain care will insure the same ship for 20,000,000 isk or whatever value you attribute to it, it's not actually that bad a grind?purely random figures though btw.what would you consider as 'a horrible grind'?"
"he was talking about the grind to get new ships wthout insurance"
"this is usually when someone with an eye patch and a bird on his shoulder says: \"don't fly what you can't afford to lose.\""
"oh, what's this? a shameless bump."
"horrible idea.the game is already set to make annoying the miner or mr a profession, lets cut those two a break and say hell to the no.especially when someone could just tow away a jet can. no barge is going to catch up.and dear lord to make us play tug of war with tbeam strength.-skan"
"yes please. it would help prevent noobs from locking themselves out of certain parts of empire. besides, people who don't want faction mission will just decline them anyways. a really clever mission runner will move to a place where he/she has 3-4 agents available to them within 2-3j. so having to decline a mission here and there is little more than a nuisance, if that even.that being said, i think there should be a list of missions to choose from, and not just accept/decline. not saying all the missions in the game should be available to choose from, but a list of 4-5 different ones would be nice. at least that way you would never get the same mission twice in a row (unless you really wanted it anyways)."
"not supported. you don't want to run a mission? that's fine. suffer the appropriate consequences - which include hving to wait (potentially) to get another mission, or having to fly to another agent to look for work."
"lower right corner!!thankyou!i've looked 1001 times but seems that mouse-cursor never came up for me or never found the right place to click.been working with a tiny lil window and a massively long scrollbar for ages!"
"lp store needs to maintain last window position, size and scale, as well as proposed change to resizing.also a filter as suggested could be useful.supported"
"very supported!"
"support"
"similar to the videos played at race selection? would be good if not difficult/awkward to implement for each corporation.while its true that the corporation descriptions are limited in usefulness to veteran players, i recall when i first started playing way back when, i enjoyed reading about the different corporations, and the descriptions were the sole piece of information i used to pick my first ever agent (before i understood quality and levels).it seems odd that given ccps improvements and implementations to the \"new player experience\" that they would remove something like this."
"this is not a proposal seeking recent cargo and bay changes to be in any way rolled back.this is a proposal that asks the csm to discuss raising with ccp a long outstanding balancing and use issue related to carriers that has now been made extremely pointed by the changes to carrier cargo and bays. in short, the issue is the matter of refitting capitals on operations and the difficulties presented by the high volume of capital modules (4,000m3). before the recent changes it was at least conceivable that a carrier could, by making fitting compromises (ie. at least one extender) and combining its hangar array (10,000m3) and cargo (eg. 3,500m3 extended at least once to ~4,460m3) carry sufficient capital weapons to, for example, retool a dreadnought, or refit itself and others. it was at least possible even if rarely done. it has been rather severely limited ever since the capital modules were increased in volume from 1,000m3. but it was possible and as it was possible it was a bit harder to argue this was an issue.it is now beyond rationality to consider it. a carrier may carry a couple of capital mods and retool itself in a limited way but it cannot possibly serve as a tender for capital refitting in any practical manner.this is a severe limitation on a combat logistics vessel. it can handily operate as a refitting tender for subcapitals and that is fine. however, if the carrier is to be a combat logistics vessel capable of operating fully in all fleet types then the question of capital module volumes needs to be revisited. speaking personally, i'm happy to accept that the carrier is not a volume shipper of freight if that's the design decision. but i think a quid pro quo is needed on the question of its role as a refitting tender for sister capitals.i am aware of the general game balance issues when it comes to the volume of capital modules. i know why they were changed from 1,000m3 to 4,000m3 a couple of years ago. i know that the bogeyman here is mineral compression.but it's not good enough for the spectre of mineral compression and a 'fix' for it on capital modules to significantly impair a designated and intended ability of a line of ships.i don't ask for a specific fix. i can think of a few (eg. as special purpose bays are the new flavour 'capital refit array' - a large bay, 40,000m3 at least, on carriers and motherships that can only hold capital modules would be an option) but i think it is more important to get this on ccp's agenda so they can consider the options and their merits than for me to be offering up my prescriptions. i ask the csm to discuss the merits of bringing this issue to the attention of ccp for rebalancing and ask people to support this if they agree there is an issue here with the use of carriers and capital refitting in space. in essence, if carrier-hauling is to be less efficient now, that's fine, but in return can there please be a consideration of restoring the ability, supposedly designed and accepted, of carriers operating as capital refit platforms.cheers,cosmo"
"supported.though sadly i think you've melted the brain of the tl;dr crowd."
"i'm not sure that carriers need this capability - their smas can only carry battleships, so making them battleship tenders only(which their current corp hangars are sufficient for) would seem adequate. i like the idea of motherships being fleet tenders though, and giving them the ability to hold a large number of modules for capital refitting(along with a sma expansion, and a couple other wacky ideas i've seen like the ability to access corp hangars at long range for drone/ammo/ice replenishment) would be perfectly reasonable. limited support."
"it also seemed odd to me that the carrier/mom's never had any major capital support roles... this idea makes sense.. if anything it would define the role of a mothership greatly so and make them useful and the titan less tempting aside from the obvious."
"supporting this.i would be lovely to see ships able to fill their roles more suitably, even roles that they are at present perhaps not used in regularly."
"stupid 'support this' box unchecking itself after a preview..."
"not supported, at least for carriers.you can still outfit capital sized vessels just bring along a transport."
"well i think 99.9% of the eve community are not happy with how ccp conducts its customer service. personally it feels that they dont care and 'we will get round to it' when we do attitude, shut up and put up attitude. to be frank its not acceptable. there is also a serious lack of communication internally.one occasion had to wait 4 days for a petition to be answered as my account was accidently expired by ccp, 4 days! i couldnt log in to the game nothing. eventually got a standard reply as it was happening to a few people. then a gm answers my initial petition and states send me an email address for the account! but you have my account details from the petition! and this issue has been resolved, why didnt you know? do you guys even look at the petitions or what your community tells you? it doesnt seem so..anyway surely ccp can put in a real customer service help desk just like most companies do.1st line support - helpdesk (just normal techie people)- help with account issues, logging in, billing, payments, immediate support (yes even have a phone number we can ring on!)2nd line support - maybe things like stuck issues.3rd line support - gms then get involved with the finer detail issues. reimbursements, game issues etc...this would free up gms to actually spend time on real problems not silly account billing issues etc, and we probably wont have to wait so long.also communication in general, i seriously would like to ccp devs/gms, management etc to get more involved with its players on the forums, talk to us, get involved. dont just wait until fanfest. if theres topics on the forums then hey get involved in the discussions.yes we have dev blogs but thats not getting involved..."
"lowsec lp is the same as highsec lp - it's summed at the corporation level. are you asking for, say, a lowsec cn station to have better offers than a highsec cn station? there's no way i can support that."
"i actually could it would bring more to low-sec :danhything bringin people to low-sec i fully endurse :d"
"and what would prevnt a high sec runner to go to lowsec for better lp shop while running in high sec still? carebearpirates camping station and gates?i.e. its not boost to low sec as missions dont have to be run in lowsec to gain lp for that corporations."
"of course, a change like this would require extra coding to identify whether, for example, the lp was acquired from a high sec navy agent or a low sec navy agent. but i'm pretty sure it can be done."
"what your asking for would likely be much easier achieved by increasing the lp payout from lo-sec agents. the problem is finding the point where you can tempt away those who can be tempted (there will always be a block who won't budge for anything and that's their playstyle) without opening up the can of worms that would be major alliance interest."
"fully supporting this product :d"
"i dont mind people seeing my plus fours. or when im ******ed my fives."
"people like kazuo using 60+ build slots will, by their heavy usage, cause their build costs to go up. powerusers of npc build slots will have a much harder time finding low-cost build slots.and lets be honest here, a battleship requires ~100k m^3 in raw minerals to build, so new players trying to get into that market already need to have substantial hauling ability or understand courier contracts. everything else can be pretty easily handled by a t1 industrial. yes, it requires more time input from everyone looking to maximize their profits, but smaller-scale manufacturers are much more flexible and this gives them greater ability to undercut the entrenched manufacturers by saving on production costs.projecting a bit, are we?"
"they do it for offices already, why not?"
"nothing."
"i guess people using suck-puff mice can wait until next year to get their zoom buttons back."
"rofl. 65 issues ?werent the main purpose of the csm to filter the wishes of the playerbase to the most important topics ?"
"i would say that considering the number of posts that go up in the assembly hall we've done a pretty good job of filtering them.why are you complaining? it's no skin off your nose if we take 6 issues or 600 issues. most of them are minor ui tweaks anyway."
"where did you get the impression from that i were complaining ? i was rather being amused.and what is that talking about my nose skin.. dude, seriously ^^."
"i'm not 100% sure if you're poking fun at ccp's development time or if you're implying that we're not going to be talking about the zoom buttons... but its number 24 on the list (\"bring back zoom buttons\").and as larkonis points out, there are quite a few minor issues in the list that will not require extensive discussion with ccp."
"oh.. i can think of one that's missing..."
"in addition to the 3rd csm's issue list there are several issues that the 1st or 2nd csm passed that ccp has yet to resolve. things like incentivizing 0.0 or reverting back to the old cyno jump effect. these topics are still ostensibly on the table even though they're not on this list"
"the eve font may have been ok back in the days of 15\" crts at 800x600 resolution but on today's wide format hd displays it's just painful. please do something to make the ui legible on modern lcd displays!supported."
"agreed, this need to happen, or at least be an option.case in point - trying to goof around with corp mates, and typing in caps, i've noticed that the letters tend to ... uh... lean into each other.-skan"
"yeah, the font truly sucks. i run 1920 x 1280 or somesuch and the ui fonts are seriously too damn small. can it really be that hard??"
"i would have enough fixing the number \"0\" (with a dot or a slash inside) but agree."
"definitely supported."
"signed... i miss the old cyno effect terribly..."
"oh god yes! remove that sissyasscrapp spacebending <blubsh> and bring back epic dematerializationwormholewithlightnings and stuff"
"not sure if i /signed this already or not. but just in case....very /signed!"
"signed to the max!!"
"supported!"
"i support the idea of removing neutral rr completely.reason: the war is between two corps/allys and sanctioned by concord. if anyone else wants to participate in any way (active supporting one side or fighting against the other), they have to declare an own war or join one of the corps.they also still could help one side passively, by giving intel/scouting, supplying them with ships/modules."
"serves a purpose, should be easy enough to implement... man ccp might actually make this happen in a couple of years o.ooh.. whait.."
"ui improvements good."
"love the idea. might be interesting to make it work somehow with dust 514"
"wth is this 5h1t!!"
"signed"
"very annoying and it detracts from the game. i'd rather see it go the other way and have an auto update button that will scan continuously (every 0.5 sec)"
"posting with my main to +1 the rage. would 1 sec have been so bad?"
"/signed"
"jesus fcking christ ccp/signed"
"please undo this change - it's another nerf to covops - being restricted in passively scanning makes it harder to be \"covert\" - which is kinda important for a covert ops specialist.edit: clicked the support this thread option."
"/signed."
"- - this change was made in order to stop some 'kind' of abuse.... .... fix the damn-folks who are abusing it rather than nerfing the hell out of regular players!seriously is there no-one at ccp that pvp's anymore?how about those that want to stop macro/i"
"oh, this is a perfect idea, if you want to use 220 of your inty's tiny cpu capacity, ingenius, how come no-one else thought of this?/signed for 0.1 - 0.3 second delay"
"/signedurgs... never thought that 2 seconds could feel like an eternity"
"/signedwith your name showing up in local instantly the directional scanning must be kept to be a fast paced procedure! and that annoying popup window... 0.2 seconds should be more than enough."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i mean really why not do away with pvp all together ccp./signed"
"/signed"
"if i wasn't clear i think that the new scan mechanics are poop. it seems that ccp favours the carebears by continueally making changes that help them and doing nothing to further pvp in eve."
"signed/pls turn it back"
"/sign"
"remove it!!!"
"/signed"
"/sign"
"confirming nc requested this feature to keep their safespots.+1"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"/signed"
"i never complain about any nerf or boost because i have trust in gamedevelopers and the knowledge about balancing a game.but in this case the change is really annoying../signed"
"fix this please - it was fine before and it won't help with lag much as people are spamming the button more now."
"/signedthis got to be removed!!!"
"/signed"
"2 seconds is too long for scanning down something from a planet in a nearby belt.i totaly agree that something like 0.1 to 0.5 seconds would be ok... and through that time the \"scan\" button might be greyed out so you see that you can't scan again now."
"horrible change tbh. :("
"/signed change please"
"signed."
"yes"
"signed"
"confirming this is redonculous."
"1.0"
"/signed"
"sign please change that"
"/signed. change it back please!"
"/signedpls change it back"
"signed"
"lame.sauce."
"why oh why change something that was never broke!!its incredibly bad now :("
"i support this request. let the scanner scan and not wait...!"
"/signedi want normal scanning back!"
"/signedwhy don't you take this 2 sec delay back, and ....."
"/signed"
"signed... it sucks"
"signed! please undo!"
"the scan timer delay is fail. very game breaking. please fix ccp!!!!"
"close this..its useless. adapt or play wow"
"agreed,2 seconds is way too long a delay. since most skirmishers and scouts are in ships that warp @ 9au/s or greater, these fast warping ships cannot realistically scan for targets while in warp any longer as they will by pass by potential targets without having them on scan entirely."
"i'm now hamstrung when hunting or running. please to let me scan faster again?"
"signed."
"signed."
"it really does need to be fixed.scouting was already something of a difficult and thankless job. this change just makes it that much worse.i'm sure something between 0.1-0.5 seconds would be sufficient to stop tight-looped macro's but still allow humans to use the scanner properly."
"thanks alot ccp."
"signed"
"i hate the change and instead of posting it with my fifty alts, consider this +50"
"i absolutely friggin' love this change! or, maybe not. /signed"
"signed"
"i hereby support taking **** changes out of the game."
"check"
"/signed!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"bring back the old scanner"
"fix it it is terrible."
"/signed"
"signed."
"with this kind of response its a joke that it hasn't been changed back already."
"this scanning delay is very annoying and is making it a lot more difficult to track people using the scanner.i do not approve!please change it back!"
"signed.make it x number of scans per minute if you have to. there are better ways of dealing with bots."
"signed."
"might as well just stop now, this is not going to be reverted."
"/me signed"
"please return my scaner, hunting targets when trying to narrow sucks with delay."
"lolyeah...sure..g-g-g-game brrrrrreaker!!!!!!not quite.just because you all decide to cry in the same place, doesn't mean it matters.ccp will just look at the accounts all these ragetoons are on and see it's only a hundred or two of the same butthurt (butt)pirates.in fact cnn has a pic on the innernets of ccp sitting in a bar laughing at you right now"
"i'm pretty sure that 600 characters cannot fit on 100 accounts. the math just doesn't work out.as for the 2 second delay, it is too much. i can see that if they have bots spamming the scanner like 10 times a second (if that's even possible), then it might create some lag. however, this change is limiting actual player skill. all they ned to do is change it to a .5 second delay and it would be sooo much better.honestly, when i see posts like yours, i wonder how stupid you can actually be. i'm so astounded by your stupidity that i actually don't know what to say in many cases. i can't argue against you because you made no point other than saying we are butt hurt **********s. i really don't know what else to say to your completely incompetent post. you must never use the scanner"
"please change it back!"
"signed"
"shorten the timer or make it walk the plank. fix the ui."
"quoting someone who hasnt worked out how eve works yet. go back to your missions."
"/signed"
"plusone"
"/signed"
"huge fu to belt piracy :("
"please do away with the delay or at least make it shorter."
"signed. it ruins a scouts life."
"about 900 replies and 700 supporters... in a matter of 7 days... fix it"
"atleast talk to us about it ffs.classic ccp."
"it's ridiculous to limit it to 2 seconds. signed."
"oh god the message is so annoying. please, ccp. at least reduce it to .1 second. or even .5 seconds, i could deal with that."
"oooo for the love of whatever you hold dearly change it back"
"signed. it's particularly bad in wormholes, where you live and die by the d-scanner."
"/signed"
"i didn't think the change would be that all that bad, but it was clear pretty fast that it was baaad/signed"
"signed, i hate this change"
"signed, return back to how it was."
"yes, and an annual interest of 5 % please ! or at least a wallet division."
"t2 ammo needs love."
"i didn't read all posts here but i can definitely tell you t2 ammo needs a rework in there design when manufacturing them. it takes way to much time and the profit margin is ridiculously low.i would rather spend my time and isk getting the lp for faction ammo than building t2 ammo.i don't know if its considered charges or something cause i know nothing about mining but making omber crystal and the likes takes more time for the copy and inventions ???? ridiculus. i can't say numbers cause i dont have them in front of me...but i was angry when i saw those especially when i saw the profit margin at the end..alsmost the same as the ones i do regularly (no dont ask, i wont tell what i invent lol)"
"i use hail l to shoot structures in missions....fully supporting this issue, the drawbacks of t2 damage ammo need looking at."
"scorch and aurora are good, conflag and that other thing noone is stupid enuff to use are crap...edit : support \"love for t2\", do not support \"nerf faction ammo\""
"i'm"
"i would like additional support options for 2-4 monitors. right now the only serious (and very expensive) option is purchasing a matrox triple head 2 go digital edition and three identical lcd monitors. it's the only way that you can use any video card that can support a single monitor with very high resolution atm.i currently use two lcd's of different resolutions for my two accounts. fortunately they run very well with a quad core cpu, 9800 gtx video card, and windows 7 that i have in my main pc.however more options would never be a bad thing!"
"*walks in**nods**walks out*"
"bump.almost a month since this has started, and still no response at all from ccp. i'm starting to wonder if this is all a waste of time, as this whole sub-forum and the csm. is it really that hard to get a dev/gm/rep to post anything, even if its damage control? also, i finally gave ccp another chance and petitioned a ship loss that happened due to docking mechanics being bull**** as usual. the petition (and another different one) have been \"open\" for 6 days now with no response at all- but then again, i've had a friend wait for a carrier to be reimbursed for a month, so i'll prob still be waiting till the new csm gets elected next year"
"i have always wondered why this wasn't already in the game."
"i've thought about it... honestly... if a cov ops ship can use a standard cloak and a cov ops cloak for any number of reasons... it makes sense to assume that a black ops battleship could use either cov ops cyno's and or a standard cyno likewise.not that it makes much sense.... but i suppose for those who don't want to train for covert cyno's would like this option.supported."
"titans already can. heres what wierdfish said about it on sisi.<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:19:40 ] mike c > still havent fixed black ops ability to open a portal to a pos cyno array<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:19:51 ] mike c > so imo still broken<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:21:58 ] ccp weirdfish > /emote is going to regret asking<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:22:08 ] ccp weirdfish > how is the black ops portal opening to a pos broken ?<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:22:18 ] tzeer > it cant open<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:22:21 ] mike c > aye<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:22:37 ] ccp weirdfish > by design<U+FEFF>[ 2009.08.19 13:22:41 ] ccp weirdfish > so not broken"
"i kind of like the situation"
"this is not an issue ccp is in a position to affect, it is a matter of supply and demand in a player run market.stop flying hacs, or stop dying in them./not supported"
"the price of hacs seem ok to me, not that i currently can afford one but no point in moaning about that.there are in my opinion issues with the moons but that has more to do with the value distribution among the moons rather than the total need. changing the needed materals should only have the effect to even out the value among the different classes of moons not so much the end price. it could be affected if evening out the value would lead to a greater total production capability but i'm not so sure it would. might actually rather lead to a slightly higher cost due to more work being needed to do with regards to pos fueling and such."
"ok i'm going to go out on a limb here and suggest that the ferogel exploit lead to the drop in hac prices rather than 0.0 wars restricting production.as for ccp interfering with the market, that's been going on for some time. what about tech 2 bpos and invention.i don't think the issue is t2 ship prices rather t2 insurance or lack there of, sort that out and it wouldn't be a problem."
"that means messing up t2 rig market.... some t2 ships can drop 70 mil of blue salvage. now lets increase the insurance and u will see me buying up hacs, insure them, self distruct them, and then salvage.im gallente and i only buy a deimos becasue a ishtar is more expensive (160m without rigs + fittings) and i dont want to use drones. that will explain the fact that deimost will be bought always, even if they are 600m. why do i wanna buy a hac, cause a vexor has drones a thorax has too little dps and dies very very quickly (max 300 dps) the eos sucks (drones and guns?? wtf??) and the astarte is too expensive (hello 350m + always primary). so better stick too cepters and ausault frigs for gallente or skill up for other races. question, who are using hacs? not the people in low sec (gate guns) and not the people in high sec (mission runners bs), a well maybe the merc's. mostly hacs are used in 0.0. now lets tie that too income gain... how much isk does a avarage player makes per hour in 0.0? 20m is the correct answere. a t2 fitted deimos with rigs cost about 220 million. 11 hours of grinding. now wonder if that is alot or if its fair vs the fact that its a ship designed for 0.0 warefare.."
"mwhauhaha gotta love those pirate tears flowing (idiot tears imo too)..but i never would of thought of that about the market...for being to high ??? lmao. the op made my weekand yeah...its fine as it is..believe me"
"stop buying them and they'll lower in pricehacs are for noobs"
"but hacs are used by pirates (mostly) and the likes ?i like you :) you put fuel in fiya...mwihaha"
"while the op is mostly pure whine, there is a useful idea here...the number of players in the game is increasing, not decreasing, and thus the number of pilots wanting to fly t2 ships is also increasing. however, the total supply of the moon minerals needed to make these ships is stagnant. every other building material in the game has a more-or-less unlimited supply (there can always be more missions run/rats killed, minerals mined). some new factor (creating more r64 moons, fixing alchemy etc) will likely be needed in the future to accommodate the rising demand."
"please spare a thought for the people trying to keep the prices high. this is their livelihood, they have children to feed."
"exactly, the supply/demand relationship is broken in this case and ccp should look into it. i haven't bought a hac in 18 months, but prices have still gone up. they went up because of ccp's intervention, which was needed, but had this unfortunate side effect."
"yep ships aint to expsensive it the insurance thats the killer. 19mill for a vaga when the cost is around 200mill to buy and fit"
"you mean you're blaming ccp for fixing the pos exploit that artificially depressed prices?"
"i believe he's saying that fixing the exploit was good and needed, but that there remains an underlying problem in placing a hard, permanent cap on the quantity of materials needed for the modules and ships used by a rapidly increasing number of players. the eventual consequence of the current mechanic is shortfall as the number (and sp totals) of the eve populace grows.on a side note, \"snide\" is not the same thing as \"smart,\" \"clever,\" or \"insightful.\" comments like yours don't make you look intelligent - they make you look like you don't get what the grown-ups are talking about. the same remark posed as a question or suggestion would have had the same constructive effect without making you seem like either a jerk or an idiot."
"i support this idea 100%. abuse of a system for the sake of trolling or harrassment in any format is wrong and should be dealt with strongly."
"up"
"if a single crystal has a 1 in 1000 chance of breaking, then on average its lifespan is 1000 shotsit also means that on average, you're replacing a single crystal every 125 or 142 rounds fired depending on whether you have 7 or 8 guns. also, how much more or less effort does it take for the servers to generate a random number as opposed to ticking a variable down by one? i can see this as a good idea if there could be found evidence that it would lighten the server load."
"i'm pretty sure that the status quo is actually random as well - you'll note the volatility stat on fancy crystals. i don't fly amarr myself, but i'm pretty sure that if you put in two identical fresh-built crystals into two identical guns, they will break at different times due to the randomness of volatility. as such, the status quo is both generating a random number and decrementing the hp, whereas the proposal would just generate the random number and not need to keep the hp stat. thus, i'm pretty sure that this actually would be a server improvement."
"as an amarr pilot i'm gonna have to say no. this idea is terrible."
"there are ways to do a quick randomthe one that comes to mind is to set aside an area of memory to contain an array of random number.e.g.take 64kb of memory and fill it from a random number generator with numbers in the range (0-65535).this gives just over 30,000 random 16bit integers, do this when the server boots up.then every time you want a random number you just move the array pointer up one > back to the start if off end.then pluck the number out the array.its a lot quicker during play time than using a pseudo rnd function which can use quite a few cpu cycles.to clarify on the subject of 1-in-1000 chance, that might not be the actual number,it was just an example.i have no idea how many shots you normally get out of a crystal."
"suuported. imagine the tears when someone shells out 15m for a fresh xl mf set and they shatter on the first shot. awesome."
"not supported.i pvp alot, and just the chance of one of my crystals breaking on the first shot, would force me to put an extra set in, adding another few millions to the cost.also, what do you do with grouped weapons and crystals shattering? do all guns stop firing and all your crystals break, or is the chance calculated per each crystal or is the 1/1000 applied once to count for all 5?"
"*yay*"
"/signed"
"."
"supported!"
"would be useful! yes!"
"definitely"
"you can also see the fittings on a ship by going to the repair tab while docked in the same station.am still supporting though :d"
"bump"
"your setups are totally stupid and you obviously know almost nothing about pvp.bump!"
"sup tortas a pure min pilot out side of caps. i disagree with alot of points in the thread, that start minmattar arent as effective as other bs's. i live in 0.0 where to survive if someone calls titan you either try and tank it or you try and get outa the bubbles and warp, ive found nothing more effective at quick high speed burns than minmattar bs's, i clear bubbles and am into warp much faster than 90% of the fleet, therefore survive longer. also the high alpha means you can cut chunks away giving them shorter time to recover.also to those who say the pest is a bad rr boat you sir are wrong, it is an amazing rr boat with the right fits seeing as close up you can get a repper 2 torps and ac's in there and nothing but the repper is using cap in your high slots, and you can fit point and web in the mids with a cap booster and mwd, yes you armor tank try it might change your mind. the mailstrom i've only dabled with not a fan of shield tanking actively, just buffers, a personal opinion tho. but what i have used it for is tank breaking on command ships you can fit a ship with a stunning alpha, if your support fleet cant keep the active rep in check then your the hammer and their the anvil.tho i do agree the mix'd weapon types does require more training, it also opens you up to much more in your favour, i mean look at the huginn, mixed damage and fast you cant keep damage off you even if your tracking disrupting and if you have ecm jams prolly wont even hold. minmattars have by far the best interdictors in the game, the sabre can shred any of the other three, with ease. their af's are bad ass, tough and yet fast, the hurricane is so versatile you never no what to expect from it ac's, arties, nano, tank, neut, could be anything. the rupture is the i win button for t1 cruisers fit right you cant lose 1v1, and its counterparts muninn and the broadsword are both wicked if you know how to use em. the broadsword being rated as the best hic or second best you can fly, and the muninn being well thats a minmattar secret if you havent figured it out keep looking. the vaga fast tackler and deadly to a tee. rapier best hot drop cyno ships availible if your dropping onto a pos, for some good ganks, as well as being one of the scarier recons out there. you got a station camper or a guy sitting on a low sec gate nano phoon and he aint there no more, n2m the machariel..... the thrasher which is a great sniping dessie and can alpha through inties and frigs. slieps are deadly to boat and we all know that. the only ships that really dissappoint me are the vargur, panther, maelstrom and to some degree the rapier and huginn and vaga after the speed nerf. they all lost that charm of if your fast enough to catch me your not the type of ship that wants to."
"needs moar support plx."
"i have to say that atraxerxes is right in some way. the way this is presented, mining will be hurt a lot and anyone in local wont have a clue whats going on on the other side. so, just because of mining, yeah, i dont support it cause mining is already hard right now cause..well mining ships sucks lol.. thats why you need a gang for defence and with what this is proposed..its going to get worsebut when i look at wormhole local and how it works...its awesome...always on the edge cause you need to be aware and alert. wow. i love it... for combat and all the rest i do support it. but i have say it again, only because of the mining part this is not a good idea."
"how do i"
"i would like to know what's the stance of the council, and ccp, regarding a single player using multiple trial accounts (4-5) trained to drakes and disruptors to hit target ships in high sec(suicide ganking), and then ditch the trial after 2-3 weeks and start with new ones, on constant rotation and thus never suffer security standing losses. is this a sort of cheating? is this an accepted practice?"
"recycling alts for the purpose of resetting your security standing is a bannable offense, last i heard."
"agreed. if you have reason to suspect this sort of activity is going on, file a petition so ccp can look into the matter."
"i have petitioned it, and i was told it would be investigated. that was almost a week ago, and i'm still tracking this \"crew\" and they're still active. maybe ccp is waiting for this batch of trials to be recycled. otherwise i don't know. they cannot say if actions will be taken or not, and if so, which actions. i mostly wanted to know if this was a tolerated practice and if i was wasting my time or not. but thanks."
"in theory it is prohibited, in practice it is hard to prove. your best bet probably is to et screenshots of the characters with very low standing and then, when biomassed, of the character search saying they don't exist.it should fall in the same category of evading concord. dong the crime but evading the consequences."
"the gm department is constantly overwhelmed, and thus can be slow, especially when it comes time to do investigations that take digging(like this one). i've seen petitions take more than a week to answer on simpler issues. sadly, you'll probably just have to wait. still, best of luck."
"/signed"
"qft. this is like asking for there to be a warning about freefor-ah ****.ok, this is like asking for ccp to delete freefor-ah ****."
"there already is a warning for this when you set your clone to a station that does not have cloning services or is a player controlled outpost where you may loose the ability to do such..."
"/support"
"/support"
"/supportconsidering the potential costs associated with failing to update your clone, this is an obvious oversight in the ui design. though i would ideally like to see an option to \"autoupdate\" your clone every time your clone sp retention < your current sps.to the naysayers - sure, its an easy thing to do and people should be doing it themselves... but in a game this complex and with so many things to keep tabs on, will a little user-friendliness really be that horrid? i honestly can't see why this shouldn't be an automated process. it's not like anyone would ever knowingly refuse to update their clone for cost reasons - and the penalty is quite severe for something that can happen purely by accident or due to exhaustion/anger/intoxication/etc."
"really good for people that tend to drink a bunch"
"thats pritty common on eve. should listin to privs comms some times"
"i posted the following in another beleaguered whine thread, and thought it might be good to liberated and made its own issue. in short, the demand for t2 will continue to increase as time goes on and pilots get older, but the supply of moon minerals (particularly the valuable r64s) at best remains constant and at worst decreases (due to blockades, etc). this is a unique mechanic in eve - the supply of any other material (ore, isk, construction blocks etc) can be increased arbitrarily to meet increasing demands on the economy.before i go any further, let me add that this is not an emo-rage thread against the \"evil 0.0 alliances\" nor an attempt to de-monopolize or otherwise interfere with their ability to fund their continued hold of sovereign nullsec. i simply wish to point out the problem inherent in the system and open up dialogue on possible solutions that would be of benefit to all (those evil alliance bastards included ). here are some possible suggestions of ways that the inevitable shortage of t2 materials might be avoided (will be updated with the ideas of others as they are suggested and discussed):1) lower the time/material costs of the alchemy system to make it a valid method of meeting market demand.currently, alchemy requires so many resources that it is hard to imagine it ever becoming a cost-effective supplement to the t2 market - so much so that by the time alchemy breaks even, the t2 market will have already entered severe shortfalls. reducing these costs would make it a more viable alternative.2) create a ship class capable of moon mining alongside a pos.part of the reason that minerals and named modules will never experience widespread shortfalls is that and increase in the cost of tritanium or arbalest heavy missile launchers encourages miners and mission runners to step up production of these items through mining more rocks or running more missions. such an option is not currently available to increase the amount of moon minerals that can be generated in a given time period.a ship class capable of mining moon minerals would allow pilots (most likely those in big alliances, since they have access to the moons) to increase production. one idea might be a super-cap version of the rorqual - and thus unable to be built outside sov nullsec - that can moon mine while providing fleet bonuses (or even system-wide bonuses) to mining while operational.3) create an \"alchemy style\" mechanic that allows t3 materials to be converted to t2 and vice versa.self-explanatory. has the disadvantage of removing alliance control over t2 manufacturing. additionally, the current form of alchemy in the game is already broken, and adding another may not help. the advantage would be normalizing the t2 and t3 markets in a way that allow either to compensate for shortages in the other.4) create an exploration site which allows specialized ships to mine various moon minerals. these would likely be restricted to lowsec/nullsec/wspace to encourage pilots to branch out beyond highsec space. might be designed to involve some player interaction beyond typical mining (e.g. mining moving comets, etc).5) create a method of converting asteroid minerals into moon minerals. this solution could either complement or replace the current alchemy mechanic. (solution proposed by wardecevading npccorpalt - whose full solution may be found here.please indicate your support and propose other ideas."
"4) provide an alternate source of t2 materials to take the hard cap off. the most common proposal i've seen for this would be \"comet mining\" - have objects that can be mined with special gear and refine into t2 materials. make them transient, and higher-difficulty, so that people don't just mine them into oblivion like they do with ice, but it'd provide a source not related to moons, while still leaving moons as the best and easiest source of t2 materials, similar to how bpos are for t2. still, supporting a fix to the ludicrous status quo."
"i'm actually leaning in the direction of hersch's proposal as fix. have sites you can scan down that could be exploited by ships with the right equipment.you could, as an aside, also only make them available in low and null sec or wh space, adding an inducement to get more characters out of high sec and into those areas where the risk is higher."
"that already exists iirc? isnt alchemy what you are looking for?"
"might possibly incorporate it into a probe-able site of some sort, rough idea, say a new spin on a salvaging site, where you interact with ruins of a moon mining facility, or possibly a new type of profession in the gravimetric vein in which a new type of miner is introduced with moon asteroids with varying elemental composition. one way or another, this is obviously something that could become a future issue."
"from the op"
"probe-able 'comets' which spawn in lowsec and 0.0 and can be ninja-mined for exotic materials for a few hours/days/weeks before they move on would at least be a tangible reason for money-makers to leave highsec for a time.so, support not necessarily for the op's suggested solutions (not because i disagree but because i have no strong opinion either way), but for something to address the problem that it raised and the ideas in the posts that followed."
"i dont know if its been proposed before but here goes:- current situation: you give access to do inventions/me/pe/building and he could cancel everything and probably get away... which is not good.what i would like is the person that installs the job for research/me/pe or building for example, is the only one to cancel it...no one else. makes sense to me.- current situation: if i give access to a pos in my corp, that corp member as access to every pos in the corp...technically.i would want that to be changed in a way that i want to have the option to give him access to a certain pos only...would make sense to me anyway.it occured to me when i wanted to do a wormhole and put a pos in and give access to that pos...then i realised it would be nice to give acces to only that pos. im aware i can do restrictions on arrays and equip in the pos...but still."
"i am not sure if this is the way to pursue these changes, but i'm definatley on board for a hard look at the way pos permissions are done, and how they are defined.supporting the general idea of reviewing/revising pos permissions.in regards to your specific proposals, i agree with number 2.number 1 is a little more problematic however. since my corp owns the pos, i (as a director) should be able to cancel the jobs in that lab, if i need to do so (for example, we need to move the bpo's out due to a wardec, or what have you). having them bound to just one character seems like it could cause more grief than it prevents."
"sorry about that. yes, thats what i meant with #1 of course. if your a director or a ceo or have a higher position in the corp you should be able to cancel it. for not the average joe out there..either for greifing, stealing or doesn't know squat what he's doing. thats the whole point of #1. thank you for noticing \"my lack of details\" on this."
"yes, installing jobs and canceling jobs should be separate roles. also, split up science and industry, and do a similar thing for corporate contracts and orders. not sure how practical #2 is though - do you want to be the guy who sets access to thousands of poses owned by an alliance with thousands of members? still, supporting for #1."
"i lol'd.and not supported, for the sheer ****tons of problems it would induce.do you get concorded for bumping something in high-sec?"
"if your goal is to kill the trading hubs, you are on the right track.but it will kill the server too and any bigh fleet."
"i dont agree with ships taking damage from bumping but a special ship for that would be pretty nice ... maybe a bc or cruiser sized vessel with a \"bumb field generator\" or something like that.. limit it to lowsec + 0.0 maybewould be a funny and usefull ship ... dont needs many guns or maybe even without guns it would be funits not easy to add new ships to the game cause they can make others useless.,, but a \"ram-cruiser\" would surely find its usersi was thinking if it is even room in game for new roleships but this one could actually work out..."
"it already exists - get a fleet stabber with bs mwd on it"
"since my previous proposal to fix ratting in lowsec and 0.0 was well received, i decided to offer my suggestion to do the same for mining.ill begin by stating my experience with mining is very limited, so if there are glaring problems with my approach, i hope you wont hold that against me. i did some jetcan mining for crokite in an osprey to purchase my first battleship, and havent mined anything since. mining today isnt what it was in 2006. back then, if you had access to an abc ore in 0.0, near a refinery, you could make good isk. i recall selling my refined zydrine for something around 4500 isk/unit or more.what happened to mining?simply put, the drone regions happened. ccp added several new regions with npcs who had no bounties, but dropped copious amounts of alloys that refine into high end minerals. after some tinkering with npc goods, t1 modules, and other things we arrived at the situation we find ourselves in today:1. the most profitable ore to mine in empire space (including lowsec) is veldspar. the only exception is possibly some individuals and corporations with multiple accounts who have long term purchase contracts for ice products.2. low sec ores, aside from ice, are worthless.3. 0.0 ores, aside from bistot and arkanor, are mined only sparingly in light of the risk vs. reward value.veldspar is worth roughly 100 isk/m3, while gneiss, dark ochre amd spudomain are closer to 150-160. a whopping 50% improvement for mining in 0.0, and all the risk and difficulty that entails. with the price crash of zydrine, im not sure why (or if) anyone mines crokite anymore, except that it might be more profitable than ratting.simple approach to a solutionmy goal is to make lowsec and 0.0 mining more profitable in terms of isk/hour, considering the risk and difficulties involved. the simplest solution would be to nerf drone region npcs, give them bounties and drops like other rats, and call it a day. however, i assume ccp had a reason for creating them the way they are. weve also seen a number of alliances develop the space in those regions (dropping outposts, forming rental alliances, etc) based on what the rats drop. to make a wholesale change along those lines now would be extremely unfair to the residents of those regions, regardless how many might welcome it.in order to make lowsec and 0.0 ores, i propose two changes to their refine tables:1. add large amounts of low end and small amounts of mid end minerals to their refines  trit and pye for the most part, and perhaps smaller amounts of mexallon, isogen, and nocxium. this serves two purposes: a) it makes the ore more valuable and b) it provides another source of those materials making lowsec and 0.0 more independent from refined highsec mission drops.2. add very small amounts of valuable moon minerals to their refines. for ores like jaspet, and hedbergite this could be as low as 0 or 1 dysprosium and promethium. for gneiss, dark ochre, and spudomain, it could be 1 to 3 per refine. for the abc ores, perhaps as many as 3 to 5. this will have the effect of minimizing the monopoly on high end moons, currently enjoyed by basically two power blocs in eve, without nerfing the value of those moons entirelyim not really sure what to do about mercoxit. my understanding is it spawns alongside the abc ores, but isnt typically mined. im not sure it needs to be changed.i dont propose changing the highsec ores. if ccp thought it was unabalancing having people mine basically only one ore in highsec, they would have done something about it by now."
"now, as far as the amounts referenced in part 1, above  here are my thoughts. when i say large amounts, i mean it: 1000-3000 trit and 500-1000 pye for lowsec ores. three times that for poorer 0.0 ores, and ten times that for abc. make all these ores provide a balance of materials. some can be higher for one than another. since entire regions are typically limited to one of the abc ores, they should get good amounts of anything  helping to balance out the present, large disparity between crokite and arkanor rich regions.as far as adding moon materials in, that was my idea to compare to ccps plans to (possibly) boost alchemy and rumors they intend to nerf moon mining. having valuable systems based solely on their moon minerals isnt necessarily a bad thing, in and of itself. it adds some variety to the game where you would otherwise only shoot pos that serve as logistics routes or station system sov claiming. you can take or leave my suggestion about adding small amounts of r64 moon minerals. the bulk of my proposal is to add low end and mid end minerals to ores that people either a) dont mine at all or b) mine with much lower frequency than they did previously. the addition of moon minerals is an extra plus in my view, and isnt critical to my proposal either way.for highsec denizens, dont worry that refined mission loot will become worthless overnight with these changes. they wont.. the amounts i propose to add to these ores are infinitesimal when you look at the mineral requirements of capital and supercapital ships. people will (and perhaps should) still need to import low and mid ends to lowsec and 0.0 to build these ships.at most, my changes will help lowsec and 0.0 industrialists in ammunition, module, and ship production, decreasing their reliance on highsec mission loot and veldspar."
"the only problem with this is that veldspar isn't really the king of empire space anymore, eith the recent price crash in tritanium. i haven't looked at the numbers in about a week, but currently anything that will give a good yield of mexallon is the ore to get, with plagioclase seeming to be top of the heap (at least for where i normally mine in empire).all of that aside, i agree with your overall concern which is that it's simply not worth going into low and nullsec to mine for most people. i don't know that i exactly like the idea of tinkering with the refine rates of the various ores - there should still be some give and take between the various regions. what has happened, and should not ahve been allowed to is that empire has become largely self sufficient. there's really no pressing need to go into null sec for the really rare ores, or at least not enough of one to drive more people into doing it, given the inherent risks.at any rate, i'm throwing in my support to the more general idea of re-incentivizing nullsec and low sec space somehow."
"remove t1 loot from mission , that should help you."
"i have one concern about your proposal to base low-ends in high-end rock. look at every important production system ccp has implemented other than t1 minerals - t2 moons, t1 salvage, t2 salvage, and t3 salvage. all of them suffer from atrocious problems with bottlenecking. the materials drop in a mostly-fixed pattern, they get used in a different mostly-fixed pattern, and there's a handful of mats(armor plates, melted nanoribbons, dysprosium, etc.) that act as the limiting reagent for the entire production chain. t1 has never suffered from this problem too badly(there were some old-school issues with zydrine and some more recent ones with tritanium, but they're minor by comparison), because t1 ore is discrete. if there's a shortage of trit, mine veld. that's what everyone has spent the last year doing, of course, but the more important point is that they could. if there's a shortage of cap consoles you can sort of adjust your production by doing amarr-space missions, but that's a high barrier to entry for a fairly minor change overall. and if there's a shortage of dysprosium, there is nothing whatsoever that can be done about it. this is why i find it so hilarious when ccp changes t3 drop rates to clear out bottlenecks - it's not actually possible to eliminate bottlenecks under their system, just to move them around. the point of all this rambling is that you'd be changing the advantage that t1 production has over t2 right now. if it's impossible to produce a mega-heavy ore without pumping out low-ends, then you go from a system where production can shift to cover needs to one where it can't, which leads to bottlenecks and the type of ineffective flailing we're seeing as ccp tries to correct the problems with their production systems that should have been spotted by an intern with a calculator inside an hour back when they were being developed. as such, i can't really endorse a proposal to homogenize minerals. creating a low-end-heavy ore for 0.0, maybe, but adding low-ends to existing 0.0 ore, no."
"t2 hardwiring are ganglink implants and omegas.secondly getting implants in 0.0 is vey easy once you have an agent to do missions for.currently i get 10k lp a mission from my agents per a level 4.however there are nothing else to buy buy implants... oh and crappy ammo.faction ships do not sell well (in a high frequency) thus implants are the only real source of lp income.so before you all start saying great idea goto 0.0 and learn how that works if you do this 0.0 agents will be redundant."
"-double posted-"
"it has been 6 years now and few months since we started playing this awesome game, well few of us at least.(not counting beta ;-d)and for at least 4 years i have been cursing how it is.! well the things i would like to see improved.i would like to see few changes that wont make that big of a difference to the game play as it is today other then make it more exciting.1. overview.i suggest that on overview wont show the names of the pilots. ccp has been talking about making fights last longer, well this would make that happen in bigger fleet fights at least a bit longer and more exciting since broadcasting might make it harder because of lag, until players start making new ways to call targets faster. other reasons why names should be removed is to protect certain players that some might call \"eve celebs\" or even the fleets main target callers and so on. this would also make the killmails more exciting since you won't know who you where shooting until he dies or you see his capsule name that tend to show your name right away.i could keep on explaining the next 2 pages with how it will probably change the game play but i think this will do with overview.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.2. local chat, coop with overview change.this i have cursed allot and since they don't want to remove the names, so i thought about something to change it without hurting the local chat exploits.so how about make the names of the pilots that are either neutral or hostile to be blank, local will be like it is but you see -/neutral guys with no names and no pictures. and if you right click on them to get info you will simply only see their cooperation's and alliance information but the char info is not possible.if they talk in local their names will only appear there and you could right click on them there to send them mail and so on. so we wont get harraset for our game play and so on. who needs to talk to your enemy anyway!. ;-dso if the guy likes to hang around talking in local he kind of gives away who he is and what he might be flying if he is the only hostile in local.other then we see his name in local and if you had good memory you instantly know what he is flying(well it depends where you are, kind of hard to explain).please visit your user settings to re-enable images.3. buddy list.well since i mentioned the 2 things above this whould be involved with these changes.i would like to see buddy list removed but thats kind of silly, so why havent it been changed into like any instant message programs that we use. (e.g msn, skype, icq and so on.)"
"general suggestion:1 proposal per posting. that makes it easier for people to support your proposal. otherwise you might miss support when people dont like a part."
"thinking about it, i doubt your proposal for the overview would change much.the suggestion for local is just stupid.the buddy list thing sounds nice but space is limited in eve. so it should be an optional feature.sum up: not supported."
"this all is one change.like a train wagon wont work very well without the train it self."
"hehe... well thats perfect then isent it? overview wont change much so a change like that is a win win for all.local give to much information for the lazy players or every players, you see a hostile join your local and you see his name and since you have fought him few times before you instantly know what he's up to. and the other way around the enemy is frustrated that you might know what he's up to.buddy list must be lagging the server. just imagen 50% of the chr's ingame have 218 known titan pilots on theyr list + few friends and enemys."
"i don't get it..... the overview part at least.overview doesn't show pilot names already. it shows ship name. for pvp people rename their ships as a matter of standard practice...."
"the overview shows you the names unless you edited your overview settings to not show it. if you look at the first picture you notice that on the left side of the picture. then on the right side i have edited the picture.maybe you are talking about the directional scanner. in there it never tell's us the name of the pilots."
"not supported cause u will damage fleet fight severly and make spies useless,... i like calling the fc's primary"
"thx for making my point even stronger.thats one of the things that need to be protected, ccp mentioned once they like to see longer battles...surely all fc's will fear this change will happen.. if they can't take out the target callers and fc's then there is a bigger chance they will lose or more losses.and when you mean this will damage the fleet severly.. do you mean more losses ;-d.. i'm sure thats just for the better good."
"not supported, nothing is truly wrong."
"i do not support making the game harder to play, so #1 and #3 are out. for #2, i'll say what i've said to every other change-local thread in existence - i will support changing local when the other intel tools are improved enough to make it possible."
"it can't generate a covert cyno, so that wouldn't help. and a tractor isn't much of a utility mod for covert fleets - what are you tractoring?"
"doesn't matter what they were, you were making it sound like using a ship for something other than it was intended was somehow horrible and wrong.i just pointed out two common ships that are used for other things.and 'kid' ? :) srsly?lets not bring out the internet tough guy, just go hide under your bridge or whatever it is trolls do.-skan"
"you heard me.... you obviously do not understand the ships nor do you know how to use them properly if your making such ridiculous notions of how they should be used.i suggest you go back and do your homework before you make off the wall suggestions.they have a very specific niche....and are quite good at there job... stop trying to make it an issue that they cant do what you want them to do.herch - i fit a tractor for the purposes of grabbing cans in certain situations.. but i rarely ever need that second slot.i wouldn't even use it for probing... if i wanted to do that i should be using a cov ops frigate or a force recon ship at that rate."
"the prowler is *the* ship to use for w-space exploration as it has plenty of cargo capacity and can fit both a probe launcher and a cloak. all the rest of the blockade runners can't do that. buff the other three."
"and that would be all it could do! no weapons... no drones... just look and run and hide.not very useful to me in that aspect.cov-ops frigate at that rate would be better.but ok... whatever floats your boat."
"why would should one be vastly better than the rest there? a few less slots in other places, but the rest of the races all play the same..oh, and my homework? i did it, and read up to see if anyone else had suggested it, couldn't find it, and since no one made a post about it, i'm going to assume no one did. i even asked if it was covered before.try again mr. troll.-skan"
"asking why and flying the ship are 2 entirely different things smartass.they don't have alot of room to fit things as it is... its just a \"stealth cargo can\" at best.turning it into a salvager would work but you wouldn't have the cov ops cloaking fitted thats for sure... unless you wantted to fly up to each-and-every-wreck.even with defense bonuses... once you get shot at... your likely to die anyway...as i've said... along with other pilots... they are meant to run.. and escape... not get shot at.the fact the prowler has a 2nd high slot is likely to compensate for the lack of mid/low slots that other ships have.i also have amarrian transport ships as well... they tend to haul a bit more than the prolwer... but only 1 high slot... does this mean it's not fair? hardly... it's its own niche.if the prowler is just that unusual... its likely some ccp dev that did it for some odd reason.point being... this isn't an issue... and its not earth shattering to say the least."
"different =! better. the prowler is the only br that can't carry a packaged cruiser hull; in return, it's the only one to get a utility high. seems reasonable to me."
"the ship would have to be very valuable to risk paying a ransom. since there is no reason for a pirate to honor it, there's no reason for anyone to pay it."
"besides realism, whats your point or goal behind this ?reduce pvp = your in a good direction since you want to remove insuranceincrease pvp = nope, bad ideapersonally, i dont like it because of the realism but there is something wrong by given an insurrance to a person that blew someone up in high sec cause he felt like it... suicide, looting, or whatever the cause is...besides that..no its fine.so in all, i cant support your idea"
"removing the npc insurances would allow player corporations to offer insurance services / contracts.eve is about player control, therefore its allways good to remove npc controlled systems from the game and enable the players to replace them."
"free insurance @ 80% for first 6 months.after that welcome to the harsh world of eve.isk faucet of insurance props up mineral prices and makes all ships/mods more expensive.i would prefer cheaper ships and mods to the artificially high prices we pay today because of insurance.insurance rewards the careless.time for it to go."
"what the op did not get, is that insurance is used in multiple ways including minerals price control.the wrong part of insurance is that in certain periods it allows for free ships, when people should always have to pay something for a loss (yes beyond fittings and rigs) as deterrent for sucking. or as deterrent for spamming zero cost ships vs expensive weak ships (want to suicide 300m worth of stuff? then afford 30m loss in the ship + 20-30 in fittings, not *zero*, it is not eve karma)."
"dibs on concord"
"issue:now that we can rig small ship cheaply (rifters).its about time for a slight remap of hac (thinking of vagabond here).propblem we have now is extremely fast well tanked rifters to catch the vaga and few well tanked rifters can take one do pritty easly. as vaga's don't have the extra slot needed to put on a web to slow the frigs down into tracking speedgang could consist of1 mwd rifter 150mm ac's, nuet/rocket, scram, web, 400mm plate, aux power core, od ii, x3 trimarksx2 ab rifters same setup except od ii for gyromwd rifter as inty x2 ab rifters to combat if the vaga pilot has a scram.bascily frigs can get under the tracking of even 180mm long enough to take a vaga pritty week tankissue 2:same also applys for muninn (not tested) no more long single shot frig popping trimarks take care of that.that is just a guess i haven't took my muninn out for ages.this is just an idea not proposal give me your thoughts"
"adapt or die?your vaga should easily outrun plated/trimarked rifter."
"solution: introduce extra large shield extenders: ~2x the hp, fitting requirements, and sig increase of an lse ii. it's pretty silly that lse iis are the only worthwhile shield buffer mods for everything from t1 cruisers to battleships..."
"medium shield extender rock on frigates.and my covops/sb got a small shield extender for the gtfo moments in radar sites"
"don't expect a solo vaga to beat a gang of frigs designed to kill it. i don't see a problem here."
"maybe with the proper implants, x2 od ii, x1 nano ii, 10mn mwd iibut you looking at about 3.5kms on thoes rifters."
"the vagabond has 4 midslots. what is stopping you from fitting a web in one of them?or have i misunderstood and this is just a 'waaa i got ganked i thought my nano-hac was risk free pvp :( :( :( :( :(' thread?"
"multiple ships beating a single one noooo not in my eve!"
"so what you're saying is:\"please make my ship invulnerable; kthxbai\""
"all i have to say is that is more money for ccp they want the money thats it :pat least we know they have loads to spend on us then :pand id rather not get credit card and be with all the crap because people think that others will abuse paypal, so what if they do its there idea peaple still get isk for selling the gtc's ccp will still get the money so what is the problem :p"
"my interbus corp standings finally reached 10. yet i've had no opportunities to improve the interbus faction standings. that is to say that no storyline missions have ever been offered.i've accumulated 646656 lp and would like to cash some of that out. yet i've found no interbus lp store.i'm interested in running interbus missions for the best interbus agents (i.e. level iv, quality 20) but their sol: w6h6-k, con: f-8dmx, reg: j7hz-f destination is unreachable.that's the gist of my latest bug report. in summary, the interbus corp is not currently suitable for mission running. i wonder why it's in the game at all.-time to move on.edit... bug report results for \"83545 title: interbus: standings/storyline, lp store; agents\"1. a new issue has been created in the defect tracking system.2. bug hunters concur that agents are not reachable.3. the bug report is being passed on to the developers."
"you know, a simpler solution to that problem is just if csm members update the status in their own sponsored threads in the assembly hall, with a link to the meeting minutes that the issue was contained in. i see old csm-voted-on threads being bumped up again all the time, and people don't realize the issue is already done."
"mazz, i used to do that, but when your reply isn't the first or last post in the thread, people post in it anyway. th eonly way to stop it getting bumped is to ask for it to get locked, which only helps when the issue has actually been implemented into the game."
"maybe there can be a bit of coding done to allow csm members to lock only the threads of issues that have been raised, after having the final word on the issue, in that forum section only.i guess nobody liked csm having mod powers but if the mod actions were logged and there are very specific rules as to what can be locked, then there is very little potential for abuse.besides csm not having the ability to organize the discussion happening in the domain they are supposed to be running is absolutely silly. limited mod powers are definitely called for, within our domain and safeguarded to prevent abuse by anyone.it's also far easier then implementing a whole new system for voting issues up and down which wont be a whole lot more used or accessible then the current system, with these tweaks"
"i'd say there is an opportunity for ccp to really show exceptional appreciation towards the playerbase by, how should i say, actually creating a functioning player operated middle-hands to deviate the development of this game into new spheres.i endorse this possibility."
"i had though of this, than realised that they might already be here, but there like camera drones-invisible to us. they could be how we pull stuff into our holds our put it out to cans that are already in space."
"hmm, would an instant belt cleaning ddd be too much?"
"yes yes yes yes yes! it'll give me a reason to return home!"
"signed."
"would not sign up for anyone else, but chribba is to eve what cheese is for pizza."
"i fully support giving chribba his titan in amarr, or heck rename the system after him."
"i endorse this suggestion."
"1.0"
"yes, brighten them up."
"very pain in the assishsupported"
"this is a stupid suggestion.in the autopilot settings, there already is an option that says:\"prefer less secure - stay in 0.0 to 0.4 where possible\""
"are you daft?what exactly do you think this means then?might not be the best wording to express the idea, but since you're so smart you should've figured that out."
"this is a stupid answer, there is no option that lets you avoid, say, systems with security above .7"
"did you play around with the \"security penalty\" slider?"
"yes i have, and that's all it is....a slider. i never use it cause it seems a bit difficult to get to the right setting. idk how the f a 100 point scale somehow determines what security system my autopilot setting decides to send me through"
"supporting a more customizable direction-finder program in eve."
"yes i have played with the directional slider, and it doesn't work the way one would expect it to. it still treats all high sec as a lump hi sec, and all low sec as a lump lowsec. and there is no avoid 0 sec option, which, if you are in low/null sec very often, you will notice a much different play style. i'm not asking to cut out all possibility of stupidity, nor did i loose a ship in high sec, but i think it's odd that it goes one way and not the other. not to mention people forgetting about 0 sec altogether."
"did you? it didn't do much difference last time i tried it.the warning message proposal is a bit silly, but fixing the autopilot setting would be neat so supporting that."
"and you point is?say wait can't shield tankers do this already but more efficiently?hull tanking is win bring it back seeing as a max of 60% resists isn't much :3"
"here's what i'd like to eventually see and i say eventually because it would be a massive undertaking. *some kind of player housing*station agent missions*the addition of clothing/armor/weapons and the required skill books to upgrade them.*finally have a reason for trading mindflood, crystal egg, or drop... they boost a skill temporarily but not without some kind of negative impact"
"where is the priority list?"
"no wonder there is so many on the list"
"oops, its the one posted. i left off the priority numbers but its sorted in ascending order by priority (so the first item on the list has the highest priority)"
"that's their nose's skin.."
"five months after the original post, and this topic keeps on bouncing up. what does that tell you, ccp?"
"why was this even changed?!?"
"ccp was having its period?"
"bring this back i'm in caps soon!"
"you can make the fitting difficult, the range suck the launchers expensive - but please make rockets do great dps on small to medium targets!"
"i support this as well."
"sounds like a great idea until a spy creates manual bookmarks from the corp list and sells them to someone. bm's are server side for a reason, as well as the laborious act of copying them..."
"what is the difference between the current situation? expect that the act of copying them manually will be skipped. there will never be a way of an secure bookmark management published in this game. and i don't it anyway. not here...edit: you don't have to use such a system for confidential bookmarks btw. it would just be very nice from ccp to just give us the option."
"i so agree with nerevar dwemorwe have the same probelm in our corp"
"signed. change the scanner back to the way it was."
"signed, really bad change ccp..."
"yes please remove the 2 second scanner delay"
"/signedthe consequences are far more detrimental than the original problem."
"unboobify scanner please"
"signed."
"/signedbut even further. they should make it auto-repeat with a 10 second cycle like many other modules.then the scannerspammers would all be balanced and locked-down to results every 10 seconds.and with only 1 click to turn it on or off!!"
"the two-second scanner delay destroys this tool's ability to narrow down targets. please reconsider this change."
"signed."
"i agree...change it back, please."
"/signedhow many pilots, from the online gamer are using the scanner at the same time? i think under 5%"
"/agreed"
"signed"
"yes!"
"i am extremely offended by this change."
"way too long of a delay. .5 might be acceptable."
"signed"
"2 seconds is just too much.i could probably live with 1 sec. but remove the notification - change the scan button instead: like a module icon with a cycle-circle-outline-thingyedit: and if stuff like dictor bubbles, probes etc could be selected per overview settings, we wouldn't need to use unfiltered scans - go fix your shortcomings before nerfing the entire game"
"/signed"
"supported"
"it really is 'not good'"
"supported"
"yeah this is horrible."
"supported. it bogs down scanning a lot."
"signed"
"31 pages...and still no response, ccp, i love your game, but for the love of god change this back, or at least post to say your changing it back"
"delicious pvp tears are even more delicious than carebear tears"
"/signed"
"ccp don't respond to csm issue threads..."
"/signed"
"/signed it's not that hard to outrun a 2 second timer tring to scan someone down."
"ccp fix it, slipping stupid nerfs into patches is about the dumbest way to do buisness."
"agreed, 2 secs is just too long./signed"
"/signed"
"signed, undo please!"
"2 seconds delay is too much."
"ccp: some of your ships cover 28au in those 2 seconds in case you didn't know!yet another carebear boost.supported"
"signed. it doesn't sound like it at first, but 2 seconds is a ridiculously large time span when trying to hunt someone down."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"stupid idea, ccp."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"please get rid of this ccp this nerf truly sucks..."
"/signed"
"i propose that we all qq once this thread gets to 1000 supports! keeping in mind i see some people who have said they supported but forgot to click the support button.i already supported earlier"
"even jita can look hellish on certain days. signed."
"/signed"
"/me signed"
"fix't."
"/signed"
"supporting and tiny bit of improvement - i hope this includes bughunters aswellreading comprehension is at an all time low and ritalin wont help there."
"bump.never gonna give you up."
"never gonna let you down.read through some of the stories in here, and am once again posting here to add my support."
"comfirming, titans canhummm can bo bridge to non-covert cynos...?"
"i don't understand this line of \"reasoning\". ccp is the \"god\" of the eve universe, they can do whatever the hell they want to the game. if you think eve is some kind of ultra-realistic economic simulator, you're mistaken. sure, it's complex for an mmo, but that's not saying much. if you were to imagine real moons, across multiple star systems, do you really think each moon would contain an unlimited supply of only certain kinds of minerals? or would they each have a ratio of most minerals, with some moons having more of some kinds than others?so, if you want to bust out with the \"supply and demand\" stuff, let's go ahead and talk about redesigning the moon mining system to give us a more accurate representation of a real market supply.i'd vastly prefer to see moon minerals come out of each moon in ratios of lots of minerals, that changed over time, so that instead of these \"capture the flag\" type static points that everyone wants to hold, the situation is far more dynamic and unpredictable.then we can talk about \"supply and demand\"."
"simple solution is to download the greasemonkey plugin for firefox and grab the caod script. you can ignore users, corps and alliances, which puts the tools in your hands and not ccp's."
"if that's the case then i love this ideaand re: the poster immediately above- if you fly amarr and use crystals that can break you need to be supplying spares anyways, unless you plan to fly with fresh crystals only. if this idea is implemented in a way that doesn't alter the average lifespan of a crystal then the change to gameplay will be minimal."
"anything to get over the issues damaged crystals create. if you happen to have a reasonable number of amarr ships and ammo managing moving them between characters is just such a massive pain."
"so instead of a gradual decline that is easily predictable, you want a system which i can't predict, since it relies only on a single roll of a dice. i can't really think of a more horrible change. the difference might be insignificant from a statistical viewpoint, but from my gameplay perspective it would be a mojor change for the worse.the issue of damaged crystals is annoying, but i'll take it over this any day of the week. find a better solution to it."
"i find it absolutely surprising how overstated the importance of the \"1000 shot\" average is in this thread.yes, this would solve the stacking issue. however, this comes at the great expense of the charge's reliability in comparison to other weapons. remember, there is no random chance that all of a sudden your missile launcher will lose a few thousand missiles from your hold.under the current system, there is a certain understanding that your crystal will last at least a certain amount of time. this allows for the combat pilot to effectively plan for scenarios, rest assured that the crystal, if new, will last throughout the engagement. if it's an extended action, then he can plan for a spare set of crystals, much like any other pilot would bring more ammo to an anticipated long fight.i could go on and on explaining the significance of this proposal, and the fallacy of the assertion that because it's still on average 1000 shots, it's close enough to the way it was before.instead, i decided to actually program a demonstration at this link.this flash program runs through 50 crystals in succession, recording how many shots it can take until it breaks. the line graph below the numerical data represents the amount of shots taken per crystal. notice how high and low the spikes are for the shatter method, and how even and predictable the current method is.click the red circle to run the tests again.which would you rather have to deal with, knowing this information?me? i'd rather have a predictable life span, and deal with the minor inconvenience."
"even if i had no other reasons to dislike this idea, this post would be more than enough to say no way.sadism shouldn't be the driving force for changes in a game.also, i simply do not trust random chances enough. we can see with invention how streaks of bad luck can cause problems.i see no reason to keep a dozen backup crystals all the time, just in case several in a row decide to shatter on first shot.which one would have to assume, because otherwise you're without ammo and no means to get new ones."
"yes one of the stated cons is you would need to carry spares.i dont know what happens currently when a crystal wears out, i dont take out badly damaged crystals and never live long enough to find out :)for grouped weapons the calculation would be altered.so 5 guns grouped would have a 1/200 chance of losing a single crystal each shot based on a crystal that has a 1/1000 chance normally.the odds may be better than 1/200 | 1/1000 as that was a number i used as an example.does anyone know how many shots you normally get from a fresh crystal ?on the issue of stop firing i would support the idea that if there are spares in the hold , a spare crystal would reload automagically and guns would continue firing.so from a programing point of view , it would be simpler to comsume a spare crystal from the cargo hold if available. if no spare then obviosly the gun would no longer fire.a grouped weapon of 5 with 1/200 chance would turn to a grouped weapon of 4 with a 1/250 chance etc.on the grounds of cost , due to extra crystals being carried / lost in combat.if the runs per batch on the blueprint were doubled this could compensate for extra costs."
"you cant predict pvp. you are far more likelly to die due to the unpredicatable nature of pvp before you run out of crystals.ecm = major randomevery time you fire your guns the damage is random.from a gameplay perspective all you need to do is carry spares."
"very nice program.how come the bottom graph is not completely flat ? is that due to volatility ?i ran the test a lot of times, it looks fine to mei think the lowest total shots i saw was 37k and more often than not the shatter method gave more shots than the current method.what happens in your simulation to damaged crystals ?how about programing it in a way that means a player takes out 50 crystals with random amounts of damage from 0 to 100% , while the shatter method only ever uses new crystals ?or better still how about an input that allows us to specify the maximum amount of damage we allow for current crystals and then looks at crystal usage over many encounters."
"i wonder if removing the randomness from volatility will help with the lag situation..so, amarr people: what's more inconvenient, having a crystal break more randomly as per the above guy's graph, or having damaged crystals that can't go on contract or be repaired or stacked?"
"i'd rather have the damaged crystals as they will continue to fire until worn out.randomly occurring or not.. you can't possibly predict random occurrences of shattering crystals.people will throw a fit about them... particularly the ones who assume there won't be an issue.at least the current mechanics are predictable..."
"absolutely incorrect.ecm's randomness is actually much more predictable. without getting into the ugly details, a cursory glance at the system shows that it is indeed manageable through skills, analysis of strengths etc.yes. this is due to volatility. the top graph fires crystals with a 1/1000 chance of being destroyed, and tallies the total shots. the high peaks and low troughs are important, especially the low dips in the graph. unpredictable, and importantly, unreliable. this is unreasonable for something as mundane as ammo. also notice how in zero instances does the current method result in crystals that produce less than 100 shots. the suggested method allows for very low yield crystals. (plenty of times yielding 1 shot before dying)good catch there. again, look at how consistent the current system is. the relatively flat line means you can reliably plan for it. this is extremely important for something as basic as ammo. the current suggestion is akin to having a mwd being able to randomly lower your maximum speed instead of making you go lolfast.damaged crystals are accounted for. the bottom graph fires, calculating the chance for a crystal to be damaged, adding this damage until the crystal is destroyed, and then starting again until it goes through 50 crystals.i thought about adding input to change some of the variables, but i found the exercise to be meaningless for the purposes of this demonstration.i hope i helped you understand what's going on here."
"i ran your program 20 times here are the results from the number of total shots53286 5042249818* 5010346278 4930455105 4996747523 5010660728 4933451380 4962049348 4989361428 5013851838 4957554817 5063359406 4900852012 4946345387 4995954598 4850852187 5052850869 4967252268 4947739815 5095631808 505711019899 997237the left column is shatter chance methodthe right column is the current method.as you can see the shatter chance method actually averaged out at more shots per crystal than the current method.the * denotes any run where a crystal shattered on its first shot.this only happened once in 1000 crystals.this is hardle surprising as the crysals tested had a 1/1000 chance of shattering on each shot.this is pretty much as expected, crystal usage has not changed significantly.what is really important is the effect it has on pvp and what you need to analyse is the chance of a ship runing out of crystals in combat before it is destroyed.lets take a crusader as an example on a solo roam.crusader fits 4 guns. so lets take 8 crystals.shatter chance per shot = 1/250 with grouped weapons.lets say it takes 50 shots on average to destroy an opponent if your solo.on averagethis means you can kill 15 opponents before your down to your last spare crystal.you are gonna be droppin off loot and reloading spare crystals much more often than every 15 kills and very few players manage a 15:1 ratio solo.per fight ( what is the chance of me losing firepower due to crystal loss )assuming 50 shots to kill an opponent.chance of losing any 1 crystal = 1/250 * 50 = 1/5chance of losing 5 crystals and therefore being down on firepower = 1/5 * 1/5 * 1/5 * 1/5 * 1/5 = 1/3125so you would need to rack up 1,500 kills before there is a 50% chance that you might suffer once from total crystal failure.if you dont like those odds then taking 2 spare crystals per gun puts the chance of firepower loss at 1 in 2,000,000 encountersnow to work out the isk cost impact to pvp of a crytal shatter method. - cost of losing spare crystals + profit from extra crystals recovered from other player wrecks + profit from not having to discard badly damaged crystals + profit from the extra time you have to rat ( due to not having to sort out badly damaged crystals from one that are still ok )."
"i very rarely have a ship that last a lifespan of a set of crystals :) usually it dies before that so for me this would add an additional cost overhead. i have no problems affording it, but it would add to the cost of my standard t1 cruiser fits.also, if we take the 5 grouped lasers, with the proposed system there would be a 0.5% chance that i'll lose firepower on a shot. since weapon groups cannot work with 4 crystals in a 5 group it would stop firing? if the system was changed so that my 5 lasers were able to fire with 4 crystals only, while maintaining the shatter chance i would be okay with it, otherwise not."
"again, you only bother to look at, and analyze one set of data. there is a good reason i showed all the other data in my program.yes, you have the possibility of more shots overall. however, you can plan for *nothing* in the new system. your pros and cons are small instances, and meaningless compared to the con of suddenly losing good crystals because of a dice roll. the reality that the program conveys, and through my own work on it (100s of iterations),is that there is inherent unreliability, in a part of the game that is supposed to be the most reliable.any other pilot can tell how much longer he has to fight, based on how much ammo he has. there is no legitimate reason to deny the amarr that. a better solution is needed.the demo program for those who missed it."
"please share the \"good reason\" for the other data as i am missing that bit.only 2 things matter as far as i can see.1) how much use will i get from a crystal on average. ( this is unchanged as per your demo )2) how many crystals do i need to carry to prevent total crystal loss.taking along a spare set means i get to kill 15 ships on average before i need to go get more crystals.and i can allways carry t1 as an emergency reserve.i only wish my kill:loss ratio was anywhere near this :)you cant plan for anything in this game anyway what are you going on about ?no pilot knows how many kills he/she will get before his/her ship is destroyed.no missile users \"knows\" how much ammo to takeno hybrid user \"knows\" how much ammo to takeno projectile user \"knows\" how much ammo to take.no laser user \"knows\" how much ammo to take in either scenario.the numbers i quoted you demonstate that even with a 1/1000 chance which is probably on the high side you only need to take 1 spare crystal for each gun.if you want to remove any possiblity of it ever happening then take 2 spares per gun. why is that a big deal ?your crystals are gonna die with certainty with either method.its really not as big a deal as you seem to think.as demonstrated carrying spares means you will lose a few more when your ship is destroyed thats it on the drawback front.it is highly unliklly you will run out of crystals in combat and you can always carry t1 as a fallback.incorrect , you just look at how many spares you have left. once your down to 1 spare its time to go reload.no one is trying to deny the amarr anything.what i am trying to do is get backing for a proposal that will fix the amarr ammo problem.the pluses massive outway the drawbacks.( the drawback and the only drawback is as stated 1,000 times now is you will need to carry spares )no more hangars / cans full off half dead crystals that dont get used or get trashed because they dont have enough life left in them.no more ships that cant be contracted.resale of second hand crystals becomes possible.i killed this guy last night. twice in fact.i got 6 scorch small. i cant use t2 atm !how can i sell them for profit ?i cant contract and i cant sell on market cause there busted and i cant rep them.if you want to take about being denied things , how about all the pilots who get a kill and get denied profit because they cant resell t2 laser ammo ?"
"bobbeh, you didn't mention artillery (or maybe i need to read it again). the tempest is very poor with artillery, and maybe only slightly subpar with autocannons, depending on the circumstances. from the thread in ships n mods:i like the idea of a highest-dps longrange weapon @ 152km, increasing artillery's damage mod but leaving its range alone. it may make fleets think twice about engagement ranges, if they have to leave out their highest dps ships to engage at 180 or 200. i haven't looked at how it performs vs other weapons systems with close range ammo, but at least increasing the damage on tremor may fix artillery in general.i feel that the maelstrom performs fine compared to its competition, at least with autocannons, but the tempest really needs something. how about a marauder-like bonus? a base 100% bonus to projectiles, and drop either the rof or damage bonus, depending on what you want out of it. give it 4 turrets, 6 highs. with the rof bonus left, it will have slightly more turret dps - the same as the maelstrom. with the damage bonus left, it will have the same dps it had (a bit less than the maelstrom's), only with much higher volley damage. the mael will still have a tanking bonus and superior slot layout for tanking, as well as an extra heavy drone than on the 'pest, so give it a 5 or 10% falloff bonus as its new 2nd bonus and call it a day.---there are many ways you can go about fixing artillery, but artillery is broken, no matter how you look at it. and, while you can come up with some very circumstantial fits where the tempest isn't flat-out bad, it certainly doesn't shine. the tempest does less damage from guns and has a smaller dronebey, has less ehp, less room for fittings and no tanking bonus like the maelstom has. in return it gets a small speed and agility increase, and 2 spare highslots. you might say \"well, those highs are great for armor rr\" - you'd be right, but armor tanking a pest makes it give up its already poor damage to have near the tank of other ships in its class. i don't know that it needs anything drastic, but i feel strongly that something like a 25% or 50% falloff bonus would not unbalance this ship. that, on top of fixing artillery (one way or another) may be enough."
"to put it more simply, i want artillery's damage mod increased and the tempest to get the vargur's t1 bonuses:minmatar battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large projectile turret rate of fire and 10% bonus to large projectile turret falloff per levelchanging it to a marauder-style gun layout (like the nightmare) will allow it to keep its utility highs."
"keepalive bump."
"multiple solutions have been proposed for taking care of the mess that is mining, and expanding it as a \"career.\"at the same time, t2 materials are still a largely bottlenecked resource, and alchemy simply shifted it to another bottlenecked resource. both will completely fail to scale as the player base grows.what i see as the best solution to this is to add reactions to convert asteroid ores directly into t2 materials. this is preferable to making asteroids contain some t2 materials because by making the reactions destructive, players have the choice of converting asteroids to t1 materials or t2 materials, allowing the value of asteroids to always be the higher of the two. having a second price floor will make asteroids more resistant to market fluctuations.at the same time, this will create something that is drastically needed: a way to produce t2 materials that scales effectively with individual player effort.let's make a hypothetical example of how this could work. consider the following reactions:1 compressed arkonor --> 100 impure dysporite composite1 compressed bistot --> 100 impure prometium composite1 compressed crokite --> 100 impure ferroflurite composite1 compressed dark ochre --> 100 impure fluxed mercurite compositerefinables:- 100 impure dysporite composite --> 90 dysporite- 100 impure prometium composite --> 100 prometium- 100 impure ferroflurite composite --> 45 ferrofluid + 45 hyperflurite- 100 impure fluxed mercurite composite --> 1400 neo mercurite + 1400 fluxed condensateswhy not just react directly into materials?requires new mechanics since the reaction process does not support multiple outputs at the moment. not taxable. more difficult to scale properly with +5% and +10% ore qualities.why compressed ore?silo capacity. also gives the rorqual a much more integral role in the process.why those materials?geography and availability. see the followup post (link at the bottom of this post).how much isk are we talking about?the numbers would need rebalancing, but a max-skilled hulk with a tanked fit and t2 crystals would pull something like:- arkonor: 49m/hr- bistot: 40m/hr- crokite: 45.8m/hr- dark ochre: 35m/hris that too much? would supply glut send t2 material prices into freefall?t2 material prices would fall to match the value of the ore after refinement, because once it goes below there, people will stop reacting it. t1 refinement essentially acts as a market-regulated price floor which will prevent freefall.how does this help flesh out mining as a career?hauling, compression, reaction, tower maintenance, and market watching all become factors, and feed directly into the t2 production system. this creates a lot of room for upward growth and integration, instead of relatively boring \"suck on rock, move to station, melt, sell.\"i'm not reading all that, why is this a good idea?- improves the value of asteroid mining without causing a glut of t1 minerals- makes asteroid mining more resilient to market fluctuations- adds a source of t2 material that scales with player activity, but has a market-regulated price floor so t2 prices won't just crater- allows asteroid mining to have a place in a more complex production operation- creates more options at all levels of production, leading to more diverse gameplay- rewards the expansion of mining operations into lowsec/nullsec without forcing it there- gives the rorqual's ore compression function a major role- it's fully taxable- very easy for ccp to develop as it can be done completely with existing game mechanicssome questions were asked about this, their answers have been moved to another post. click here."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"this is a really good idea, signed."
"the numbers will need to be balanced some more, but overall i think this is probably one of the better ideas i've seen for balancing mining/moon mining."
"as a former miner, and now moon miner, i feel these reactions will provide an effective bridge between the two activities."
"that actually looks like a pretty thoughtful idea. thumbs up."
"i'm in."
"why not..."
"yup. this is pretty much hitting two flys with one stone. just say no to static resources!numbers need a bit of work, but the consept is good.i fully endorse this product and/ore service (pun intended)"
"great idea!"
"good suggestion."
"supported"
"i give you my support!though all those numbers/names means nothing to me. but i do realise that 200m isk/t2 cruiser(/mining ship for my alt) is not a good development for a pvp(cough industrial) game!"
"pretty good idea"
"yes"
"the comet/moon asteroids idea has merit. i'm not sure how ccp would feel about providing an option that circumvents the current monopoly system, but what the hell - balance isn't my problem and i'm not making any money off of moon mins in my mind, limiting these spawns to lowsec/0.0/whs would be both more likely to be implemented and would encourage pilots to move below 0.5 space. it would also be nice if these \"comets\" function on a different mechanic than current belt 'roids. maybe they should actually move (perhaps quickly?)..."
"at a global level perhaps, haven't seen any figures on the total amount produced by alchemy. there are something like 1000 chrom moons in the game and about 200 prom moons.so the theoretical production of prometium (ignoring cadmium as it is the secondary input in both) would be about 50000 of which the alchemy would be 20%.however chromium is needed in other reactions that are needed as well and of course cadmium is also needed which should be about as common as chrom.my guess would be that at most 20% of the chrom moons are used for alchemy giving a total addition of 4.7% prometium and that amount isn't going to make much of an impact to the price and availability of prometium."
"supported. not necessarily your particular ideas, but a new scalable source of moon minerals. possibly new types of roids that give moon minerals could be available from probed sites and mining missions with good minerals available from lvl 4 missions and 0.0 sites."
"add moon mining to w-space?add more 0.0 space (+4 new npc regions plx)?add moon minerals to hauler spawn drop tables?tweak the alchemy conversion rates?"
"signed, signed, signed.the moon-mineral bottleneck compared with ever-rising demand is spiraling prices too high and won't stop until the bottleneck is loosened or eve starts dying (population drop).that said, the cheaper rigs have made the problem somewhat less urgent than it was before (by converging t1 and t2 performance by making rigged-out t1 ships worth fitting), but, it's still a serious issue."
"yes it's a good idea"
"a mining ship that has to use an afterburner... i like it ^^ finally a job where minmatar would not be pre-nerf'ed for once"
"someone in another thread brought the idea up to just make every moon in eve drop a certain amount of everything. so every moon drops his amount of chromium, scandium, atmospheric gases and also a small amount of dyspro and prometium... the better moons just drop more of the high end minerals.still, i really really like the idea of exploration/comets. could imagine comet types like asteroids, low sec comets drop some r16 stuff, and nullsec up to r64, in a good mix of junk, crap and valuable stuff.edit: please never never ever make moons mineable by players. i don't wanna see macros on the moons too."
"i used to do a bit of moon mining and always wondered why ccp didn't allow moon mining to have random amounts of r64/32/16/8/gases /w the primary type. it would help stabilize the pricing a bit and reduce the inflation within eve."
"this might well be a good idea that would help a lot of things (de-monopolization for one), but i'm reluctant to suggest changes which continue to depend on moon mining - after all, the whole problem is that there are a limited, unchanging quantity of moons and thus a limited number of mins. however, this idea might well deserve its own [issue] and i'd likely support it.i agree with you that macro'ers are bad. that's why, if such a capability were added to a ship, i think it would have to be either a capital or super capital ship that needs to enter a sort of \"siege\" mode in order to mine moons. perhaps sovereignty would also be necessary... but it would certainly have to be used outside of a pos shield - the idea would be that these ships are profitable but vulnerable. if someone can meet these requirements and wants to macro a multi-billion isk ship... that's ccps problem.the benefit of either an exploration or ship-based solution is that it makes production scalable. as prices increase, more people look for the sites or more alliances build the moon mining supercap, etc. this solves the \"finite\" problem inherent in the current system. that said, i'd hate to be the poor bastard stuck in a supercap dedicated to mining an object that never moves or disappears. frankly, some sort of \"mining but more challenging/interesting/dangerous etc\" solution seems better than adding yet another ship that generates isk by sitting perfectly still"
"not to be a total wise ass, but comets move rather fast. i'd like to see a hulk mine them. the picture in my head more points to an inty struggeling to catch the damned thing to mine from it!but, supported!"
"or you could try not giving roles to saboteurs or idiots?"
"for once i agree with a goon :)"
"change the current mechanic 2 second delay ( which everyone knows is broken ) to the following.dscanner produces heat when used.dscanner has a specific maxiumum heat capacity.dscanner cools down over time.e.g.dscanner heat when used = 2 thermsdscanner heat capacity = 40 thermsdscanner cooldown rate = 1 therm per second.scanner wont work when overheatedoralternativelly scanning when overheated causes 10% structure damage to ship so now i can scan 20 times in rapid succestion enough for grabing targets.i cant abuse the scanner, in the long term i can not do any more than 1 scan every 2 seconds.everyones a winner."
". oh yeah and while your in there fix the goddam angle widget so that the angles are spaced the same distance apart.15 degress is a nightmare to select.fiddly ui is not good game design."
"no. it would be the only \"module\" then which produces heat by default.not supported.i even like"
"how about if i call it decalibration instead of heat ?"
"i can see some system like this working. they'd probably want to test something like this to see how it actually worked in practice. maybe make each therm 2 seconds long, which essentially is the same delay as it is today, but that might be too long for pvper's. idk. it would probably work. and i don't know about calling it heat, but i'd much rather have a system that works like this than just the straight 2 second delay with that god awful error banner in the middle of your screen."
"you would fire any engineer if you have to decalibrate your scanner every few minutes."
"just shut up and actually offer some useful input to this thread. this fix would completely fix the scanner. making each \"therm\" or whatever you want to call it have 1 second to cool off, you effectively force a bot to only click it once every 2 seconds, exactly what they have to do now. this is a perfect fix. yeah, it might need tweaking in the role play area as to why this is happening, but it's a good idea."
"no... this requires a rewrite or adding to the mechanics that are not originally tied to said function.the only thing i could see as reasonable is making the cycles longer.but everyone already hates that.flame me all you want... but the truth is undeniable.this just makes a simple problem a hell of a lot more complicated than it needs to be."
"the warp scrambling/disrupting notificaton system needs an overhaul for several reasons.first of all the current way you are notified that you are being scrambled is a little 16x16 pixture in your overview which is very easy to miss or be completely unaware of (escpeically in a mission with 20+rats). furthermore, when in a pvp engagement here is no way to differentiate a scrambler from a disruptor, which is now important because scramblers now stop micro-warp drives. it is clear this needs to be changed.a few solutions:-put in a ring around the capacitor on the hud(or a bar somewhere, it really doesnt matter) that showed green when not being disrupted or scrambled, yellow when disrupted, and red when scrambled. if you were being scrambled and disrupted at the same time then it wuld still display red.-put in something similar to when your being jammed, a bar of text saying you are being scrambled or disrupted-more obvious visual effects for something as important as being scrambled.also, please make it so that aura says \"you are being warp scrambled\" when you are warp scrambled again. this was taken out during the apoc patch and i think its rediculous that it was removed, and should be reimplemented asap.(some of these ideas have been taken from other people, i just want this to be implemented asap so not going to bother hunting for links)"
"."
"who here remembers the old, blue warp scramble effect?o/that said, there's this little option that moves broadcast entries to the top of the overview; maybe this function could be enhanced/abused/modified for ew aswell... plz?although im sure falcon pilots would be against it -.-"
"well... you already know you are warp scrambled when you try to hit your mwd and it isnt going on.not really sure we need more than the overview icons.not long ago there was no icon at all to show you ewar."
"while i tend to agree with the population that says \"it's a bit obvious\"the games ui makes it very... not so obvious until its too late.you spend most of your time trying to figure out whether your lagging or not.there should be kind of an indicator aside from the \"spending 5 to 10 seconds checking sanity\" solution.if your being warp scrammed your should see an indicator on your ships thrust indicator like a red outline...web could be yellow.. anything but what we have now."
"i myself just came back after more than two years and i very much appreciate the fact that my name was saved all this time."
"hard to believe darth vader was already taken... oh the humanity!"
"this. delete characters that never got past trial after 1-2 years."
"even then they can pick them up again. maybe they just trained them to be cyno alts. still skillpoints + money invested."
"or a hurricane."
"please.. no ;)"
"instead of having a scanner that is nothing more than \"does target exist within this distance and angle(y/n)?\" that requires many adjustments per second, each of which requiring a server call, why not have a directional scanner that actually does something?i'm thinking of keeping the existing directional scanner range and angle limitations, but also to display information of the range and angle of found target with deviation based upon range and angle chosen in the scanner.for example, joe pod pilot (not the infamous joe the rmter) is belt ratting in a secluded nullsec/lowsec system. an ebil piewat jumps in and does a 15 au scan in a 60* angle (scanning the innermost planets). five seconds later, he gets a hit. instead of the hit being :poorly fit raven | raven navy issue | - it would look more along the lines of: poorly fit raven | raven navy issue | 5.7-6.8 au | 17* scopefurthermore, a cone representing the angle and a bar representing the range are displayed on the scanner window (the one that was removed with revelations ii (?)), and they intersect to form the area where the target can be. the ebil piewat sees that the target is in the planet iii cluster, and warps there to do a more focused and localized scan. he finds joe pod pilot at planet iii - belt 7, warps, and ganks him as joe pod pilot cries \"help me im under attack\" in the nearly empty local channel.this change will fill three purposes - fewer server calls, abuse from macros eliminated, and a scanner that is actually practical for finding ships in space.a solution like this is much better than leaving the 2 second scan interval in place. also, allowing the directional scan spam is not a viable solution. and while i acknowledge many wont enjoy the idea of having their instant scanner taken away, this proposal hopes to alienate as few people as possible, while not having the network overhead and cpu cycles of what we used to have."
"so what your saying is... to stop ds scan abuse... your wanting to buff ds scanners to make them better?how is this a solution again? (no i'm serious... not trolling here... just curious as to the thinking behind the op)"
"that sort of negates the purpose of expanded probe launchers, doesn't it?"
"well the directional scan still cant give you a 100% hit you can warp to unlike probes."
"there already is little purpose for probe launchers. the d-scanner gives you everything but a 100% warpable hit."
"mhmit is a solution because of the five second result delay. you can't spam something if it's waiting to be resolved. the kind of information the new scanning system is akin to what you would get to around five seconds of tweaking and rescanning in the current system.no. the new directional scan system is little more than finding out where a target is relative to your present location, much like how it is now. the only difference is, you actually get some information about it (though with a pretty high deviation). combat probes are for the purpose of finding out the absolute location of a ship in space, while allowing you to be anywhere in the system and cloaked.furthermore, i pity da foo who uses combat scan probes to find targets in a belt!"
"not supported.your going to make it worse... and your trying to encroach on combat probes."
"if there was a reason to feasibly mine for anything at all per hour relative to the amount gained from ratting, i would be all for it. it seems the way it is balanced at the moment, mining in general outside of really afk-ing the hell out of it or running bots while you're at work is the only way to make a decent earning at it. a change like this would help all players in the game outside of hardcore ratters to have a reason to do this in the first place. i wouldn't say mining is the most exciting thing in the game, but if you could make it at least more profitable than other ventures, it would rationalize having the skills in the game in the first place."
"looking forward to team-building squad mining ops"
"i'm generally in favor of anything that reasonably attempts to address mineral and mining imbalances. this op idea to address the problem takes it on in a conventional way, which is fine.that said, the simplest conventional approach to adjusting the mineral flows would, in fact, modify the output of drone alloys. ccp has already done this once, adjusting plush to spit out a considerable amount of tritanium instead of more zydrine. having lived in the drone regions, the difference there is that to make money you have to manufacture or haul into empire--that's a fine model once you've done the setup, and you can make a killing. in practical terms, however, the bottleneck is low-end minerals, which do not drop from battleship rats.i would recommend that this be pursued further, reducing the amount of high-end minerals from certain alloys, and increasing low-end minerals from those alloys. alternatively, incorporating some moon-related products, datacores, salvage bits, or other rewards for basic done kills to make up the isk-difference while reducing high-end mineral supply would work.nixing t1 loot drops from mission rats would also be a help for the situation, but that would mostly affect the low-end mineral market.in general, i think mining needs some serious thinking about where to take it, as it has been replaced by \"hull-mining\" drones, and other means of obtaining key minerals.generally supported.--krum"
"*ahem*"
"the drone regions seem to mostly influence the middle end minerals."
"yep but why not.it's also possible to increase the bonus in the ore:example on the veldspar in the belt.security system1-0.9 : about 100% velspar0.8-0.7 : 90 % velspar 10 % concentred0.6-0.5 : 70 % velspar 25 % concentred 5% dense0.4-0.3 : 40 % velspar 40 % concentred 20% dense0.2-0.1 : 10 % velspar 50 % concentred 40% densebonus on the concentred 15%bonus on the dense 30 %on stop the drone r<U+FFFD>gion"
"only increasing yield will push prices down if there isn't a corresponding increase in demand.imo first step should be to remove reprocess of mission loot. pushes the earnings down for lvl4's but shouldn't be that much and it doesn't make the drone regions useless as they would be without drone poo."
"removing t1 loot drops from missions wold solve the issue.so would this- with the added benefit of reducing highend moon stranglehold."
"this. if all mission drops are eliminated/severely reduced it serves a twofold purpose; 1.) makes mining a more viable profession. and 2.) makes 0.0 a more profitable place as that nerfs the higsec l4 missions, so isk farmers have to move out of empire to make the same amount of money. (it balances out risk/reward for 0.0 vs empire space.) heck, leave the drop rate alone and make refining modules only get 25-50% rather than the 100% of the materials(with good skills), and that will go a long way to solving the \"hull mining\" problem.as it stands now l4 mission runners get five things that make them isk; bounties, mission rewards, salvage, lp rewards (which can be cashed in for faction gear to sell), and loot drops to sell or refine. most loot that drops has bits of the high end materials that are so valuable. so why with all of that, would anybody mine in the first place?"
"said a lot of times, but it seem not to stick.if you remove meta 0 stuff from mission you skewer the isk/items balance inflow in favor of isk. enter massive inflation.if that is your goal [shrug]."
"i don't know about you, but meta zero stuff usually gets melted down, because the minerals are more profitable to sell than the items themselves, so that throws your isk/items balance into a co cked hat.edit:also it is just missions, rats, will still drop meta zero stuff. mission runners are there for the isk. all this does is remove one of the five ways mission runners are so overpowered, isk making wise, in the eve universe. if you want to sell meta zero stuff to pubbies, either rat it up, or produce it yourself."
"total mission income reducesmining becomes more worthwhilepeople switch from missioning to miningenter new economy balance."
"/signed - we need this, its very nice."
"not really a fan of most of the changes.why would you want the buddy list removed? sounds counter-productive to me.as for local fixes, delayed local would fix these problems way more than your proposal. not supported"
"i don't want buddy list gone, i want it to be like (e.g msn icq, skype and other simular programs) i take that you know how these softwares work. e.g i want to see you online, i would have to send you a request to be your buddy and you would have to accept and we both see each other if we log in or out.and for local a delayed local won't happen, so i suggested another way that wont really matter, it would still work the same almost, you tactics and advantages wont change at all. except for smaller gangs, because some ppl are really known and suffer badly if their names apear on local chat. and besides i really would like to get some privacy!!!"
"cov ops frigate can't hold extra ammo for the site runners and store all the lovely t3 salvage now can it. slap two grav rigs on the prowler and it will find everything you need to find in wh space as long as you have competant probe skills./signed for my prorater alts."
"/signedhonestly, all the arguing against doesn't have a solid basis.the op isn't talking about soloing a wh...plus, telling someone to use a cov ops instead of a transport ship is counter-productive, since the obvious implications for the use of this ship is as a cov ops cargo ship that has the ability to probe, tractor, or salvage, while still keeping its usual cov ops cloak.as has been said before in this post, go back under your bridge, troll, before i use burning hands on that paper-like dry flesh."
"better check that empty brain of yours.hard to salvage what isn't dead... unarmed transport ships don't help much.or did you forget that?"
"until that flock of drakes starts running dry. then that unarmed transport ship full of juicy missiles comes into its own."
"*shrug* sure, i'd like a second high slot on the viator, even if it were for moon probing only -.-but unless minmatar get some other boosts, they must keep these little advantages"
"glad to see it's gaining a little traction.and mr. troll, you're just one of very few in this thread who are downing it b/c you don't think it's needed, or you just like to **** on other people's ideas.yer ongoing, useless banter is unwanted, take it back under the bridge.-skan"
"insurance should only be provided by default to members of npc corps at 50% only. concord actions should not be insured, which was always a oversight in my opinion. insurance outside of npc corps should be provided at the corp and alliance level to aid in reimbursement programs only. no individual relationship with insurance interface, which would motivate corp/alliance reimbursement since it's another profit center if you have a bunch of miners."
"the idea behind ccp buying back plex for a small price of five dollars or so to give it a ten dollar profit, was based on my own desire to earn real life money playing eve legitly, no macro mining just good old isk earning. since each gtc is based on membership then ccp is not making extra money by selling them they are just allowing real life money trading to be down in their house, one of many ways to keep the rmt's at bay. but if they bought them back then there is no member using them thus they become extra cash, and my believe is that more people would want to buy them with isk thus allowing more people to buy gtc's to sell until the markiet plateaus. if you have the time to respond to this among your many responsibilities can someone let me know ccp's stand on this."
"hah! no."
"not supported. its a bad idea, a game should not be the source of real money profit for the players. the savage play is harsh enough already.aside from all the negative game impacts, there is also the problems with taxes and exchange rates."
"no thank you."
"/facepalmbig thumbs down."
"1:make billions of isk through some scheme2:buy plex in game3:sell plex and make profit4:repeatconclusion: op is brain-dead and ******ed.not supported."
"ccp does not permit the reverse option of gtc -> cash unless you are have a business that sells gtc's. go to your account settings page and you will find the list of gtc approved resellers. my explanation will stop at the list of approved \"gtc resellers\"."
"really i dont know the purpose of why you cant dock motherships and titans, but please either create a hanger array or some docking mechanism i shouldnt have to log off with my char in the ship so its not visible etc..i want to leave my super cap in a hugh hanger and jump in a hac or something.. i shouldnt be made to have a second account cos i fly a mothership or titan. i know directly your not 'made to' but the game mechanics force you to, unless you happy say in your super cap doing nothing.make these constructable just like outposts or something,"
"it's called a capital ship maintenance array /w 155m m3 that can accommodate a titan. the only thing required is sov1 for the ability to anchor, so something does exist already."
"i really hope this is part of the any upcoming pos changes.seems like a no brainer features to have on the sma at least. it won't prevent the thefts, but it does allow you to see who did them so they can be dealt with."
"supported... but i was under the impression you could at least name the ships you drop."
"please give us bigger fonts! in whole ui, i already have glasses dont wanna play with binocculars damnit (running at 1920x1080 on 16\" lcd, cant lower ress really, if i would whats the point with premium gfx?)"
"new fonts nao."
"/signed"
"/signedand to anyone who says \"there are bigger issues at hand\". how to you expect ccp to fix a bigger issue if they won't fix a smaller issue?fix it ccp!pretty please..."
"why it looks awesome, i want to keep it."
"signed. fix it."
"supported"
"i totally agree happened to me when i pirated all the time"
"oops i forgot the checkbox"
"just make it for pc aswell problem solved."
"sort it out"
"this needs fixed badly, wtf is this s***"
"oh hi.wth did you do to my scanner!?"
"time to pay attention ccp!fix the scanner!"
"is that 750 supports i see? and that doesn't even include the people that forgot to click support!sort it out k?"
"this is just annoying."
"fix the d-scanner. i'd rather have lag than not be able to scan things out quickly."
"^^what he said."
"this really has to be returned to its former state."
"it's now page 33 and still no acknowledgment by the csm"
"/signed i needz my scanspam back"
"agree ccp fail."
"if they had coupled it with a much improved directional scan it might have been workable, but this clunky piece of crap got nerfed so it's worse than ever. give the whole damn thing an overhaul, for 230th century tech it damn primitive"
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed, this is just silly."
"agree"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"any fix that intentionally degrades a product ain't good... i'm sure there are more clever ways to fix the lag created by spamming the directional scanner. failing that, i think 0.5 seconds is the threshold if a delay is necessary."
"2 sec scan timer is most unrighteous. i am deeply disturbed and may need to seek psychiatric help as a result. will ccp please confirm that they accept liability for funding this?*leans back in chair and strokes *****(cat)*/signed"
"my thoughts exactly. ccp, you can do better."
"signed. its amazing how one small change with that damn popup message is so annoying let alone game failing."
"most annoying thing in game and another example of ccp attacking small roams"
"for 0.0 and low sec pvpers scanner is the most used tool... when you're warping thru in an inty you're unable to scan things you pass thru... ccp please bring the old scanner back..."
"i guess that after this they'll change it to 5s or 10s just out of spite."
"signed."
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"i understand why they put it in, but 2 seconds is about 20x too long. should be .1 or .2.reeks of something nozh would have done, a narrow-minded fix to a specific problem while being completely ignorant of its full effects."
"signed"
"signed. delay is silly and needless."
"signed."
"change makes me want to kick puppies, please reverse./signed"
"need more support."
"this is a matter ccp must have forgotten!you have my support!"
"page one with you!!"
"this is like saying country a declares war against country b, so country b joins forces with countries c, d, and e. now, country a can no longer shoot country b, nor can they shoot country c, d, or e.there needs to be a permanently temporary timer on wardecs. for example, lets say alliance a declares war against alliance b on 8/20/2009 20:00. from that day until the day the wardec ends, every member corp of the alliance at that specific time is affected, even if a member corp of alliance b leaves. subsequently, every new member corp that joins the alliance has instant access to the wardec after 24 hours.lets look at a different scenario. alliance/corporation a delcares war against corporation b. corporation b decides to join an alliance to dodge the dec. to solve this, no matter where corporation b goes, the wardec affects then for the duration of the dec. if they do join an alliance, after the first week of war goes against corporation b, corporation a would then have to wardec the alliance. i get extremely ****ed off when a corporation dodges a wardec."
"as i've said for years... war declarations should flag each and every individual pilot in an alliance/corp.corp jumps alliance, war sticks with them.player jumps corp, war sticks with them (though does not escalate to their new corp... but new corp members can assist after the new member comes under attack by his legitimate war opponents).either way, once the initial war duration expires the corp/player flags terminate and they have to be declared against individually as entities (corp/alliance).now, as for these join/jump exploiters, in the short term this can be fixed easily by ccp:petition filed. gm examines petition, examines corp's behavior, and deems it to be a purposeful alliance dodge, and initiates an immediate declaration of war from the original declarer to the jumper. no time duration to wait out, no need for the petitioning corp to vote again.if the corp continues to do this their ceo faces a possible ban... or, simply enough, all of the corp's poss are immediately put offline."
"i am going to be placing all those who sent me ideas into seperate threads so that people can vote and decide which fix would be considered the best for the minmatar. i know that some will want to make suggestions, but at this point, it would be best if of the three (and hopefully more) that are being put up, you choose the one you like the best. so, here is astrophobic's idea on fixing the minmatar situation:i believe that the weapon systems should be changed across the board. this includes small and medium projectiles. now, i understand that minmatar are already quite good in small and fairly good in medium sized ships. a percentage change across the board means that large projectiles get the \"most\" benefit from the changes while still keeping things fairly in line across the board. without further ado, my proposed changes:all autocannons: +35% falloff. hit quality reduces the damage at optimal + falloff to 38.6%, tracking independent. this is a very steep loss of damage and ambits are practically manditory on every ac ship just to get decent damage.tiered falloff: keep the falloff the same for the middle tiered autocannons. reduce the falloff of the lower tier by 10%, increase the falloff of the upper tier by 10%. this gives incentive to fit the larger tiered autocannons when currently there is little reason to, which also addresses the low powergrid usage of low tier autocannons.ammo: switch fusion damage types with emp. new fusion l would be 36 explosive damage, 12 kinetic damage. new emp l would be 26 em, 12 explosive, 6 kinetic. the change to emp also gives a higher percentage of em damage than is currently done and gives an advantage to those who can switch out ammo before fights. currently it's spread too evenly between two contrasting damage types which makes it fairly mediocre. this would also remedy the 9% dps loss when compared to other high damage ammos. carbonized lead and other long range ammo should have their damage reduced to match other races' long range ammo. normally i would welcome diversity, however the t2 long range ammo makes this minmatar \"trait\" simply a disadvantage.artillery: increase the base damage modifier by 50%. compensate by increasing the rate of fire by 50% as well. this gives artillery a bit of it's bite back, but not all of it. it's a midway point between the current state and the pre-hp boost state. increase clip size by 50% as well. finally, increase optimal by 10% across the board. the result is a higher alpha but the same dps, and a little bit less pain from reloading. the optimal increase is necessary to make minmatar battleships even remotely acceptable in fleet fights.the tempest: increase speed and agility by 15%. change the bonuses as following: damage bonus to 10% per level, 5% falloff per level. this gives it a little bit of seperation from the maelstrom which currently overshadows it in nearly every role. it makes the tempest a much better pirate boat and gives it a good anti-support role while staying mobile. it has the option of sitting nice and close with a large alpha from artillery, or being a mobile autocannon and neutralizer machine. it will still suffer from a confused mid/low slot configuration, so it won't be the next gank/tank battleship like the mega or geddon. it will actually lose dps in favor for some true versatility.the muninn: move a highslot to a midslot. utility highslots don't belong on sniper hacs, nevermind two of them. increase speed and agility by 10%. combined with the artillery changes, i think it will be just fine. it may not reach the dps/tracking of the zealot, but it will have a seperate damage type and be faster and more agile. there is no reason why the amarr hac should be faster than the minmatar hac.the typhoon: switch armor and shield. give it some more fitting room (+1000 pg/40 cpu) and it would go a long way into becoming the versatile boat it was designed to be."
"i like it. got my vote"
"i like the idea, it would change the tempest to something i'd actually like to fly instead of the phoon. i've missed the alpha of arties since for ever, and this would bring some of the former glory back to minmatar artillery."
"maybe some extra drones on the tempest? 100m<U+FFFD> perhaps to still allow the phoon to \"shine\"..?"
"supported"
"sounds good"
"i like this proposal the best."
"astro has my vote."
"ed:i think the pest will be very competitive with the proposed changes.ed2: boz, the box... click it."
"this has my vote, plus the 'phoon change would be welcome. hell, all of it is welcome."
"these changes are awesome! i support this!"
"a big ol' thumbs up."
"spot on"
"i noticed there was an option to support this topic, so i decided to respond and click that little box."
"supported.right now as a pvper (not a pirate, cause i rarely ransom, i just do it for the fights), i am forced to keep my security status to -3.99 or higher because i can't make enough isk in lowsec to justify going -10. i have to run missions in highsec. this is forcing me to not pvp because i can't afford the sec hits. i have been currently exploring exploration and plexing to maybe earn enough isk in lowsec to move there permanently again. also the fix op said would help tremendously."
"i've been tricked into voting to nerf the perfect truesec in my ratting system"
"supported. it's been brought up numerous times in the past, would love to see it implemented"
"supported."
"support to this thread, even if a month or 2 late ive never personally had a problem with any gm's, due to the fact that ive only ever petitioned once, which was a bug in the modules, and the gm that responded handled everything quickly and professionally. forget his name, but hats off to him ideas i liked were hiring more gm's, which would lift the load on the overtaxed petition system. also i like the idea of testing gm knowledge and competency, as it is always nice to have the person able to fix my problems to actually know what im talking about. an internal testing/investigation team of ccp or senior gm personel could help root out a few of the \"bad apples\" that people seem to have trouble with."
"guess what, another dissatisfied customer here. just for the thrill, the case where ccp conclusively lost me was a login issue that took weeks to investigate and involved mocking me with an answer containing instructions \"if the petition was created ingame\". (tbh i finally dicovered that the cause of problem was a stealth virus in my computer, but that does not change the fact that ccp support was outreagous and provided not simple zero, but negative help.)now to contribute to the thread. if you want to do something about the situation but - understandably - are not willing to assume the burden of taking legal steps against ccp, consider what i did.1. i decided not to pay a single penny to ccp until the service is considerably improved. that means i sustain my subsrciption via gtc and plex purchases (want to stress that from legal sources only) - if i run out of isk before the customer service issue is solved, then by-by eve.2. i also made sure that my friends who are potential customers are aware of the situation and wont even consider to pay a penny - as long as the problem persists.3. i enacted a zero tolerance policy towards petition mishandling. in the future, any single time my petition is not treated as it should be, i post an article on my experience in a game mag or other place on the web where it can reach the gaming community. 4. plus, i will address the gm in question in as a harsh and degrading way as it is possible within the scope of a civilized conversation."
"let me add a speculation on what will happen. it is entirely true that corporations spend as little on consumer support as possible. however ccp probably spends less than possible (or just the managers are utterly incompetent and/or undermotivated), and as a consequence its support department is easily the worst in the industry. this already limits costumer acquisition (also contributes to erosion of existing customer base, but that effect is minimal, so far), finally nullifying the profitability of eve and thus killing the game. my guess is, the top management wont notice the scope of the prolem until it is too late, and then they will decide to squeeze out as much profit from eve in the little time reamining, as possible. this will involve finally sacking the current service team, only to replace them with an even cheaper and even worse cadre.one more note on historical comparison. i live in a country that was under (unofficial) russian occupation and ruled by a puppet goverment during the communist era. almost all of the official corpses - army, police, burocrats, etc. - developed a very characteristic pattern of behaviour (locally called \"protecting the honour of the uniform\") that included total denial of any problem, uncondicional support of any member of the corp despite the most excessive error or abuse committed, and suppression of critical voices. when ccp employees only notice forum threads like this one to close them, but make a big point not to write even a single reply, harrass ppl who dare to voice their dissatisfaction (see one reported case in this thread), or higher level gms concur with the obviously stupid actions of lower level ones, that reeks of the odour of the same behaviour. dear gms, if you read this, learn from history for your own sake, this has spectacularly proven to be a self-destructive attitude."
"supported"
"supported and ibtl"
"they've been borked for like 4 months now. how long is it going to take for ccp to fix the killmail reporting so we can actually see accurate damage dealt / taken?linkagehe took 11,400 damage while having over 17,000 raw hitpoints (according to eft, and using the character with no skills)linkagea drake with 2 lse's taking 5,100 damage. right.linkagea raven with 19,000 raw hp (using the completely skill-less character) dying to 12,000 damage.they used to work, a patch a couple of months borked them, get some assets on this and fix it already.i'm sure a lot of you have noticed the same thing in your killmail-viewings."
"amazingly, i support my proposal."
"if they spawned concord, concord will not show in the killmail but will show the damage dealt higher then the persons engaged"
"if you had managed to read the links, you'd see that all the kills are in 0.0, where concord cannot intervene."
"unbreak this please"
"i believe this, 100% supported.. no people should be tough on the eve forums.. or posting when banned. its tootally and super super inappropriate and unprofessional. guys im super serial here.. this is eve online.. internet spaceships.. serious buisness."
"curse those evil forum ban evading infidels (ingame)!"
"hello assembly hall,today i'd like to talk to you about an issue that i have noticed more and more in recent weeks.item: player character has been petitioning others for perceived threats or harassment but is really just a way to attack them since they can't do jack **** in game.example: player a says something innocuous and innocent to player b. player a and player b do not like each other. player b looks for any way to take what player a said out of context as a threat or as harassment. player b then sends multiple petitions for harassment or threats to the gms, even though they're not going to get any result, and in the end are just wasting gm time and ruining the customer service for those of us with legitimate petition issues.solution: if you make excessive petitions for obviously stupid reasons, gms warn you to stop wasting their time, or eventually give you a temporary ban until you stop asking like a 5 year old.thoughts: with the work load that our beloved gms undergo i feel it is imperative that those wasting gm time be appropriately punished."
"yes i have seen this many times close to our home system.... wonderful idea vaden- supported"
"supporting my own idea."
"supported, currently people use harassment 'threats' as ways to get rivals banned in order to cut down on enemy combat ability. in addition, people shouldn't get banned for cursing, this is the internet get used to offensive language, the game isn't rated e for a reason."
"supported... i mean why is it that when you cant do anything ingame your best defence is the \"petition\" button. thats just .. silly."
"mucho support."
"fully agree. also, there should be harsher penalties for posting another person's personal info into local chat than calling someone an insult on forums."
"you have any base for your affirmation beside some guy saying in local \"i will petition you\" and maybe not even that?pretty flimsy base for your \"statistic\". unless ccp came out and give us a statistic with the different kind of petition sent you are doing exactly what you accuse other people to do.accusing them of something without anything to back up your accusation.from what i know excessive non motivated petitions can result in a ban, so nothing to change there."
"obviously we have no fear of the \"im gonna petition you\" local threat. we are refering to the constant mail light up.. \"warning\"... \"warning\"... over absolutly nothing."
"supported. wasting gm time is unnacceptable."
"abuse of the petitions system in order to effect another players gameplay should be met with a ban.submitting a petition when proper perusal of the eula would serve as a substitute should be met with a 3 strikes and you are out system."
"so you are getting warnings from someone, i see 2 options:1) it i the player sending the mail, so a no issue like the treat in local unless it become too insistent and a form of harassment;2) if a gm is sending the warning, he has found something not fully acceptable in your behavior. so the problem maybe is that what you find \"nothing\" is not acceptable by ccp standards. if you feel that the gm is wrong petition and escalate, the gm will receive better instruction or you will be informed that your behavior is wrong and probably why. edit:seeing that 5 thumb ups over of total of 8 are from laconian syndicate give more credence to the opinion that your corp has a habit of excessive smacking in local or harassing more than to a problem of excessive petitions from your targets."
"why dont you petition them crybaby?issue supported."
"quod erat demonstrandum"
"latin ftw"
"not supporting an \"assumption\" based proposal."
"supporting an \"assumption\" based proposal."
"supported because people threatening petitions as a way of getting back at people is idiotic."
"this is not a troll or a flame or directed at any one person. this thread is a legitimate proposal. this thread is not the place for paranoia and assumptions. this is a topic i feel needed to be proposed and looked at for the greater good of the eve community."
"if people don't want to get petitioned for something they say, perhaps they should just not say it. this applies both in-game and on the forums.not supported./ben"
"i am going to be placing all those who sent me ideas into seperate threads so that people can vote and decide which fix would be considered the best for the minmatar. i know that some will want to make suggestions, but at this point, it would be best if of the three (and hopefully more) that are being put up, you choose the one you like the best. so, here is ecky x's idea on fixing the minmatar situation:artillery get a flat 8% damage mod increase - all sizes. muninn gets 1 high moved to a mid. autocannons get tiered falloff increases. ex:d425mm : 16km -> 16kmd650mm : 16km -> 18km800mm : 16km -> 20km1200mm : 35km -> 35km1400mm : 35km -> 42kmtempest is given a 100% role bonus to projectiles. bonuses changed to 10% falloff and 5% damage per level (same as vargur's t1). 6 highs, 4 turrets, 0-4 launchers. grid and cpu adjusted, of course.^ unforseen bonus to this, pilots w/o bs v don't lose out on nearly as much damage. effect - maelstrom gets a slight increase in close-range arty dps and range, a tad more range with autos. tempest will still do less dps, but with moar range and no tanking bonus, much like apoc vs abaddon. tempest falloff increased from 44 to 80km with 1400's, helping its effective range a bit."
"this fix is best fix."
"/signed"
"1.0"
"the url at the end is ironic, isn't it."
"this would be cool"
"i am going to be placing all those who sent me ideas into seperate threads so that people can vote and decide which fix would be considered the best for the minmatar. i know that some will want to make suggestions, but at this point, it would be best if of the three (and hopefully more) that are being put up, you choose the one you like the best. so, here is kagura nikon's idea on fixing the minmatar situation:very easily pushable proposal: tempest proposal. boost fittings. drop need of rcuy for proper sniper fit, increase a little bit lock range. increase agility so it can warp off in about 9 seconds (no mwd trick need). increase damage bonus to 7.5%stil bad range sniper. but good alpha ( role different from maesltrom, and more agile than maesltrom, so better sniper than maesltrom).edit: clarified ship type discussed"
"i'm guessing this proposal is for the tempest, right?"
"bump"
"some answers to questions asked about this:how is asteroid system coverage? are there issues with cartels?arkonor spawns in 151 systems, almost exclusively in angel space.crokite spawns in 228 systems, almost exclusively outside of angel space.bistot spawns in 334 systems, relatively independent of territory.dark ochre spawns in 506 systems, relatively independent of territory.due to the complex reaction formulae, regions would be capable of producing either fermionic condensates (arkonor) or ferrogel (crokite) from asteroids, but not both. this proporation is also reflected in the demand for those respective materials. i.e. there is a lot more crokite than arkonor, and there is a lot more demand for ferrogel than fermionics.how many player hours would it take to match existing supply?the average barge pilot gets ~90,000 m3/hr, and ore quality averages +5%. that means about 5.625 compressed bistot or arkonor per hour, or 4.5 compressed crokite per hour.jita moves 434,197 fermionic condensates per day, requiring 217,098 units of prometium and dysporite. this would equate to 2,297 compressed crimson arkonor and and 2,067 compressed triclinic bistot, or about 776 player hours of activity.jita moves 1,612,606 ferrogel per day, requiring 403,152 units of prometium, hyperflurite, and ferrofluid. this would equate to 3,840 compressed triclinic bistot and 8,532 compressed sharp crokite, or about 2,579 player hours of activity.matching the activity of both in just jita would require around 3,355 player hours per day, not counting time spent compressing or reacting, and not counting market hubs outside of jita which i am way too lazy to check right now.what's the deal with fluxed condensates and neo mercurite?these are a sticking point because their value is largely due to imbalances in the complex material reactions. dysprosium and promethium are needed at 3 points by two very important reactions, while thulium is only needed at 1 and neodymium is only needed at 2 (one of which has a ridiculous output quantity).addressing that may put more pressure on thulium and neodymium, so they do need to be a part of the solution to prevent them from being strained just like promethium and dysprosium are now.what about other ore types?there are more intermediates than ore types, so it would not be infeasible to make all intermediates available through various ores.what about highsec mining, lowsec mining, and gravimetric sites?highsec mining could be expanded with a bit of complexity since compressing would require finding a way to get them to lowsec to get the best value out of them. it would not remove refining into t1 materials as an option.lowsec is plagued with other issues that are beyond the scope of this discussion, but useful reactions for hemorphite, hedbergite, jaspet, and kernite could help give it usefulness.while gravimetric sites tie into the mining debate, they are more a concern of availability than usefulness, so i think they are outside the scope of this discussion as well."
"moon harvesting array ii's aren't seeded yet, so i don't think the situation calls for changes to pre-cursor harvesting. at any point they can seed the t2 harvesting variants, which will increase supply. in the event they need to increase supply more they will simply modify additional r64's to have additional quantity to make use of the t2 harvesters."
"he never said nothing would need changing, obviously they're going to need to rewrite the code......if ccp is gonna screw up scanner with the dscanner this bad they might as well make new mechanics for it.not sure what you mean by making the cycles longer, if you mean that what ccp already did was the best choice, you are obviously wrong. it limits actual player skill, is very annoying, and greatly interferes with scanning.this isn't making the simple problem any worse, this is just a way to keep scanner people happy and limiting bots to 1 scan every 2 seconds. exactly what ccp should want to do.edit whoops talking to the wrong person"
"thank you for your friendly words.my solution? reduce the on board scanner time to 0.25-0.5swhich would be a reasonable timeframe."
"your welcome, i understand we both want the scanner fixed, but that doesn't change the fact you contributed nothing to this discussion other than pointing out obvious flaws to only the reasoning behind this perfectly legitimate idea.yes, i would love to have a .25 - .5 second delay instead of the 2 second delay, and i would prefer it to this idea, but that might just not happen, and that doesn't change the fact that this is a legitimate alternative to something that may not happen. an alternative, that actually has the same effect as the original failfix of scanner spammers."
"thanks for the support.i cant understand lack of support in this thread.pvpers can scan rapidlly to find targets as long as they dont try to do it constantly.server is happy cause you cant do more than 2 sans per second as it is now.i too would prefer the old scanner , scannin as much as possible.but i dont think ccp will ever go for that.i think the game is running a lot less laggy since they introduced the 2 sec rule.this method keeps the 2 second rule while enabling burst scanning to find targets."
"this"
"i like the ops idea. there may be other good ideas, maybe even better ones i didn't see yet, but this is one of the better.but to be honest: to fix the scanner, we should know exactly what the problem was before.was it macro-ratters/hunters who spammed the scanner 23/7 and thus creating constantly heavy db load?or was it used like a goon-tactic (sry to mention just goons, but like we all now ur evil and used lag-creating-mechanics before, like copying bookmarks ) that every one was ordered to spam scan in fleet by their fc?"
"effects wouldnt work very well, since most people (should) have their views zoomed out. as i said in my first post, a little indicator light or a ring or something on the hud would be ideal."
"make the speed meter flash red."
"this was in the features and ideas section, i think something like that picture would be awesome."
"you can't train cynosural field theory on a trial account."
"can i try this after i fill my itty v's cargo with bombs?"
"it does not take \"skill\" to ram something.any skill that increases damage to this proposed idea would make it even more overpowered than it already is."
"look how stupid you are"
"for you minerals are isk? they are still items that enter the game from an outside source (and are then turned into ships, modules, ammunitions.if you remove the modules, even without any compensation, mission returns instead of being approximatively 35% isk, 20% metazero loot, 10% other loot, 20% salvage, 15% lp you will get 45% isk, 12% other loot, 25% salvage, 18% lp.simply removing one part of the material you will shift the balance between isk and non isk faucets and as the part that don't require to spend time looting become proportionally greater people will be pushed toward speed mission running and not looting, giving a even greater push toward isk faucets, further unbalancing the system.and malcanis can dream as much as he want, but this will push a very small number of people toward mining. most of them will be pushed toward fast running missions, compensating the reduced loot with more isk from outside the system. again, what you will get is inflation. more isk, less items."
"would rather see the drone loot be moon minerals instead of the normal type that drops now."
"i think the idea holds some merit, in particular the bit about moon minerals. the rest is a good start, but the numbers need a bit more refinement./supported in principle"
"i am going to be placing all those who sent me ideas into seperate threads so that people can vote and decide which fix would be considered the best for the minmatar. i know that some will want to make suggestions, but at this point, it would be best if of the three (and hopefully more) that are being put up, you choose the one you like the best. so, here is seriously bored's idea on fixing the minmatar situation:the tempest currently suffers from two problems: poor hitpoints, and poor damage. unfortunately, those are the two most important things governing battleship combat. a lot of that stems from its 8/5/6 slot layout, with only 6 turret hardpoints, as well as the ship having more shields than armor. to fix this in part, it should have its shield and armor values flipped.the tempest's poor damage comes from the fact that it has to give up gyrostabilizers to tank. even with the above change, it would just have \"acceptable\" hitpoints (still the worst of any major combat ship).the maelstrom can out-damage the tempest in almost any realistic situation, because it can fit more gyros while fielding a better shield tank.to fix this part, the tempest should get some naglfar-style love. by changing it's 5% damage bonis to 7.5%, it gets a 12.5% boost over its previous projectile damage, but still can't fit as it still couldn't fit as many gyros as the maelstrom, so it would just barely be matching it, or standing on the same level. it would still be more fragile, but finally have something about it that shines.finally, there's projectiles in general. at some point, ccp thought it would be a good idea to reduce projectile close-range ammo damage by 10% compared to lasers and hybrids, and increase projectile long-range ammo by 10% (not many people know that second part).whether it was diversity or what, it is tantamount to a nerf. the reality of the game is that t1 long-range ammo was made irrelevant by t2 long-range ammo, so ccp 'balanced' projectile ammo by giving it a bonus to something no informed player in their right mind uses.minmatar close range ammo needs to be increased by 10%, and long range ammo needs to be decreased by 10% to bring them back in line.there is a side effect of an unintentional nerf to cap ships, because they do not have t2 because they do not have t2 sniper ammo, and they use long range ammo to hit farther out.that's fine, i believe, because the naglfar is currently the highest-damage (though in minmatar fashion, one of the lowest tanked) ships, and can still do fine without it."
"bump"
"i just got my acounts hacked , what the hell..."
"support, i givz it.a keychain number spitter would be geek stylish as well.one gallente and one amarrian plz."
"the proposal has already been voted on and passedthanks for the support, but you don't need to post here anymore"
"supported with the addition of the person that self destructed their ship appearing on the killmail as doing what ever damage was left over.the mail should appear as kill mails do now and show all mods fitted and in cargo hold.the mail should show that they self destructed and how much hit points they had left.no insurance payout for self destructing."
":kicks 0.0 mission runners in the nuts::boosts highsec::is op:i agree that corpses should be salvageable for implants, apart from that don't nerf pirate lp stores. they're already bad enough as it is."
"new font and font-size choosing!i'm at 1680x1050 on 20 inches aka my pixels are tiny. it is really hard after you play some time and always leaning forward to read is not that comfy..."
"i'm gonna go ahead and presume a 10-month-old, no-standings newb corp char either doesn't fly caps, or is a trolling alt, or at the very least never saw the old effect to compare it to."
"totally agree with change as op suggest"
"if you ever stepped foot into low sec, 0.0 or wormhole space, then you would be able to shoot them if you wanted.have you guys ever tried those areas of the game?edit: on another note, it is your own fault anyways. you normally have 20 people there for the one kill and alts not in privateers to remote rep you guys, so between the 30+ people you have there to loot the wreck it is snatched up my some other guy, then good for that other guy for actually dragging and dropping faster."
"why when we can take ships from you guys without having to travel: clicky1 year 3 months / 17 pages of replies / this thread ... funny you didn't have anything constructive to say until our war dec went active btw: fail attempt on making this a privateer issue rather than a game mechanic issue ..."
"my appologies on not using kid gloves on this thread. i was simply being blunt on the facts. let me rephrase in a more loving and less offensive way so no parties that read this do not get @#$%hurt over it.like in all games, the mechanics of the game have to have a balance to them. pro's and con's if you will.empire war decs have the leasure of being able to eliminate most peoples involvment in your combat because they can't shoot or they will be concorded you see? thus for those parties not involved in the war dec are very limited in what they can do outside of just watching the fight. they can assist one of the parties and become flagged and be a part of the fight, or they can try thier luck and see if they can 'steal' from a wreck of one of the victims of the battle. i am sure there are some other ways but back to my point.by stealing, they are flagged to the owner of the wreck and the corp the owner is part of, provided it is not a npc corp. this can be done by simply dragging and dropping the items from the wreck to thier own cargo bay. just like the attacker can do.by your suggestion, they would become flagged not only to the owners corporation but to those involved in killing said person as well. this would throw off the balance of high sec war decs. your suggestion would gear this mechanic more towards \"hello kitty\" style game play or like when two wow players drop a flag and duel. extremely boring.the current mechanic works fine. if you want the loot, simply be faster at stealing. after all, they are stealing from the owner of the wreck, not you. there is no major issue (if any) at all.no support.btw: 1 year 3 months / 17 pages of replies / this thread ... privateers have war deced tri well more than just this one time. i promise you it is coincidence that i replied during one of your alliances war decs on us. i was compeled to be blunt about the fact of that out of all the people who could have stolen the loot from the privateers side they are complaining about neutral parties stealing before them. so enough of the kill mail linking, spinning of words, desperate attempts to turn attention away from the fact that because someone was able to drag and drop faster than you, you want a game mechanic changed.i hope this reply was more affectionate and loving and no feelings were hurt in the process. if you still feel that you need to link more killboard stuff, or discuss your war decs, no one is stoping you from starting a thread on coad."
"/signedin my opinion pc is better for fps, but that's my opinion. one thing that is fact, is that console gamers are fickle. if dust catches on with that demographic. its only a matter of time before the new \"hot\" game comes out, and dust is forgotten. once the console fad wears off, then what are the paying eve subscribers left with?"
"ditosupported."
"supported.also i'd like to point out that this could serve to reduce database clutter by eliminating the necessity for every pilot to maintain separate sets of bookmarks for the same location."
"yes, please."
"this also will reduce the number of bookmarks out there, and so also reduce lag."
"yes oh please yes!!!!!"
"full support!"
"justtoolong"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"support!"
"signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"/signed0.5 seconds is the maximium it should be."
"/signed"
"reply #1000how much more till the threads mystically disappear? ... and still no csm. where are those useless bunch?"
"1000th reply...doh, 1001stsurely ccp must actsupported"
"hope this helps.../signed"
"get it done!ruins scanning with the 2 second delay.cut it down to half a second perhaps, stops complete spamming of the button but still is enough time for the scouts to scan belts and get on target."
"signed"
"/signed"
"supporting."
"2 second delay is a tad too much. decreasing down to 1 second would be fine in my book if it's needed at all.1 second is tolerable, 2 seconds is an eternity.and the reset timer on the message, dear lord!"
"signed"
"signed"
"revert please. reasons are in this thread!"
"needs fixing for sure."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"two seconds is far too long. there must be a better way that will still help relieve database congestion."
"/signed"
"signed"
"i agree, its ridiculous!"
"agreed and signed!"
"signed."
"signed"
"/signed... scanner delay is terrible"
"why was this done?"
"my game is just fustrating now/signed"
"as i posted in general discussion: this change makes pvp scanning extremely difficult and extra obnoxious with the constant notification that interferes with a game mechanic we have all been using for years.if significant abuse of the scanner really does affect server performance so severely that this was a necessary change then implement some sort of anti-spam function to prevent prolonged sessions of updating scan.this is a ridiculous change that makes it even easier for the masses of eve who only want to earn pixel money and never have to fight to escape pvp. it's hard enough to catch fleeing targets already as ccp gears this game towards new players and punishes long time members, and this is just another pvp nerf.for those of you who say 2 seconds is not noticeable, you obviously don't know how to scan in a pvp scenario. please fix this.supported!!"
"/signed"
"i'm with you, man!"
"agreed"
"."
"signed"
"yes the sb effect is the reason i turned effects off altogether."
"/signedsensor booster effect is the reason i mainly play with effects off now."
"its not bad but old one was much better.eccm now that is bad."
"as the title sayswhen looking at t2 cruisers, one gets the impression that all of them come with 3.75au/s. hacs, both recons, hics - until you arrive at logistics, which only get the plain t1 speed of 3au/s.although it is nowadays possible to rig for warp speed, one isn't enough or would have to be t2. and if you don't, your scimitar will slow down any gang-warp-in of your sniping-hac fleet :oi realize, this doesnt affect many people nor does it sound like a biggie. but that's exactly why i think this has a chancebesides... noone gets hurt ^^"
"i would think the logistics ship should warp in last and not with the main attacking force.not supported."
"alas, that still happens when you warp the entire aligned gang to your bookmark/cov-ops cloaker/gate cause everybody is bound to the logi's bottleneck of 3au/s"
"there's no obvious reason for logistics to warp slower than every other cruiser."
"signed"
"support"
"/signed"
"i support this. this needs to be done."
"very much supported."
"supported.also should be able to increase falloff with as many methods as there is for optimal.what about small artilleries? not sure if anything is going to be better with that kind of dps. my rifter probably recharges more."
"sounds pretty good."
"something on these lines would be the best."
"hell yes"
"this seems the most well thought out set of changes i've seen. i would register the following reservations:- the muninn should lose both of its utility high slots. there is no reason to limit the ship at its max range to what an eagle can do with so much more range. i believe moving the two utility highs to a mid and a low is the right answer(tm) here.- the artillery changes is a nerf to minmatar mission runners (i think, i have not run the numbers). while i am ok with this, it should be noted.- a bit more cpu on the cyclone please. :)looks good astro. looks like you took my ideas and polished them up nicely.-liang"
"fix scanners ( or boost them )nerf local= eve much better place"
"unsupported after the changes to scanners. now all there is is local to gather quick intel without alts."
"no. local is the only tool for people doing either mining or other pve."
"supported"
"hi there. do you know what scan probes are for?"
"low sec... no.0.0... don't care anyway."
"theres new topic on this subject every two weeks or so. this forum sucks.btw i support."
"supported, tired of getting crappy responses with the gm department and/or have the issue ignored"
"never stop supporting!!!!"
"while i personally think they should just get rid of kill mails altogether, if they are going to keep them, they should at least be right.fix them or dump them. don't leave them broken."
"this is indeed something i dont understand. but then again why would ccp fix something they have broken, amirite."
"1. either remove entirely or give us an option to disable the animation upon opening the fitting service screen. it was cute the first dozen times, now it's just annoying to have to wait for the sequence to complete.2. increase the number of fits that can be saved by a corporation from a paltry 50 to a more practical number such as 250. again this will end up saving on database clutter as it will reduce duplicate fits saved by members of corporations.3. create a new category of fits which are available alliance-wide. many alliances (my own included) have standard loadouts which are used in fleet operations and it would be a great benefit to be able to post these at the alliance level instead of depending upon individual corporations to keep their lists up to date."
"i support this idea."
"this would be pretty awesome."
"do this tia"
"please."
"oh god, agreeing with goons..."
"the animation used to be a lot faster for me, it's a pain now.also, given the number of ships available, heck the number commonly used, 50 seems a bit....stingy...."
"yes, please."
"it takes my system approximately 25 seconds to animate the fitting screen.animations and cosmetic sound effects make for great computer uis in the movies, but they are annoying in uis that people have to actually use."
"25 seconds?mines less than 5... hell try 3.that's both pc... and mac.>.>"
"confirm."
"common sense."
"the fact isnt that people get petitioned for any other reason other than loose connection. its more that they peition enough that gms have to say something to shut them up."
"is anyone here a gm?can anyone tell me the number of petitions that are a waste of time?anyone here have the authority to tell me that they know how much...oh wait.none of you are.how's it feel to look like a total idiot?this is why this proposal is stupid.until a gm speaks up or ccp says something.. this whole thing is bunk."
"repeatedly and unwarrantedly petitioning people is harassment, and hence is a bannable offense anyway. gm's technically can already punish people for these frivolous petitions.that said, i wouldn't mind some sterner rules akin to rule 11 in real life us law to penalise offenders."
"perhaps if they had a proper support structure like proper companies do gms wouldnt get this?its called helpdesk > 2nd line support > 3rd line support (gms)really its not difficult millions of companies do it..really they do...so not supported until ccp create a proper support structure - imo its their own fault cos gms get crap, it shouldnt even got them in the first place."
"simply calling the people answering petitions something different won't help. there is a first line at least, they're called gms. then, you can escalate to a senior gm when the first line fails to even understand what you're petitioning about. would you prefer it if the gms were called \"helpdesk\" and the senior gms \"gms\"?"
"this did happen to me, and i did respond in kind with a counter-petition.understand this, folks. being baited to talk, and then someone claiming -anything- (threat or not) is a \"real life threat\", and then threatening to petition you for it, is a \"real life threat\" as it is now affecting your livelihood, even if it is only involving 14.95 monetary units of ccp's choice a month.a small explanation of who *i* am for a moment.consider me a \"carebear gone bad\". i've played on pve games since ac1 (if you know the acronym, give yourself a cookie), and i am very used to the people behind the keyboard being people. i ran large guilds, knew people's real names, etcetera. the usual \"carebear\" archetype, stuck in a spaceship and due to rl connections with players, i ended up in a very pirate \"yarrbeary\" corp.the day the incident i was involved in occurred, i discovered a friend of mine from another mmo had committed suicide. the last two people he had spoken to were from his mmo call-list. not professionals. not family. think about that.... for a long, long moment. as this happened there was a candle burning on my desk for the kid.sure, i was smack-talking at first. this is eve, and indeed, space-ships are serious business. but then to have someone tell me they were going to report my account for telling them basically to chill out, calm down, and not end up like my now very real life and very dead friend was a touch wonky to me - and not just me, but other \"third parties\" in system who said flat out, \"sorry, uh, that's not a threat, and not reportable\".and to tell me in such a way as to thank me afterwards, for giving them ammo to use against myself and my corporation to get another ship out of space.screenshots or it didn't happen? i have the screenshots. 5 years of soe games teaches you to screenshot bull**** when you see it.counterpetition? as i said, i did, and in fact stated exactly as the op did - that this was an utter waste of the gm's time and was, in fact, a real life threat to me, and not the original petitioner. my attention was onyl drawn to this thread at this moment as i took time to check my corp forums. i do not visit or read these official forums often.even if it only involves me real life 15 bucks, real life is real life.and then to find out this person lives in the same city as me? okay, maybe i am a little rl nervous now to know someone this insanely vindictive is within 20 miles of me.regardless, i support this. not because i am <lacon>, but because it happened to me.sheesh, i hate posting here for these silly reasons and wish the gms would just respond to me even if it is a form letter to say that they received anything from me in this matter."
"not to be mean but you really didnt make anyone look like an idiot.. but im sure your epeen is nice and firm thinking you did. thats some blue balls aint it.tbh.. this is more a matter of gms having to cater to people who cant fight thier own battles. gms cant voice thier own opinions because they more than likely must be as objective and unopinionated as possible. judges, cops, nurses, firefighters... people who preform roles as servants for other people have to be the same way. should cops complain over the 19th complaint about noise next door? no they cant. they will go ask the nieghbor to please..just do what you can to be quiet.. even if there is no sound coming from that house. thats the point of this thread... thats the point of this issue. we are baited into retorting in local.. then randomly petitioned. i can post chatlogs. first person to start chargin thier keyboard lazers is the same person who petitions us all. and we arent doing anything wrong.. but man if you scream loud enough someone is gonna do something to appease you, aka give warnings... squelch people. its comical. i mean its like we are in a nursery.. and the kid is flickin his nose at us.. so we throw a lego.. petition. c'mon.. just cause someone sucks and thier corp sucks.. and thier alliance sucks.. and their attempt local smack is honestly funnier than carrot top with props... doesnt mean you gotta metagame for your best defense.that being said i know making an rl connection to real jobs and someone babysitting in an internet spaceship game is wierd and loose but it is similar..soo.. yeah about that making us look like an idiot. your firing blanks. again."
"shameless self bump.my proposed changes are similar to astrophobic's in a few key ways, i feel that my changes are superior in several ways, though a combination of both of our ideas may be best. my thoughts:ammo change, swapping fusion and emp - i support swapping fusion with emp as the top damage ammo, but upping the base damage to 48 may make the maelstrom a monster, especially when combined with additional falloff and my proposed 8% increase to artillery damage mod. tiered falloff and + ac falloff - tiered falloff has been long due on minmatar weapons. a 35% increase in the base falloff might be a bit too far for autos though, when you take my tempest changes into account.tempest change - astrophobic's changes would make a mean tempest for taking out with battlecruiser gangs, but would leave it as a relatively poor battleship. by changing its bonuses to 10% damage per level + 5% falloff per level, the tempest goes from 10 effective guns to 9 - a 10% dps loss, on a ship which already has the lowest dps of all battleships (with a reallistic fit) sans the scorpion. i propose instead, giving the tempest a 10% falloff bonus and incorporating the alpha increase for artillery into its ship bonuses (4 turrets, 100% role + 5% dmg per level), which would have a secondary effect of increasing the length of time a clip lasts by dropping the rof bonus. my changes leave the tempest with the same dps as it started with, but with a range bonus, much like the apocalypse received. astro's artillery change - i would rather have the ship bonus dictate how artillery is used. too much alpha can be a bad thing in some cases, such as running missions, and in fleet fights where ships go down in the first 2 volleys already. i feel a better change is giving the tempest an effecitve 8 guns + 25% damage bonus, while leaving the maelstrom with its 8 guns and 25% rof bonus (which gives more dps). the 10% optimal bonus he proposed would not be necessary with the 8% damage mod increase, the slightly increased falloff on 1400's due to their being a higher tier, and the falloff bonus on a tempest. artillery will still not reach out as far as tachs on an apoc, but they will do more dps at their lesser range - which won't be as much less. muninn change - i support astro's muninn change. currently, the deimos is both faster and more agile than the muninn.typhoon change - the typhoon is already a great boat, but i suppose a bit of extra fittings wouldn't hurt. in the early days, having the grid to fit dual reps in its 7 lows with bonused capless weapons would have been too powerful, that probably isn't the case anymore. ----i would like some feedback, perhaps an excellent post or 2 pointing out why astro's proposals have more merit than mine."
"bump"
"bump"
"this is all back of the napkin, but:- the purpose for dropping the rcu is either for a te or for an eanm. my guess is eanm.- seems like 1400s with tremor and 3 gyros would have an alpha of ~3820.i do not believe this is sufficient to fix the problems with minmatar, and the tempest in particular. it is, however, better than things are now (obviously) and has the advantage of having taken baby steps. unfortunately, if ccp has shown us anything, it's that if they do take baby steps, they don't follow up with the second (and required) step.-liang"
"not supported, projectiles are fine. they have epic falloff, are capless, and they sound cooler than any other guns. what really should be addressed is the abysmal state of lasers and ecm."
"lasers and ecm? you found the wrong part of the forum."
"problemas anyone who has ever mined ice knows this system is unimaginative, boring, promotes afk gameplay and it promotes use of macro programs. this is in my eyes bad game design and could do with a makeover to significantly improve it. in this topic i lay out my solution to the process and show several ways how this solution can be reached.solutionthere are several solutions which can be thought of to improve the current situation and make it a maybe more complex process equivalent to other industry processes.the general idea is to change the system from:long mining process -> one-second refinery -> producttoshort mining process -> long refinery -> productgenerally this would be balancing the process towards others ingame such as moon material processing which use reactions to form the product.examplesnow of course there are a lot of ways to make this solution work well, so i've come up with a few of my own:a) ice processing structureadd a structure in game which can process ice. the structure would require a small amount of fuel for maintenance (mechanical parts and robotics) and can be anchored around the sun of the solar system, making it independent from posses.pros:- anchoring means that the invulnerability of starter corps is removed from ice mining as a corp is needed to deploy the structure.- keeps the process open as affording a pos and getting the standings is not required as it is a civilian/industrial installation.- could keep the price in check due to the fact that only a certain amount can be processed.cons:- can end up making the process too cheap.- makes ice mining corps possible griefing targets.- could create bottlenecks and cause massive inflations/deflations.b) ice processing reaction in stationby using a reaction and other tools the ice is slowly processed inside the station into isotopes.pros:- price is still determined by how much people are willing to mine.cons:- keeps the starter corp invulnerability.- provides too much security due to a process which is hidden from any dangers.- keeps the process so that it can be done by 1 man.c) ice processing shipadd a ship which can process the ice mined by the miners, it has a few production lines which can refine ice (has to cost fuel). this process should be done outside of a pos to prevent making the process invulnerable (rp: the radiations which are released within the process cause fluctuations within pos shields). this ship can only operate outside starter corps due to certain hazards for which the npc corporations would not like to be responsible (try at your own risk).pros:- a new ship for eve!- making the ships vulnerable by turning them into unmovable reprocessing plants for a certain amount of time, making it a target for pvp.- promotes teamplay and forces players to move out of npc corps.cons:- causes the ice mining sector to collapse if introduced due to the ship not being available from the start.- makes the ice mining sector harder to get into.conclusion (tl;dr)introduce a new process which refines the ice so that the mining aspect of it becomes less of a mind numbing burden. this can be achieved in several ways as seen at examples.thats all, so please leave your comments, criticism and support."
"still sounds dull. your ideas aren't new or out of the box thinking.plus now rather than griefers attacking barges, they will have to engage in a pos bash.someone mentioned (i believe ccp) that mining was going to get an overhaul with more interactivity in order to mine rocks. something similar with ice would be good."
"i guess it could be like gas cloud mining with the ejected debris that makes up the tail sticking around for a few days before it disperses too much - that's also a semi-realistic (heh eve and realism) explanation for the resource being temporary."
"that can remedy the problem in the short-term, but not really fix it. the problem is that as long as t2 is tied to a rigid generation mechanic which does not allow for players to increase production to meet rising demand, then there will always be shortfalls and inflation (unless the player-base shrinks, in which case you have the opposite problem).also, those solutions will likely result in severe market fluctuations which might potentially destabilize both the market and 0.0 dramatically. for instance, if t2 moon miners were introduced tomorrow, every alliance would install them asap on all their r64s and r32s... the result being a very sudden increase in t2 material supplies and sudden drop in prices. the net effect of such a change would be difficult to protect... but if it either reduced or increased the profitability of r64s and r32s that could have serious repercussions throughout eve (destabilizing massive alliances, etc).markets (whether irl or in-game) depend on a certain degree of flexibility and dependability. the reason that producers of other items in-game are able to consistently meet demand and prices remain largely stable is that the supply can always be increased. as long as the ingredients necessary for t2 mods and ships (essential items used by the majority of players to some degree or another), the market will always be in danger of significant, game-altering fluctuations."
"a while back, i was in a corp called black lancers... one day, we logged on and discovered that our ticker had been changed to [abc] and our old ticker [****z] had been given to another corp called sons of viagra. our ceo then petitioned about it, and a gm told him that our ticker had been taken away and given to another corp. i recently reformed the corp, and petitioned concerning the ticker situation... the petition appears to be being ignored, same as the 2 petitions the old ceo sent.is this a normal occurrence?i wasn't sure where to post this, i tried posting it in the forum about corporations but it won't let me until my corp has more than 10 members.i feel that we were wronged, and now the gm who did it is ignoring us."
"i would kill for a display like the one in that image!"
"make the mwd have a red strike through on it when scrambled."
"player awareness in pvp is rather low. you really fight more on instinct than knowledge. its hard for new players esp."
"1) there are plenty of random name generators around the place.2) use your imagination3) don't rip off names from fiction you've read - you're not original and unique"
"not supported for reasons so obvious everybody else mentioned them at least once already."
"and which money would you have invested on a trial account again, precisely?"
"trials should really be deleted. i bet there are more names taken by unused trials then by paying players"
"i don't have a problem with deleting a trial account over a certain age. since they obviously aren't playing the game, and haven't paid for anything, i'd be alright with that.if anything, it would clean out some of the database nibbles."
"i'd support that, de'veldrin."
"aye"
"i disagree with this. its absolute madness.i am looking at leaving for two years to do a religious service for my church and i really would like to come back from that and still have my beloved blastil waiting there for me."
"naw why not think about mining lazors.if a mining lazor can wtfpawnbbq the toughest asteroid rock in deep space why should it not be able to do dmg to ships.naw if ccp implements this would be a great new game, where carbears will have theeth and pawnzor evry 1, they you would see more carbears in low sec and null sec calling for pirates telling them what belt they are mining at.imagine the scene, pirate warps to belt and tackles miner, miner target pirate and turn off lazors from roid and turns it on the 1337 pirate, reaction would wtf."
"no thank you"
"it should be possible defer corp level settings to set pos agression at an alliance standing level. reason:setting pos standings per corp is a pain in the ass in a large active and changing coalition let alone alliance.there is always some new guy who warps to the wrong 'friendly' pos and gets popped by it.i propose:you should be able to set a pos based on alliance standings so you can set it to agress if they are -ve and/or neutral or if you really want to even if they are blue but out of allaince. this should not overrule if a pos is shot at by said blues!if you wish you can still use the current corp based system but you can set a pos to overrule this with the alliance level standings if you wish.you should also be able to set it so that there are exceptions to the alliance standings (ie neut alts).advantages:makes alliance /coalition ops and logistics much easierdisadvantages:no more 'wah help me your pos is scramming/shooting at me interwebs spacyship'"
"and i support this idea btw :)"
"i don't care about mining really but i'm going to support this to encourage battlestars to create more hilarious hulk/rorqual lossmails"
"i'm supporting this because i've always thought it was odd that veldspar was so profitable to the exclusion of all other ores being mined."
"im a contract dealer and i just wish there was such a skill. im losing alot of isk. today i did put up a 7.8b contract and it costed me 78m on taxes.... wtf"
"i'm unsure how a skill would reduce something government-implemented and non-negotiable as taxes. so no. and 10% is not too high in taxes. if you just made 78 billion isk, you can easily front the 78 million in taxes."
"apearantly you can negotiate the tax for market trades, so why not contracts? personally, i don't really care either way though."
"bump"
"signed to more dmg and/or better multiplier"
"well... one has to be the worst. with current mechanics, tracking gets remedied by optimal/falloff so much that heavy drones (and fighters) rip through 65m-scimitars (correct; shield booster, not extender) unless they fly 0m/s so even dreads can kill them in siege mode -.-but yes, em drones suck globally. but as i said, one has to as the lowest dps unless we get rid of the varying damage modifiers - see fighters.optimals/falloff dont vary below fighters. speed \"has to be\" minmatar even more so with that few hp and no advantage when it comes to signature. tracking comes with that somehow :xso... hp is really the only thing left. boost that plz - all armor obviously which has the nifty side effect of withstanding the officer - or simply less cpu consuming - em smarties a little better.while you're at it, apply the 50% armor em resistance/50% expl shield resistance nerf, will ya..?then probably nerf thm drone hull hp -.-aaaand while we're at it... could expl and kin drones get their hp shifted towards shields a little? just a little. i realize this has an influence on recharge rate, but shield transporters are useless, while rr works great."
"supported"
"there's a lot in this game that confuses me, but system names shouldn't be one of them. please improve the font."
"."
"****"
"/signedbring back the fear of mass capital entrances."
"i want to play fps games on my pc, not on my consoles."
"ccp are making us pay for an expansion under the guise of a new game."
"completely supported. i've also added a thread in the oope forum discussing bringing this information to ccp at pax. fps for console is just a shame."
"yes its so frustrating.this whole bm-copying system has been this way far too long, especially atm with the excessive use of bms in j space, we definatly need a proper bm-copying/corp-bm system."
"definitely supported. add some roles so someone can remove any bookmarks no longer needed, maybe roles on who can and can't use the bookmarks, but even unregulated it gets a thumbs up. would make life so much easier."
"/support in the modified 2 in 48 hours max"
"/signed. 2 seconds is too long."
"supported"
"signed0.1 secondor 0.1 second - 1 au...1 second - 7 au...2 second - 14 au"
"/signed"
"/signed too...terrible for scouts... -.-"
"signedand give us a 3 sec local delay :p"
"signed."
"/supported"
"excellent idea, signed."
"signed :("
"signedi really dont know where ccp get these stupid ideas from sometimes"
"scanning people down before they safespotted and cloaked or moved or otherwise f'd up my whole day was already hard enough. with this crap? well...you better have a probing alt. maybe between both of your alts scanning and some probes you'll be able to catch something."
"it<U+FFFD>s ******! fix it now."
"wait a second...i've spotted the irony. they added a 2s delay to keep people with scanner bot macros from using them to avoid being scanned down/found and killed...which also prevents everyone else from scanning down/findind and killing anything.if anything, they've only succeeded in helping the bots."
"major sign - fix this asap ccp."
"stupid change. annoying as hell.rewind.undo"
"from a node, server, thing that makes you play eve from. not from someone.less lag. ****ty change but if it can make server more speedy..im ok with it. just stfu and adapt...if not, go play wow.. honestly"
"remove 2sec. scanner delay...its evil !!!"
"remove scanner delay... its bad :("
"/signed"
"terrible, terrible idea. please reduce the timer to something managable. even 0.5 seconds would be reasonably okay. but 2 seconds just doesn't work at all."
"signed"
"signed"
"i'll support this.2 sec delay is a horrible break for this tool."
"as a pirate who likes to scout, i would like to see this change reverted, or at least reduced to a reasonable time. half a second would be hugely better and would surely still be better for performance reasons than no delay at all?"
"there is no reason to \"fix\" something that wasn't broken. signed"
"/signedi don't think that so little % of people on tranquility who use scanner in pvp can cause big problems for the entire server."
"/signed. 2 sec is too much for:1. if you're in warp in cov ops/inty/etc and you're scanning.2. if you're scanning fast in a system for ratters, which try to warp to ss and cloak as soon as they see you in local, and you need to scan different belts veryfast at 5/15 degrees scan.3. when you're giving intel to the rest of the gang about enemy fleet movement. every 0.1 sec counts when it comes to tackle."
"/signedccp put this 'fix' in place and then yesterday jita failed and server had to have emergency downtime. so, not much help from this 'fix' => it's not vital => remove it please."
"signed"
"this. signed."
"besides, 'burst' scanner spams helped to find out what has just entered the system (if gate is in range) even if it has covops cloak. now missed rapier can have cost of your ship and pod."
"agree."
"signed for 0.1-0.2 sec delay. and mb key on keyboard for \"scan\"? its will be greatly."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"agreed, delay must be not bigger then 0.1-0.3 sec"
"/signed"
"delay is not helping"
"signed.makes finding stuff much harder."
"signed"
"signed2 secs is toooo long for real pvp. maybe for carebears it's acceptable.."
"thats soo unpleasant!! - scanning someone in space fast is a hard task as it is - now its nearly imposible"
"even 0.5 will be enough/me signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed!"
"signed"
"signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"sighed"
"signed"
"1.0"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"/signed"
"signed."
"/signed"
"\signedat least 0,5 second"
"signed"
"signed!"
"signed"
"yum!"
"would be good."
"supported.also- there is an option to turn down or partially mute turret/launcher audio. it would be great to have a similar checkbox to display subdued visual effects as well, so you don't miss out on any tactical information provided by the effects onscreen, but also don't have sensory overload when many ships are onscreen at the same time."
"i can't hit the \"support this topic:\" checkbox hard enough for this!"
"this"
"yeah, i want to have effects turned on but sb effect makes it unbearable..."
"/supported"
"agreed"
"really minor issue, but this."
"agreed"
"odd, never noticed that."
"war dec mechanics are a total mess and need reworking. ways to avoid war decs need to be closed."
"gogo inconsistency. this clearly is an exploit and should be handled that way. plug those damn holes.i so hope for a overhaul of the wardec mechanics. but then again i'm not sure if ccp might make it worse (as in carebearish)."
"i still have some reservations, but this is overall the best of the suggestions that have been forwarded. you have my support sir."
"very much supported, been flying amarr for years, and started branching off with a vengeance into minnie lately. i love the mix of mobility/firepower, but i can definitely see the shortcomings and i think these ideas would do a lot to fix that."
"i don't fly min, but this seems good to me."
"supported."
"support everything except the ship bonus change on the tempest. it dont need a dps nerf."
"this is an good selution in my oppinion./signed"
"supported"
"/signed"
"i support all proposed changes."
"i'm going to toss my weight behind this one, actually, even though orakkus posted my idea also.good ideas astro."
"/signed"
"do it so"
"i like it but not the ammo change. the entire ammo line should be revamped so that no two kinetic / explosive ammos are in the same ~range. from short to far example:fusion (-50% range), emp, titanium sabot, phased plasma, nuclear (0% range), depleted uranium, proton, carb lead (+60% range)the current setup, for comparison, is:emp (-50%), phased plasma, fusion, titanium sabot, depleted uranium(0%), proton, nuclear, carb lead (+60%)the actual damage numbers would have to be adjusted to fit the new ranges, but these changes would provide actual useful choices in ammo for both acs and artillery. under the proposed ammo setup above, every engagement style would have an ammo useful against shields and against armor."
"signed, i agree on pretty much everything, buffs plox."
"please limit discussion to the ongoing thread in the ships and modules, located here: ships and modules discussion"
"how about a petition i filed 3+ months ago and got this email said it was closed.that petition isn't in my list of previous petitions so its simply removed.what gives?haven't got the faintest clue why and what happened but i do know players have to keep indicating ccp's customer service still can be improved on."
"the damage numbers in killmails bear no relation to reality. the most cursory inspection of combat logs shows this."
"not feasible.ban by external ip address? just reboot router for a new one.ban by internal ip or mac address? they aren't available to the forum web server and even if they were it takes 10 seconds to change them.if you dislike trolls just ignore them."
"nonsense - they're exactly comparable. in both cases, you have something that's random, and that will occasionally make you happy or sad depending on how your luck is running, but that in the aggregate regresses to the mean quickly enough that there's no pressing reason to give a damn. you take your jams and don't worry, you take spare crystals and don't worry. this change would make almost zero difference, unless you're crazy and fly with breakable crystals and no spares. and if you do that, you deserve to be in exactly the same boat as anyone else who doesn't bring spare ammo to a fight. you're making a mountain out of a molehill."
"easy for you to support it because your ammo only cost 10.00 - 2k isk per shot and those shots are guaranteed to cause some hurt.with charges like hybrid, missiles and projectile. you've got a rough idea you can fight for before retreating for some more ammo, same with crystal damage. with this idea, you'll have no idea how long your crystals will last or how long you'll be able to fight for.so no, not supported."
"\"no idea\"? please. assuming 1/1000 break chance, one spare crystal gives you a 99% chance of making 436 shots without breaking. two spares, 824 shots. 10 spares, 5431 shots. and if you're worried about the other 1%, you don't really need to be - you still have a 99.9% of 4046 shots, or a 99.99% chance of 3116 shots. you have a better chance of losing the fight due to a power outage than you do of getting less than 3000 shots off your 10 spares. and remember, there's the ones that go for 5000 shots without breaking to compensate you. also, what fancy-crystal fit doesn't fit t1 crystals for backup? you'll still be able to fight even if every single one breaks. that's not literally true of dreads, but dreads don't fight solo, and when you apply these numbers to fleets, they're indistinguishable from the status quo. seriously people, regression to the mean is more powerful than you're giving it credit for. just because something is random does not make it unpredictable."
"seems sensible."
"agreed with the second and third point. the first never really bothered me but it would be very nice for some to have a direct load option."
"all solid ideas that lead to greater ease of use."
"supported.in my dealings with gm's i've received very good and timely service. i would imagine a lot of people abuse the petition system, and it should be changed to the same procedure as a request for reinforcing a system - for false petition you get punishment up to being banhammered."
"sad story, but the cure was exactly what here is presented as the source of all evils. so what it is? evil when the other petition you, good when you petition the others?and btw, this \"and then to find out this person lives in the same city as me? okay, maybe i am a little rl nervous now to know someone this insanely vindictive is within 20 miles of me.\" mean you have searched for rl information on this guy. that you fell the need to do that about a person in a internet game see extremely scary.you are baited. if you know that why you reply?and as in rl being provoked is no reason for a greater assault.between \"self defense\" and \"aggressing back\" there is a gulf. if your reaction is so strong that you get a warning and the \"baiter\" don't get it maybe you reaction is excessive?reading your corp post i have a very hard time thinking that your are always baited without any fault on your part. my impression is that you are so used to using heavy handed expressions and behaviors between your group of friends that you don't know or don't respect the limits when you speak with strangers."
"supported"
"wrong. please do not make negative and insulting comments about who i am based on your assumptions about, apparently, the people you normally interact with. i did not do this to you, please have courtesy in this public venue. it was announced in local, is known by several people in the \"area\" (celestial area of game who interacts with the thems in question), and was brought to my attention by my corpmates as this individual, if i am remembering correctly, used to be rather fond of making the rl threats they are now busy making new accounts to report them from. excuse me for not dumping all of one's private business into a public forum where is does not belong, hmm?please do not make negative, overwhelming, stereotyping and heavy handed assumptions about the behaviors of every person in our alliance based posts from the ones who normally post in these forums. i despise being blacklisted, and again you are making assumptions about who we are and how we act based on an alliance tag which covers quite a few individuals..as a note - i did not receive a warning for my alleged violation of eula. why?because i didn't violate the eula.i am simply this due to the fact that this, as i said, happened to me and is an utter waste of a gm's time.(edited for typing faulires. <-- surprise!)"
"supported.although i think the gms do already ask certain players to not post obvious redundant/overreacting petitions after the player has files a certain amount of them."
"good to know - thank you nika :)"
"note who i quoted. if you feel offended for generalizations, don't do the same. i do generalizations based on what they write in this thread. i take the example i see (those here and in other section of this same forum) and extrapolate from there.it is fully possible there is a less vocal majority, but the post i see give me a very negative opinion.the thread based on the thread title would be worth supporting, but not based on the argument and most of the examples used.this is hardly an argument about useless gm petitions like most of the ship reimbursement requests. the whole thread is arguing against people petitioning perceived verbal harassment in game. caldinea, if this idea was somewhat accepted by ccp you \"counter-petition\" would have been labeled as useless by the parameter suggested here."
"oh hai there,fille here. you know what, i heard you say this:oh rly? then why did you get a warning? you got a warning because you didn't violate the eula? that has never happened to me, and you are the first person i've met that has told me so. so i hope you'll forgive me for not believing you for now.after all, it's almost like you're saying: \"...and aliens are coming to melt our brains. we have to do something!!!11one11!!1!1!!eleven!!\".there is no indication of any real issue in this thread. if you feel that it's unfair that people are threatening with petitions, then petition them with the chatlog attached.fille/thread"
"qft/qftw"
"is quoting the second sentence and not the first when everyone else can use the scroll-up function to see what i actually wrote a useful tactic?i did not receive a warning.must i repeat myself for selective readers?"
"and as an addition, considering the responses to this thread that are rather abrasive and to be honest, useless to my very specific and personal situation, i will wait until a gm responds, in game the community here save one or two individuals (speaking in regards to those not associated with my alliance even) seems to simply be using this thread as an excuse to bash.yes, some of my corpmates and alliancemates can be abrasive. well! considering what i have seen so far of the public forums this is likely because it is normal behavior! so, um... yes, insert scathing comments here sprinked with a disguise of thesaurus-based intelligence here so i fit in.this will be my last statement on the matter save to an actual member of ccp staff; volunteer or otherwise."
"the one getting the warnings was anderson williams."
"lol...let me disect the word we.. meaning more than one person.. meaning a group of people. i never said i got a warning. lol. ive never been warned before.. i was squelched a year ago.. lol wow. yeah your just not keepin up with this conversation are you."
"either i realy suck at searching or this actually hasnt been posted beforeor maybe everyone knows something i dont (if so enlightrn me please)so the proposal is simplemake containers in pos hangars openable if a person has the \"take container\" rightsit's annoying i have to board an indy to pick up a gsc to open it, why cant i open it while it's in the hangar"
"yes indeed. i should have proposed this myself decades ago, but i forgot./support"
"it's even more annoying when you don't have anything but a frigate handy. please let us open our containers inside the hangar."
"yes, the status quo is utterly absurd."
"/support"
"not supportedif you implement a warning, there is no need for the loss mechanic in the first place. some risk for your mistakes do has to stay as is. (yes, i would like less warnings in the game as in: remove low-sec warning as well)"
"/support"
"agree"
"extra low slot and grid buff"
"gold!would also add something new to the economical side of eve. what do you think?"
"not supported."
"i think you should stop posting now and back away from the keyboard.gold...seriously. are you stoned or something?"
"does this proposal provide any advantages that your wallet does not? i don't see any, and i can't really imagine any that would justify such an odd system, and as such i don't support it."
"why?"
"not needed. just like in the real world, you can buy various goods / minerals to store your isk.it makes no sense, but if it makes you feel better buy up all the tritanium you can get your hands on.or if you wanna get close to the gold, buy platinum"
"not supported. if you need to \"hide\" your isk, go buy plexcards or transfer it to a banking alt. alternativly, you can send it to me and i'll keep it safe for you..."
"+4 axes /w magic find !! ftw.. ?"
"the advantage would be that if you somehow got your account hacked, all your isk isn't just magically siphoned off (as long as you store it in safe place). as an item gold would allow you to get back the exact amount of isk that you put into gold when you resell it to the npc banks (unlike plexes and faction items whose price is subject to market conditions). possibly you could do other things with gold.plus pirates love gold.ditto for you"
"here's a thought. don't be a dumbass when it comes to your account security."
"whats to stop said hacker from getting your gold?go back to wow where you came from.i've never had a problem... course i don't buy isk either."
"doesn't ccp return your stuff if a hacker gets into your account and steals your things? besides, they can steal the gold just as easily as they can steal the isk - private contracts are wonderful things. and no, you couldn't do other things with it - an isk-equivalent asset has no interesting economic features whatsoever. it'd be a poor substitute for cash."
"at this point, stop play eve and go play wow. they got gold and ****ty gameplay"
"there are already precious commodities that you can invest in and store. there is no need for this.if you are concerned that your account may be compromised:1. do not visit websites that conduct sales of isk or other in game items for real world money. it is not only a violation of the eula, it's plain foolish from a security standpoint.2. do not visit external links from the eve forum unless you know and trust the destination site.3. do not give out your account information, to anyone, for any reason. 4. do change your password periodically.these are all things that should be common sense and provide plenty of security for you account without resorting to investment in commodities to shelter your assets from hackers.not supported."
"added to this list:5. don't use the same username/password for forum sites, etc, that you use for eve."
"would increase the cost of amarr ships not supported"
"rotflmao!!!!"
"i hadn't thought about this at all.is it too late to change my vote to yes?"
"lol"
"i would welcome a new mining system with open arms but as it stands this seems unlikely within a year timespawn. the winter expansion will be geared towards a new sovereignty system and thus making the promised industrial expansion more than 1 year later than it should have been released. so i believe a total overhaul of the system is still some time away.however i still believe that the ice mining process should move away from the macro provoking system it's now. i have started this thread specifically towards a solution which changes the process of the profession without the need for a complete overhaul.my idea are not really innovative or new and i have seen some excellent suggestions on the boards but most if not all have disappeared under a ton of other topics, which is a shame. however the main idea is just to change the process around by making mining times short and processing times long. i have outlined a few simple options how this could be done.the structure i proposed is not a pos module but more a standalone building which has no defensive structures. this will make it vulnerable to attacks meaning you will actually have to defend it and it will keep the ice mining industry open for anyone as you don't need standings or a load of money to place, maintain and buy it. for anyone who can't afford the structure from the start i think others could see opportunities to exploit this and offer their services."
"i support akita's ideas"
"posting in a supporting an akita thread."
"this gets my vote"
"i think it still needs some tweaks to the moon min output numbers, but it's otherwise a very good suggestion. supported."
"very much supported, price stability is a good thing, as is a general decrease in t2 costs."
"i like this, not only will it open the t2 production market to smaller scale corporations but it will also give the bigger alliance who own the entire market with their moons some more competition next to adding an actually interesting dimension into the mining profession."
"this doesn't make mining any more interesting, and high-end ores have never had a problem with their value getting too low, meaning that they don't need the price supports. while i appreciate the thought, i don't believe that this is the correct solution to either problem."
"supporting a proposal which both limits moon profitability and decreases t2 prices."
"not especially. alchemy increases the hard cap somewhat, but it doesn't remove it or even really delay it. in practice, the gains from alchemy mostly went towards making the exploit removal not blow up the market entirely, and in replacing the cheater's dysporite. my goal is to make it so that there is no more of a cap on the game's supply of dysprosium than there is of tritanium. moons should still exist, and they should still be relevant and profitable, but the game shouldn't be forced to have a major segment of the market labour under a hard cap that was set in a different era and that is far too low for modern t2 production."
"of all the solutions, alchemy is a dead-end and should not be pursued any further:- it does not fix the scaling issues and is already almost running near maximum capacity.- the current formulae do not fix the material type issues that made it necessary in the first place. dysprosium and promethium were required in excessive amounts by complex reactions, the replacements for their outputs require excessive amounts of cadmium and chromium instead.- moon mining rewards land races much more than it rewards individual effort. what effort is spent on it is spent in the most tedious fashion imaginable. the less emphasis put on it, the better.i proposed my own solution to this, which is reacting asteroid ores into t2 materials, a solution with many secondary benefits and built-in market-based controls to the potential negative effects (i.e. oversupply).thread here:"
"supporting what hersh said. put some moon mins in roids or something. maybe in belt rat loot. don't care really. as long as it's not only available from moons.just say no to static resources in mmo's!"
"seems like a good idea, but not really the answer for this topic ^^the wh space one is really good, comet or perhaps a mini-moon harvester"
"a response by gm would be appropriate, but if it ever comes to you, it will be in-game."
"thats rediculous, ccp respond here plz"
"assembly hall isn't a place for this. demand a senior gm response to the petition, so you get a reply why this happened. if you are still not getting a response, contact internal affairs about the issue. \"internal affairs is a division of ccp's research and statistics department.if you have a reasonable suspicion that an employee is abusing his/her position in some way in the game, you can contact internal affairs directly by sending an e-mail to internalaffairs@ccpgames.com .please note that petitions are not a tool to contact internal affairs.keep in mind that if such matters are to be investigated, you will need to include some solid evidence within your mail. \""
"gm shouldn't be fiddeling with corp tickers but do more usefull things.another example to support thiscompetence of the gm department (revised)"
"yeah that's what i am afraid of... i have no evidence, except for what they may or may not be able to see if there's any sort of history or records they can look at.i got a response to my petition concerning this, and it seems like they ignored what i told them, and tried telling me that my corp has always had the same ticker. so i replied and once again stressed that i reopened my old corp, and the old corp was where the wrongdoing took place."
"that'd pretty much be the status quo, yes. it'd still pretty much be the case even if corporate security were sane, for that matter - roles imply trust, and always will. still, that's not an excuse for poor game design. trust should not be binary between \"can't build a hobgoblin\" and \"can untraceably kill titans\". just because workarounds exist for the problem doesn't mean that it's not a problem."
"thats not the point..idiot or saboteur or not...its just more options to give or stop access.. thats all."
"for the unfamiliar, the problem is that installing a job at a pos requires installing it as a corporation job. installing a corporation job requires the factory manager role. the factory manager role also lets you cancel any corporation job, resulting in the loss of all of the construction material in the process. it leaves no trail, so even if someone screws your entire production line, it's not possible to know who did it.this make it utterly impossible to run a construction corp without an extreme level of trust.the game already tracks who installed corp jobs (which is why you can right-click on the jobs and it will show you who installed it), so the only thing they really need to do is add a \"factory operator\" role or something that allows you to install jobs, but only cancel ones you installed."
"this seems to address ccp's server concerns while allowing for old-style scanning. supported."
"really?let's see the idea again:and how it will work on practice:attacker: i have 20 quick scan, no problem i will get every target way faster. gooddefender: i need to scan constantly for hostiles and probes. ops, my scanner has overheated, now i can't use it for 20 or 40 seconds while it cool down (and it will become even worse if this is the prelude to removing local in 0.0).so instead of \"everyones a winner\" we have \"the attacker get the advantage\". not supported."
"the defender doesnt need to scan in quick succession, he only wants to know if something is on 360 and log off once he finds ships or probes."
"seeing how probes with the help of a directional scanner can get a 100% hit in less than 6 seconds, the defender need to scan at least every 3 seconds."
"usually probes need to travel, that doesnt happen instantly. but agreed, one scan every 3-4 seconds is perfectly fine for the defender, so where is the problem again?apart from giving the attacker a chance as well?edit: in case you didnt understand the op idea, you would be able to constantly scan every 2 seconds without overheating the thing."
"using the numbers in the op, you'd be able to scan once per 2 seconds without worrying, but non-use for 40 seconds would build up a buffer of 20 scans you could use in quick succession if you needed to. on the whole it'd take off the server spamming that ccp worries about, but it'd also let players do a flurry to find someone."
"i can only think of tie fighter game when i see this thread. just a circle which represents your range of scan and some dots here and there that represents objects. the scan would be automatic. the circle would be 360 but would be cut like a pie of course if you turn it down lower let say to 90 or 15 for example. since you dont have to scan you might have a \"feeling\" that its faster....but its just an illusion since you dont have to think about it."
"supported"
"aye.anything that makes reading the hud faster and easier is a good thing. i have so many columns and rows and chat boxes and target information on my screen i will look upon any move that makes the most important tidbits stand out with gratitude."
"it would indeed. /me stands on soapbox and rants about the beauty of a moddable ui."
"edit: just realized that this completely fails because you want to know who is doing what.however i do support adding a distinction: the \"you are being scrambled\" icon is darker blue, just like the warp scrambler i is darker blue than the warp disruptr i, and the tooltip when you mouseover shows whether you're being scrambled or disrupted."
"never."
"what, somebody had thought of 'darth vader' already!!?? wow, i wish i'd thought of that one. i wonder where he got his inspiration from....maybe you could use lotr characters instead, i dunno"
"anyone that tries to name their character darth vader should be banned from playing. have some imagination dammit."
"are you a programmer? no? then stop trying to post like you know things.all in all, your idea is poorly thought out and generally bad."
"this has already been proposed and taken to ccp."
"the ds is already used to do similar things to combat probes. there's no obvious reason why it couldn't be made better at it, as long as it doesn't give you 100% hits. i don't think that this is the solution, but it's not inherently wrong."
"the original idea can be found here:"
"it was brought to ccp a while back, they said it was too much work, or something to that effect.personally i think that's a lazy excuse for something that would make the game oh so much better, but oh well."
"why can't we just reduce the amount of high sec minerals required for industry?tritanium is by and far the most required mineral for industry. lets reduce the amount of trit needed and increase the amount of null sec minerals required. tip the scales towards low and null sec mineral necessity."
"supported because i would love to have a reason for my multiple millions of sp invested in both high end ore refining and mining go to good use."
"/signed"
"that tax is probably the only drawback suffered by contract scamming alts. leave it there. :p"
"well i had a fort 2day while workin is every flys the same ship in cap fights dreads or carriers and even then theres only 1 type of dread for each race ok well u get carrier then mother ship thts cool but mother ship is like a titan a major force so what about a sub capital assult ship that can float in and out of high sec n low sec and 0.0 and be a ship to be designed 2 take down dreads and carrier and titans and make like 2 couple of version for each race soo we see different and more vaerity in fleet fights they would hva 2 be big enough so that cap ships can attack and hit it but not so big that its classed as a cap so that it can pass thorugh gates like a freighter can need lots of fire power and be a major thing and change hole lot cus high sec allainces can acctually move on to 0.0 system wit these ships and send there sub caps 2 take them on but they would need weakness,and that but the idea i fort was gd what u rekon if better place 2 post this plz say lol"
"nothing about skill to pilot covertor versus hulk"
"while it is a valid issue, the above thread is not posted in the assembly hall forum and as such cannot be brought to the csm. i suggest you make an assembly hall thread about this to get it raised in the next meeting :)"
"while the above thread was not posted... it has been posted at least 3 times in my memory in assembly hall.. each one ignored apparently.do a google for it and you'll find one mentioned in late 2008.ps: \o/ skill injection made it to the list! yay"
