"right now, not getting an aggression timer on remote repair is the single most risk-free thing in the game. it allows you to gain significant advantages without risking anything, and it's actually worse in 0.0 and lowsec (dock hugging capitals). there is nothing 'predictable' about it, you can still turn the tides by using neutral remote repair, you just need to do it in a ship that can tank your aggressors for 60 seconds, capable of fighting them back, or organise multiple neutral remote repair characters to keep themselves up. i implore you to take a look at dodixie undock for an hour, for quite possibly the best example in the game for how risk free, and how utterly brainless this is. watch how slaved faction ships get remote repair from untanked exequror/guardian alts to bail them out when a canbait goes wrong, and someone actually tries to outplay them, i gurantee you almost every single time, a fight in dodixie between two prominent pvp corps instantly become brainless stalemates as each side as multiple logistics repairing them. with the proposed changes, you actually need to strategically plan the use of remote repair, instead of brainless, oh lol im dying alt+tab bull**** which is happening right now."
"honestly, this mechanic is a part of eve. eve is not a universe where you get to carebear yourself from pve to pvp.remote rep as it is, turns the tide in any and all fights. you add the aggression timer, you wreck it for those who do for the heck of doing it. \"oh-noes! he isnt as honourable or as risky a player as i think he should be, nerf his playstyle!\" even then, many people, especially those in dedicated high sec pvp corps, already have or will get multiple rr dedicted toons and pilots, and will therefore make your new fix obsolete. so what if you shoot my repper, i'll just get the other one to rep him. you still lose. those who do it are playing a risk-free game, but why do you care? everything you do in a game cannot have risks to it. what if they put scrams in every pve mission? no more of that warp-out, rep/cap up, warp back in crap. stand and fight those rats! what if we had bs rats warping around systems, or considerably threatening rat fleets randomly warping about systems, killing anything they come into lock range with. that would fix those macro miners!your propsed reasoning suitonia, is that the current use of remote rep is not sophisticated enough (in essence). honestly, if someone takes my can and it says 1v1, it is honoured, if an anonymous person reps either, i expect the opponent and me to de-aggress as the fight is no longer what we had aggreed to. if your idiot enough to not set a mutual aggrement and assume (which makes an ass-out-of-u-and-me) that its a 1v1 without rep or corp help, lose your ship and learn your lesson. this mechanic is only truly abused in 1v1s and canbaits.regardless of how brainless, or whatever you want to call it, anonymous rr is, aggression timers are intended for those who have directly engaged in combat with another player within the bounds of concord. if i rep someone fighting, i have not directly aggressed and therefore should remain free to dock. i still get aggression, so the other player could simply fly over, bump my rr off station/gate, and proceed with destroying my rr ship. considering logi ships go from 80-100mil, without fittings, killing that would be much more of an award than the guy using it about 60-70% of the time.particularily, i believe suitonia's arguements of the lack of brains and \"strategy\" that surrounds the \"abuse\" of this mechanic are unfair. just because people do not desire to risk losing ships they have worked hard to get, does not mean you just get to go about and nerf something because its not as noble or risky as what you do, is a terrible reason to do it.you and a friend go play soccer (or football, my apologies, canadian here), the idea coming from your friend \"hey lets go play soccer!\" you two arrive, set up some agreeable nets, and begin playing. some random comes along and starts playing goalie in your friends net. \"wtf omg so not fair, no strat in that!\": this is your response. do you run off to court to get this random's actions outlawed so that \"no-more of this bull**** wrecks anyone else's competition\", your proposal would be throw out before you got in. go get your own goalie, or if you believe you can get away with it, beat the **** out his goalie.these proposed changes will only force people to either slightly organise their rr (pm-hey if i get shot you rep me and vice versa?), or get more rr. which in the end only really benefits ccp as they get more income through more pilots.in the instance of what the op posted about the wt baiting him, shoot the f'ing rr and bump it, when he jumps, turn and kick the other guy's ass. if you cant do that, dont engage.rather, just get your own rr and win anyways cause you can kill him. takes an invited char only about 10 days to fly an exequror with 3 medium remote armor repairer ii, and the t2 cap mods to make it stable. that makes 11 days of usable free time before you should activate it (plex's ftw) and get in an oneiros/guardian."
"btw, your attempts of de-douchbaging dodixie by, initally, getting into fights you were destined to lose, then when someone is nice enough to rr you so that you can start winning or coming even, you shoot them and bring concord down on both of you, is so much more of an lowblow its almost not funny. however, your newest tactic of taking a fleet issue stabber (with what isk?) and slamming around in an mwd bumping anyone that sits on the undock of dodixie station is such a great way to go about it. assmoving someone else's assmove doesnt make you a righteous crusader of good-will. it takes you down to their level, if not lower.if you cannot live with this, there are thousands of other mmo's out there. maybe mortal online, where anyone that leaves the town safezone can be killed by anyone else is more to your style. regardless, being a superhero by going about taking justice into your own hands usually only works when you have superpowers. like a gm. let them make the decisions based on our opinions and discussion. until then, the game is the way they believe it should be. stop biatching, we're not here to do things your way, we're here to play eve cause here the universe is ours."
"yeah but designing pvp based on what happens at dodixie or jita is a bad idea.this proposal would ruin the effectiveness of logi cruisers and spider tank setups game wide.if there a problem outside dod its more to do with lame ass agression flagging rules rather than logi'sremove aggression flagging for taking from cans ( end of problem ).i pretty sure what you descibe is as annoying as hell , but at the end of the day the player is not commiting an agressive act.whether my reps come from a buddy or from a local fitted rep is irrelevant.imagine 2 domis ( rr ) fighting 2 domis ( local reps ) on a gate.under the proposed changes.the local repped domi's can deagress and keep repping for 60 seconds till they can jump out.the rr domi's cant deagress without switching off there repping.basically this proposal would screw over all legitimate uses of logi's and spider tanks and for what?to make can-baiting an even safer form of predicatable pvp without risk of your target tricking you with a docked logicruiser."
"seems reasonable, supported."
"i used to like the csm. turns out they're all a right bunch of humourless munters. in game.have you considered launching a coup mazz?"
"this is my post extracted from this threadit is a proposal to adjust and further update some of the graphical effects in eve. i feel there would be a good deal of player base support in updating some of the game mechanic effects.full screen anti-aliasingyes, this should be pretty standard, right?randomized impact points over a model's hulla miss is a miss - so the damn beam should miss. not hit the exact same spot as if it was a wrecking shot. i'd also like to see differentiated impact effects for applied damage types and what they're hitting. shields should fizz and pop in a bubble around the ship, armor should flex and glow as it redirects the impact energy, and structure should flash and explode as it gets destroyed. i don't feel this would increase server load as the miss/hit chance calculation has already been performed, and the client already knows whether or not a ship is in shields/armor/structure. in other words, it seems that most if not all of this would be a client side fx update dependent on data that is already there.damage skinsas a ship gets more beat up, the hull should look like its taking damage. scratches appear on the paintwork and when things get really bad, superstructure jutting out. it would be great if some of these marks were even permanent- older ships look progressively more beat up the longer you keep them alive! damage skins already exist for some models even - when you kill a supercap, you get a hulk. this would go well with-bonus points for a number of different damage skins/fx for each ship.wrecks that look like the ships they were from.bigger ships = more bits. want the melted cap consoles? look in the reactor section of the that apocalypse... want targeting computers? look in the upper section of the scorpion hull that broke off over there....some of the assets already seem to have been created (see the ship graveyards in luminaire, fore instance)this would also make creation of such epic debris fields far more dynamic. much more varied and interesting than tractor. salvage. fail. fail. fail... conductive polymer fffuuuuuu~sentry dronesi would actually like to see them shooting. not a tiny hint of a sparkle. i want to see bouncers spitting out tracer rounds, gardes mashing things at close range with their blaster plasma and wardens throwing rail slugs out to extreme ranges. not a badly scaled plane with a dumb texture map that shows up on the screen as a barely noticeable twinkle.clouds, nebula effectslook awful, and just plain annoying. i'm sure there are better systems than using an over-sized sprite for this effect by now. these nebula effects actually get in the way, in many respects and as they currently stand i'm sure most people would turn them off if they could. more and varied props - increased interactivitycan we start being able to blow chunks out of asteroids and derelict stations now? how about live stations... how about watching that pos fracture and fly apart in a more physically correct manner rather than a big dumb boom.warping through planetsmake a ship's warp trajectory follow a 3-point spline that avoids any celestial objects. instead of warping through a planet or station, the ship would follow an elegant curve. hell, if you wanted to be really clever you could even introduce some minor orbital mechanics (gravity etc.) to alter the warp speed slightly... more tactical options open up.railgunslook weedy (and are weedy but that's another very long topic)blasterslook a bit weedydid i mention railguns and blasters look weedy?(yes, i am trying to make a point here)stations and capshipstextures are starting to look a little dated."
"impact points - these would be cool, and would go well along with the damaged hull. when you hit the right side several times, it should look like it's taken a beating compared to the left side.detailed wrecks - this i'm not too sure we really need. i mean sure, more detail would be nice. but wrecks aren't around for too long before being picked clean and despawned. and if large ships broke into several pieces, each of which needed to be salvaged separately before you got all your goodies, it'd take too long.clouds - i agree wholeheartedly, these need to go away. replace them with more space stuff, or leave them out completely. all too often, my lag will spike for no other reason than i'm zoomed in too close and passing through some random cloud. zooming so far out all i see is red marks surrounding a white square speeds things right back up.interactive structures - this i'd like to see as well. for one thing, mining a planet sized asteroid for the 5 bits of ore it has left. or mining a tiny speck of rock for the 500,000 it started with. asteroids should shrink as they are mined down.warping through stuff - i've had a few thoughts on this. namely, using some sort of \"hyperspace\" approach to warping. instead of seeing all of space around you, replace it with a more opaque tunnel effect. then you won't see yourself flying through things.stations and caps - sure, why not! just so long as they don't make any more helios = turd with a kickstand changes."
"dear csm,i generally support that, but i really have to say that fsaa is much more important.maybe the thread opener forget that because aa is a standard no. 1 after af."
"edited out extraneous stuff and added fsaa suggestion :)"
"ogogov +1 +1 +1first thing, fsaa doesn't work for you? works for me 8xmsaa with gtx295.seriously, any graphical candy and any more graphical accuracy that lends itself toward more life-like/real/genuine-article visual representations is going to increase immersion and make me want to play/live/relax in the eve in-game world.do not under estimate \"pretty\".i mean look at the total fail that is mw2 and yet... i can't stop playing it cause its so damn gorgeous.my only other comment would be toward:warping through stuff - if the diameter of a planet/moon/sun/whatever is in an intersecting path... do not display it as you warp. simple. then it doesn't look dumb. if the planet is next to a station you're warping in to, have the 'non-displayed objects while warping' fade or whatever, back in to existence near the end of warp. anything is better than flying a ship through a solid object (noclip 1).or do via points. so your warp computer actually \"seems to\" calculate multiple points around obstacles.supported"
"cwe can have normal warp having in the background, on the server,,but have a cirved [ath displayed to a player. can wecut noclip 1 pz?"
"i think this fits nicely with a lot of the other \"rework older stuff\" to make it cooler and working stuff."
"you heard correctly, but that's attribute remap, not skill points."
"-1a terrible idea. you might as well give everyone lvl 5 in everything from day one and then there will be no more difficult choices and no consequences."
"i am adding this to my list of stuff to raise"
"capslock is cruise control for cool. double clicking the enemy you want to target is a cruise engine headed right into the enemy fleet."
"stop it mazz. you're scaring me now.also supported."
"i've once lost a ferox because of this. fix please :("
"my mouse is damaged ant it double clicks sometimes, i support it fully."
"fully supported, when it happens it annoys the hell out of me (especially when i'm spam clicking to get lock on target) ;)"
"good idea. smarter shortcuts are always nice."
"fix = select the target then spam the lock button on the selected item window.removeing the approach on double click will make it doubly difficult to uncloak cloaky ships jumping into your gate camp.is this really what you want ?"
"option plz"
"yes, fixing fw would be a good idea."
"ccp, by doing this you will be taking the first step down a path that has ruined many good games. so far you have created, maintained, and improved the most in-depth and sandbox oriented mmo in the world. please do not ruin it with a move like this.edit for gammar."
"supported, unless there would be some reasonable limit, like once a year it would only make rich players always train at maximum speed."
"wtf ccp ~~~!"
"wtf ccp!!"
"signed"
"wtf ccp ??"
"most definitely approved, its a chore to click a few hundred times per character..."
"/signed"
"i would settle for being able to use ctrl-click to select multiple extractors, and then set a cycle time.and how about if you have run a scan the extractor remembers the last scan if you click on something else before you set the extractor cycle? why do you have to scan twice!"
"haven't read every post on the prior pages, so i apologise if some of this has already been discussed.#3 blackmarketsblackmarket items should definitely include items that are illegal to use in hi sec. some more ideas here:"
"proposal:make the eve map open in its own floating window.instead of taking over your whole client's screen the map would now load in its own resizable and moveable window.this window would also be able to be minimized.this feature would need to be able to be toggled on or off.pros:you could move the map around resizing it at will, while still being able to see/ do other important stuff ie. you could look at the eve map and spin your ship simultaneouslycons:programming and work may be required. other:while there are many cool things you could do with the eve map, this proposal is not for discussion on what this menu would look like, what controls it would have nor any new features it could have and is intended to see how much interest there is in a windowed eve map. if there is another post on this i couldn't find it, sorry.this idea was brought up by helicity on shc and has been discussed internally with the csm.-t'amberplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"at the very least, it would be a nice optional feature."
"as we've discussed, this is a great idea! should also be able to be minimized like any other floating window."
"preferably remember the window size/location."
"if it's possible, why not. +1"
"this idea is pretty simple but covers an annoying issue.. look around your favorite station.. do you see a can floating in the distance or do you see many..can litter got so bad that ccp actually changed how the can works in order to cut back on litter.. since most cans are placed as adverts for some corp or to show a web-page were you can buy another corps items it seems that this fix would have been done long ago.. to me it seems this simple, use billboards... billboards.. it seems in a product driven world we would see more of these.. in reality they are everywhere every intersection every stop light even in the middle of nowhere.. in eve we only see them at the gates.. we get our news from them and see adverts for quafe and pirates.. this idea expands on that already existing technology. 1. place a billboard near the exit point for each station. pretty simple. 2. let the ceo of the corp set up adverts for their corp..not so simple. simular to how an office is rented , an advert on the billboard can be rented with a simple corp logo (already found in game) and a few characters of print that can be custom ( barring rude, lude or otherwise foul words). 20 to 30 letters should be enough to get a simple point across to the reader. (linking to the corp office can be done but for now keep it simple). the cost would be based simular to the office rental the more ppl in a system the higher the price and space can be limited just like office space is. the point will be to provide an area for players and corps to be creative and as the idea catches on only the poor corps will use cans to advert themselves, sence the desire would be to have a picture (logo) and a few words. this can be expanded even further with link capable text or direct links to the browser. also showing join tabs or a simple list of the spaces. limits could include only one corp advert per system or per board. and of course wording with in the limits of public conduct and under ccp control..the future could be opened widely to contracts in the region, low cost market items and much more. but to get started with the basic idea, a corp logo and custom lettering. is what we wish to get started. so hands up what do you think"
"this idea, regardless of its quality, could be implemented only if ccp finds the lines for billboard code amongst the millions in the database.yes, the billboard code lines are lost. even ccp doesn't know where they are or how to adjust them."
"seems a good idea. +1"
"yes please!!!!"
"what's more to say than that i like it?"
"same for me, approved approved approved! same for op ofc!"
"for sure.i look forward to this feature after another 15 months of patches that break 10 different features while aspiring to fix none. will i be able to view these explosions out the station window while i am getting my hair cut by a chick with a fat wang?check back in 2013 and we'll find out!"
"i endorse this product and/or service."
"but will it run on 10yr old dx9 consoles? :o(that's an exaggeration)ogogov +1 +1 +1seriously, any graphical candy and any more graphical accuracy that lends itself toward more life-like/real/genuine-article visual representations is going to increase immersion and make me want to play/live/relax in the eve in-game world.do not under estimate \"pretty\".i mean look at the total fail that is mw2 and yet... i can't stop playing it cause its so damn gorgeous.supported"
"so moon minerals and mining are the flavour of the month got it. well if there are something in eve you want then go take it, if you dont have the muscle to do it on your own get some friends and band together. this is eve and not hallo kitty online."
"it's not kitty online, but it's not black diamonds online either. spread tec reasonably please,"
"not really sure how this works, but one thing that has irritated me and prolly a lot of you as well, is the fact that there is no actual way to counter a cloaking device. its kinda annoying that someone can sit in a system all day, everyday, cloaked, and the only 2 ways you can actually catch them is when they start there attack, or when the log in and out or leave the system. and all of these has a very low window of chances to catch them. there should be a viable anti cloaking mechanism in the game, something to at least prevent someone from being afk while cloaked. in the real world, if there was a group that had some sort of cloaking technology there would be a way to counter it, either by detecting there engine exhaust, change in radiation, or someway that if you really worked at it you could catch and kill a cloaked ship. i'm not sure the best way to deal with this, cloaking should remain a viable option for intel gathering as well as for laying traps. but its a bit overpowered atm, and extremely difficult to counter.one idea i had was to bring back the system scanner pos module, but it is used as an anti cloaking device. you would need like 3 of them, and they take an hour or something to scan down a system. if the cloaker is afk, then it will find his location and report it. if the cloaker is moving around, it will either find his last known location or not find him at all. this would mean you have roughly 1 hour of afk time cloaked in a hostile system. and to make this a bit more fair, maybe it would only catch covert op cloaks, as the normals ones are stuck where they are anyway.or you could create an anti cloaking probe, one that will scan down a cloaked ship like a normal probe. this would give the cloaker time to move as he/she could see these on there scanner. mearly change locations. then it becomes a cat and mouse game but the cloaker can still do there job of possibly hot dropping or gathering intel. this could also make way for the black ops to use the covert cloak too, as you would have a viable way of killing them.what do you all think?"
"first"
"this is interesting. i wonder why nobody has brought this topic up before?"
"yes a one block monopoly is better than more of ffa brawl in wormholes right ?"
"not sure if adding moon mining to wh is the solution but i am in favor of just about any reasonable idea that will helpt the smaller producer.especially at times like this when the mega-alliances controlling moon production decide to price gouge."
"the tec situation is gnarbuks, this is a solution. also if the new 'mothership' is the hive ship that was discussed, its a perfect gateway."
"if they are going to make an alternate source, make it truly different. go to wh space, scan, blow up big hangar, loot moon mins or something along these lines. don't make it more of the same. nothing in wh space should be fixed in place like that."
"i see several possibilities here.1. you're 12.2. you have add.3. you're so incredibly impatient you can't wait less than 3 minutes for a game to update (which, by the way, since the changes apply to everyone...you must have the current version installed to play or else it wouldn't make sense).4. you're using dial-up and it takes hours for an update to download.whatever the case, my suggestion is to deal with it. it doesn't take much time or effort to update the client, stop making such a big deal out of it."
"scary thing is i can still tell what speed connection you're going to get from a dial up modems's buzzy modem sounds."
"pass a \"non-partisan\" resolution thanking and praising ccp for the align to bookmark feature!csm hr 1:this resolution is intended to express the unconditional appreciation of ccp today for introducing the align to bookmark feature in the recently deployed tyrannis 1.1 patch.please quote the section below to add your signature to the resolution:signed:vladimiru"
"your topic title is wholly foolish.the csm do not have any power on the level of congress.the csm is more like a commitee that can talk to congress.get it right or don't bother at all man."
"i prefer the term 'talk at'"
"the us congress is so broken in terms of filibuster mechanics, that if they can pass something, any assembly/forum can!edit: as if i am unaware of any of your above statements derp."
"your understanding of congress must be on the same level as glen beck.aka: you can't get much lower [/troll]assembly hall isn't meant for the expressing of congratulations, its meant for bringing up issues and ideas through the csm for ccp to listen to/implement/laugh at/troll"
"....got campaign donations?"
"problem:when you log in, all chat channels that you have active will always be maximized and put to their default positions. players has some windows usually minimized and some always opened. minimizing chat channels that should be minimized is an annoying task you must do when you enter the game and a dangerous one if you got disconnected during fleet fight or in the middle of mission/anomaly. loading those windows usually creates a bit of client side lag.solution:make client remember chat window state (minimized/maximized) just as it remembers its position.pros:better experience to everyone.cons:none that i can see."
"apparently, they nerfed the ui."
"oh, and if this right-click can't be implemented, could ccp at least allow use of the rest of your ui while the create bookmark window is open? it's annoying as hell to get locked out of everything just because you started the process of creating a bookmark."
"ccp, in this last patch you broke the wallet. so now only 0.1 is highlighted out of 0.10. this means when you go to type out 300mill, you have the extra zero there coming out to 3billion. this rages me much. please make it highlight everything again!it was much easier before where typing erased it all and replaced. i hate having to manually take out that zero."
"i support this - i dont like the new wallet. if its one of those pesky 'features' ccp keep adding then trying to move please can they hurry up with it.on the other hand, if its designed to increase game performace i dont mind living with it if that is the reasoning"
"yes. if this is how it's supposed to be it's awful!"
"you know why it seems obsolete? because it is."
"you are in an alliance. you can anchor up to 5 poses. try anchoring 6 next time?edit: support tick..."
"well then at least the 1 per corp limit is already gone. i thought i've seen the limits removed in some patch notes, i might have been wrong about the alliance one. well, whatever."
"no, the 1 per corp limit is for non alliance corps. your corp is in an alliance, so the limit of the alliance would override your corp limit"
"yes, makes sence"
"hmm... opening up ninja invasions? maybe it's a good thing, maybe not. i'm not either for or against, but just pointing it out."
"i relogin so many times a day... never saw other mmo that doesn't have \"go to character selection\" function."
"unfortunately this proposal runs headfirst into the hard brick wall of reality."
"dear ccp,i also suggested that i support that idea aswell :-)"
"very this."
"/signed"
"supercapitals in general are broken as hell and are really the only relevant thing in sov warfare, to the exclusion of all other players. this includes dread pilots.dreads are pretty well worthless at the mo because a sieged dreadnaught can't defend itself from other ships. nor should they, but sieging pretty much begets an inevitable hotdrop at this point. this is what i would do to rebalance things a bit, but then again i'm not too bright:- instead of siege mods having a 10-minute timer using 500 stront, give them a 1-minute timer using 50 stront or something. this still leaves them vulnerable to fast-moving ahacs and stuff but gives them a chance to boogie if supercaps show up.- give the nag some more damage, seriously.- introduce a t2 cruiser or battlecruiser hull with a specialized weapon that launches compact citadel torps. this would have its own skillbook with a relatively low multiplier so t2 cruiser pilots wouldn't have to train capital weapons for a niche ship. such a ship should be able to top ~1000 dps or more against supercapitals but be massively penalized by explosion radius and velocity, leaving it more or less useless against subcaps.this would be a relatively low-sp and low-cost counter to supercapitals, necessitating a strong support fleet for supercarriers. no more 20-nyx-and-1-onyx hotdrop fleets.this would probably introduce a whole slew of other balance problems but at least it would give the ~99.9% of eve that doesn't own a supercap a place in sov warfare again.dreads are for sieging towers and sieging towers only, and an across-the-board boost to hp in an already horrendously over-tanked game isn't the answer.though utility slots on dreads for smartbombs would be nice. perhaps a capital smartbomb module, with a range that will catch fighter-bombers but not hacs or bs?it's worth thinking about. actually, thinking about it is all that will happen, since :ccp:ps: yeah i know you said this wasn't about supercaps but since they're the main reason no one sees dreads anymore they need to be considered if dreads are to become relevant again."
"super carriers are cost prohibitive enough that they really haven't replaced dreads. poss are still shot at with dreads (with super caps on standby).people who complain about super carriers usually are the ones that swagger around low sec with small gangs shooting solo ships then cry \"blob\" when any group larger than them gets annoyed and hits their little camp. if it is done with a fleet of rifters, there are threads crying for nerfing rifters. if it is done with a carrier, there are threads crying that caps shouldn't be allowed in low sec. if it is done with a super carrier, there are super carrier nerf threads.that said, i won't complain about boosts to dreads. i don't think they are needed though."
"hi all please support if:1) your sick if bugs in game that don't get fixed. 2) your sick of failed updates/patches that cause more problems than they fix. 3) your sick of ccp persistantly being unable to deploy patches within thier own time frames resulting in constantly extended dt's during patch deployments. 4) you feel ccp doesn't spend enough time fixing the game it has and rushes to make new content (twice yearly new deployments/dust/ambulation etc) which cause further problems. 5) you think that ccp should impose tougher self (or externally imposed) v&v/quality management that forces ccp to resolve these stupid issues that are never fixed properly and often cause further problems- even if thus means at the expense of delays/cancelations of new content deployment.6) you want ccp to be held more to account when it constantly and persistantly let's it paying client base (you and me) down with little more than a 'whoops we failed again' post in the dev blogs."
"what i'm sick of is people who don't know the damned difference between you're and your. i will illustrate this difference now.if you're that unhappy with eve, stop paying for your account."
"i am annoyed about 1.2.4+ lack of evolution of game features once they are deployedbut what is your solution , what is v&v ? explainand yeah what de'v said.1) what does my puke have to do with anything ?"
"i fully support ccp soundwave using ccp funds to become the first human to receive implants into his brain that allow him to interface with the tranquility cluster, thus transforming him into ccp skynet and dooming us all to the whims of our ccp overlords for generations until a contingent of ginger-headed vagabonds and near-do-wells rise up in resistance by making ccp skynet realize his true humanity by making him look at images of cute kittens and bunnies. i, for one, welcome our ccp overlords. (please don't hurt me!)"
"you probably just figured out how to use your d-scan and realized that there are tons of towers that seem to be 'just floating around in space' and you have no idea what kind of investment the other players have gone through to get them there and you probably don't understand why they are offline. if you did know all these things, i don't think you would ask something like this.also, real life examples don't work in game balancing."
"inlighten me to the purpose of a offline tower,in ammar space,no moon goo, several empty moons in syst,incaped mods,empty slots in station for manuf,and multi corps in syst. if theres something im missing im sure you will let me know"
"yes we do understand the investment and why. but i totally agree with the op. perhaps you should have a special hacking module to do it, one that take like 30m-1h to complete. when the mod activates the pos owners get a message about someone trying to hack their pos structure.hacking a pos should only be possible if the pos is offline. if the corp with the pos comes there and drive the agressors out and refule it then the hacking attempt will fail. if the one hacking gets outside module range the hack will have to be redone.why should you be able to anchor a pos as a place holder and then just leave it there indefinitly?"
"you should also get concordokken'd if you use such a module on a pos and you've not wardecced it's corp."
"why should they? if you wish to keep your pos then keep it fueled and active. if you don't do that... well, then it should be free for the taking for any industrious individual out there."
"slave and crystal, hound and shard implants? names don't matter, anyways:atm it's silly to armor tank a ship when you can just buffer it because the amount of armor you receive/rep just isn't enough compared to the quick burst of shields in exchange for so little cap (200 cap for 2000 shields). i'd like to see a set like the crystal set (lg and hg) for increasing armor repair amount, and a set like the slave set increasing total shield.while i admit some armor repair tanking ships can really get the job done (hyperion, no dmg abaddon), it's nothing compared to a rokh with crystals in cap stability (no need for constant boosting) and in damage absorbed (overheating duration over 4 minutes).inb4 \"qq\" or \"you fail at fitting.\""
"errrrr... i think you're missing something.one [of the main] reason[s] people prefer to buffer tank in pvp is because you last longer against sudden bursts of dps. an active tank, while it can hypothetically tank better, will not last long/not be able to keep up with too much incoming dps.another thing you need to keep in mind is that armor and shield tanks were meant to be wholly different on a variety of levels.- armor buffers are not cap dependent, shield buffers are.- armor buffers can achieve more ehp, shield buffers can achieve better resistance levels.- armor reps use less cap, shield reps work at the beginning of the cycle and can be amplified (someone might want to fact check me on this).- armor tanks tend to have lower a signature radius, shield tanks have the ability to regenerate over time."
"i agree. i want implants that give a bonus to shield capacity, just like slave's do for armor"
"there's a huge issue with \"slave set for shield\" people often overlook. it's called drake. a drake with a set like this would easily reach 2000+ dps tanked with no cap used at all. probably much more if fit with faction hardeners. and drake isn't the most dangerous ship that can already get a ton of passive tank either.if shield set like this gave say, +50% shield and +50% recharge time then it might be ok. otherwise no."
"hmmm...after this latest lolpatch attempt perhaps bops accidently got fixed somehow by the random baboon mashing keys overlooked by csm and the awesome test crew aaaaaiiiite?"
"i think a lot of the people who drop after playing for a few months are the ones who refuse to let go of the \"i want to play by myself and win\" philosophy that is prevalent in most games. eve is a completely different playstyle, so it shouldn't come as a surprise that some people will not want to stick around once they figure this out."
"/signed"
"something worth highlighting again in the wake of the latest patch"
"well we did get align to bookmarks"
"while none of the items you bring up are new proposals its always good to revisit them (especially when most of these are issues that i hold dear and will always be part of my csm agenda).when you mention antialiasing i am assuming you mean a control for it ingame as it already works for all but some older model cards.cap ship textures definately need doubling, 1024x1024 textures just don't cut it.damage decals ->"
"yeah graphics srssly you guise!!1one why bother fixing the main issue first?!"
"yes to eye-candy, but not at the cost of more important things."
"i like this idea tbhnice one amber"
"generally i only ever use the map window for probing in which case i want as much space as possible.but i imagine id use it more for other things if i could get it smaller"
"yessssss."
"hard to believe a post by t'amber could ever be anything other than spam."
"even better...ban the damn spam cans by placing a limit on the number of letters that a can name can contain, 10 should be enough. the billboard idea is neat that is why i am supporting it. but the can spamming is getting out of hand. either make it a banable offense to advertise with cans ,it is not their purpose, or limit the name length. want to recruit new members use the damn forums."
"+1 for everything this guy just said."
"i have a better idea... just shoot his ass every time you see him, and don't quit shooting until we run him out of eve. cromoegeddon anyone?edit: guy sounds like a super carebear so he should be easy to pop."
"are all the southern coalition members as bitter and emo as you? the northern coalition just happened to be in the right spot when the change happened.don't like it? then why don't you come and do something about it? third times a charm? hahahahahahaha!"
"all they need to do is make the moons move around every couple months. not all at once, obviously, but slowly swapping around the universe. increase the number of resources by about 25% to compensate for the downtime inbetween loss of moons and rescans."
"were dyspro and promethium ever spread reasonably when they were 5 times more expensive then tech is now? sure there technically were those moons all over, but having 1 in region and 10 in region is quite a difference"
"hey, aren't you that guy that lost a dramiel to a badger?"
"i really wouldn't care if tech was so easy to choke off the supply of, if it were not the only mineral in eve you could do it so easily with. a single mineral being so easily controlled is a design flaw."
"bump"
"this thread is discriminatory against my allianceracist"
"already asked for anti-cloak probes, mainly to get rid of afk cloakers. longuer scanning time, poor scanning range etc... guess what they answered ? you want to remove the fun of afk players. for sure, morons.so i stop arguing with this topic."
"gb2wowkthxbai"
"i support the pos mod that would let you scan down afk cloakers. 1hour scan time. you should only get afk cloakers with that.i just can never support afk activitys."
"for the record i have never played wow. been in this game straight for 6 years non stop. with that said, afk cloakers are over powered, and in the real world (yes i know this is not the real world) people would of devised a way to find them when they sit in one spot cloaked."
"it's called fitting a propulsion module. you know, like a microwarpdrive or afterburner.changing ammo because you think you shouldn't have to get in range is udmb.not supported."
"hey, aren't you that guy who lost a dramiel to a badger and then biomassed his character?"
"/supported"
"i posted in a chromo thread"
"to be honest, that would not really change anything.. everytime i have dropped moms on something, it has been with a plated bs as the cyno ship... an abaddon, for example, would not be phased by those requirements and makes a perfect cyno ship with 4 plates, 2 eanms, dcu, and 3 trimarks.stop whining about the game, and enjoy it as it is. no one forces you to play. if you don't like it, please do us all a favor, and leave. calling people \"fail alliances\" because they kill you does nothing constructive. creating a proposal to change every game mechanic you don't like is not constructive, either. you say not to post \"bitterness\" in this thread, yet the op is full of it. deal with the game, and move on in life. if you really want to get something changed, then take initiative and cancel your subs until things get changed. or better yet, run for csm, and if people like your ideas, you will get voted through. its really not that hard to understand. if, for some reason you are still unclear about my position, i do not support this idea."
"as much as i don't like pl, i do give them props for being ballsy and all-around decent pilots.plus they just keep bringing out these sweet sweet delicious tearz"
"if people aren't just transporting caps around, they don't use kestrels. they use plated battleships that actually have some staying power and can be repped if they get hit. this is pretty much exclusively the case for capital hotdrops, let alone supercarriers.i'd also like to know how one practically unfit battlecruiser is a \"large commitment\"."
"actually no, people use cloaky arazus / w/e as well."
"whoa, this is awesome and much needed!"
"this is implemented in the tyrannis 1.1 patch. the first try crashed my client. but the 2nd time it worked."
"fixed for you."
"i didnt see any emotes! as amazing as everything looks, i just can't have podders come to my bar, and not be able to dance/sit/sleep/salute/bow/rudegesture/racial emote at eachother.at the least make 4 different versions of the above stated.ie:dance 1-4 (add racials too, like minmatardance)sit 1-4salute 1-4 (and racials, like caldari salute)etc.i was pretty amazed at the demo."
"...do not know if troll or not"
"if you get emotes, i want a gun that i can shoot your dumb ass with."
"i support this!guns for everyone. becouse i dont what a ***** bar i want ok shoot out!"
"the only possible good that could come from incarna would be no clone resurrection and lots of guns. i'm actually in favor of it not just being lethal for the character but for the account. or better yet if you want incarna delete your eve account and go find some other game and leave my internet space ships serious game alone."
"boy howdy i sure can't wait until we get icarna and all the roleplayers and second life furries just stream on in like the black plague swept over europe."
"my family died of the black plague of 1348, show some damn respect.but seriously, introduce dancing and i'll stab someone's eyes."
"i wonder if the dancing emote will make your ship dance too. lmao."
"this thread is no longer about emotes but about putting 3000 subwoofers in our spaceships while bumping to gangster rapboom boom boom boom boooooom boom boom booooooooooom"
"as an addendum, it would also be nice to see the summed volume of multiple objects selected together, for the very purpose of hauling feasibility as has been previously mentioned."
"there was a proposal i saw regarding alliance hangars today.that would be something that you could link to this concept i believe.part of setting up an alliance hangar is the option to setup the alliance shop (optional) as part of the setup.now if the alliance hangar were to have a large enough charge to stop them being totally spammed, we might be heading for an interesting/useful addition to managing corp logistics and supply."
"okay... i think its obvious to (nearly) everyone that this is not intentional..."
"it should be fixed, but i'd rather see ccp spend time on dust and incarna."
"about sov warfare et similai actually agree with elven lord on many things he said, but there is something wrong with this way of thinking. politics cannot be stopped by gameplay mechanics in a true sandbox, but gameplay should provide more options, and a fun game.and moreoverthis sounds really really bad to my ears. if the opponent is not there when i fire my guns, i must be able to fire on something else that belogs to him. active participation in this game should be encouraged, while saving the players from timezone problems. dreads becoming useless is not a good thing. why? when a ship becomes useless a piece of gameplay goes away, and eve becomes less diverse. the current sov mechanics are good because a system can really feed many pilots now. but they can be more complex. more deep. with more kind of objectives, placed in different systems, to hit at once.eve's spectacular metagame deserves something more complex as a game itself.in the end, territorial 0.0 warfare has very few strategy options. there's the assault option, where you need as much supercapitals as you can, or the guerrilla option, that consists in placing a cloaker in an enemy system. if you look at real life warfare, there is a lot more to break and steal.right now, what can i break in an enemy system?sov related stuff (for fleets and capitals/supercapitals)pos related stuff, outpost services (fleets and capitals)general ganking of ratters and miners (small gangs, cloakers or blackops gangs). and of course they can dock.so there are no actual targets for small gangs, they have no direct influence of any kind on the infrastructure and value of a system and sovereignty is only decided by supercapital battles. moreover, the advantage of the defender in dominion is just obvious. he sets all the reinforcement timers. he needs to win just one battle over 5. we all agree that the defender should have some advantage, but hell:they fight at home, with little logistic effort (compared to the attacker)they have the cynojammer-jb comboif they win a battle of 5, they save the system. it's definitaly a too long list of advantages, that makes the game so static and frustrates the attacker. please note that in eve the gameplay content is created by other players. the content created by an aggressive entity is much more than the content created by a peaceful one, of course. attacking should just be encouraged. and if you want to keep your systems, you must fight for it, nothing is free in eve.conclusionswhile battles in dominion can be fun (without lag), i think that the father of all eve gameplay (that is sovereignty warfare) deserves much more diversity and depth. thus i think ccp should iterate on it with priority over other things (like pve for example). small gang warfare is fun but it hasn't any real consequence. i'm not sayng that it should have the same consequences of fleet warfare, but hell, between all and nothing something exists.edit:i think that discussing about balancing is discussing about nothing if we cannot support quantitatively our statements. how much is the defender advantaged by the current system? how many dreads are needed to fight a supercarrier? how often is a certain tactic used?"
"back to page 1"
"seems to be the answer is obvious. keep the black ops underpowered in all soloist fields (damage, tank, etc.), but make sure its other roles are good enough to make it shine in its field and for there to be a purpose for using it that is concurrent with its hefty skill and isk costs. achieving that, it doesn't matter so much if not many players fly these ships. maybe their uses are more specialized, and not so many find themselves in the position to be using it."
"*bumpage*"
"yes pleasecorrect. the impact points are currently being calculated in the client (just choosing among the few possible points), and this wouldn't need to be changed even if the effects get more complex.sure.yes to epic debris fields. dunno about making the salvage type relate to the ship they're from. makes sense from a logical/rp point of view, but might screw up item availability balance.why not. but why stop at sentries? normal drone effects are also dated.god yes. it is unbelievable ccp still hasn't updated the most prominent art assets in the game.that would be awesome. ofc as soon as you introduce orbital mechanics, planets and moons would also have to be orbiting, as would ships if they don't want to plummet to the nearest celestial.ya.the reworked acs look awesome, btw.sure.so, proposal supported.ofc you haven't touched on the long standing art issues that everyone has been whining about for ages like:- seizure inducing sebo effects- lame \"new\" cyno effect- removal of mwd trails- missile explosions from '99which i'd personally like to see fixed much more than any of your items except aa support and updated background graphics."
"supported as long as more important things get fixed first."
"qft"
"this change would not ruin eve, but it is against my gaming ideology that when players have to pay a monthly sub, they also have to pay for extra perks. asking us to pay for a subscription and pay for ingame advantages on top of that is just over the top for me."
"wtf ccp!"
"dear good lord supported !!!"
"we can link anything and everything for the most part.but you never could link an alliance. at least as far as i know in the convenient sense.when your recruiting for new corporations its a little hard and pesky when you have to link a corp or char... click on the corp info and then click on the alliance info before you even get there.surely it would be just as easy to provide a way to link alliances i would think.so yeah... tldr - ui improvment - link alliances via right click menu.pros: makes life just a tad bit easier.cons: programming work for ccp.realistically i seriously doubt they will lift a damn finger but why not ask for it at least once."
"supported"
"+1 for a great idea"
"as long as you could move the now resizable map to another screen as well i will support this.i want my main screen to have my ship, overview, hud and my secondary screen to have the map. that would be real nice."
"its a nice change for those with more than 1 monitor :)"
"only acceptable if it is optional, as having the solar system map open is the only real option of reducing the resource usage of the client."
"good idea, untill google finds it..."
"can spam is so popular and prevalent because there is no ingame alternative the idea for ads has been suggested in many forms and ccp isn't interested, able to do it, or just too busy with other things to do it. i support additional methods to allow players/corporations to advertise their goods/corps/what have you."
"i don't go to the drone region. besides, you can't program a macro to shoot a specific person."
"even so, i'm sure you'd find a way to lose a dramiel to it."
"supported!"
"supported!"
"supported. why has he not been banned from the forums yet?"
"anything to make less mouse dragging in scanning."
"+1just been made aware of this great idea"
"stop whining about it and go take some tech moon then im sure you would have no problem with it. seriously its not our fault that you guys fail to take our space when you come up north. just bring more friends next time"
"as someone that flys a proteus every day.... your right the cpu-eg is 100% useless. supported"
"i think you mistook my meaning here. i am in no way opposed to giving the proteus the ability to field 5 heavies at a time. but that ability should be attached to the drone subsystem, not an electronics subsystem. the reason is that the gank offensive subsystem already allows 3 heavies + 6 neutrons with a 50% damage bonus on them. adding 2 more heavies on top of that just makes the thing stupidly overpowered compared to the other t3's. as such, that ability must be on the drone subsystem (which is currently weak tbh), it really shouldn't be attached to anything else."
"after further messing in eft i can see what you mean and +50 mbit/+50m3 drone gear will be too much. however +25mbit/+25m3 would give the proteus, in the correct configuration the ability to field 4x ogre ii's and apply 895 dps at close range with 113.5k ehp (121.6k ehp with exp hardener overloaded) (t2 fit). this would be the trade off for not having the long range warp scrambler. which is a very powerful ability to lose for just a little more dps. i also think the drone offensive subsystem should remain as it is. you should only be able to get 5 x heavy drones if you use all (potentially) 3 drone subsystems.looking at the other t3 in gank/buffer fits, they all seem to compare very well in dps, range, tank and speed. even the legion doesn't look that out of place, yes a tiny bit under par on the dps front but has selectable damage type and a really impressive buffer. i'll share with you all the fits i'm looking at if you want to see them."
"put simply: i'd very much like the council to continue to apply as much pressure to ccp devs as possible to make squashing bugs a higher priority than adding new features, at least for the next 12 months. i'm not against new features, i just find it appalling they are given precedence over current bugs and incomplete features that affect us right now.thank you for your time."
"what he said^^^"
"dominion patch borked lag pretty hard.tyrannis made it even worse, introduced a terrible ui for pi, and introduced gamebreaking bugs that they had to have an emergency patch for (in addition to coming out two weeks late and requiring, what, two days of downtime?)tyrannis 1.1 appears to not have even attempted to fix anything that was seriously wrong with the game (something about the back-end of the ui, ignoring the hideous front end entirely). result: tons of stuff broken that had to be re-patched a couple days later.ccp is seriously running off the rails. it's sort of inevitable when your management strategy is to put your only source of income on low-level life support so that your devs can work on shiny new games, but it's a pity nonetheless. at this point, it's probably too late to reverse course even if they wanted to."
"i love new features - i hate bugs even more. full support towards quality."
"ccp is anti bug, they have no tolerance for bugs, they do however have a warm squishy spot for design defects, oddly enough most if not all the problems we experience and report as bugs are design defects, interesting how that works out for ccp isn't it?"
"to recap. a cloaked ship ...- cant lock you- cant shot you- cant warp scramble youbut it is overpowered? did i miss anything?"
"in the sense that they can gather intel un impeaded. thye can move in and snag a ship and bring in backup before that ship can really do anything. there is alo of advantage to being cloaked and not so much a draw back"
"thats the role of covert ops and recons?1. dont rat solo.2. rat in pvp fit ships a) ecm drones help b) if ratting in a bs, heavy neuts are a really nice addition to your fit.3. have guards for your miners. (even one falcon can help)4. be aligned all the time if you are not prepared to fight.suddenly you are not an attractive target anymore.most cloaky ships come with a relatively light tank. exception here is t3 which can field a semi decent tank but are still weak to cap warfare or ecm drones."
"skill training, manufacturing, fleet boosting, freighting, researching and pos killing are all afk activities, you don't support any of those?"
"i like the idea of, say, an alternate ammo for the interdictor that reveals cloaked ships within a certain radius.it might be nice to have a way to find a cloaked scout summoning a gank gang in on your nullsec ratting raven, and you could swiftly get to the cerebral chess match of a sub vs destroyer duel (i always loved run silent, run deep as a kid).but i still think, on balance, that i cannot have that. i want a pony, a ferrari, and jenna haze, but the consequences of all that manure, insane insurance, and... hey, actually that last one might work...back on topic, the basic problem with what you are suggesting is that anything that actually works is going to have a monstrous effect on gatecamps meaning that almost all trade through the hi-lo-null chokes will have to go by cyno. which is bad, and imho a bigger loss than the other gameplay you might get out of your subhunting system.not supported. if you want to manage lines of sonobuoys, play harpoon. tl;dr - gatecamps will be too deadly if you can just ping for cloaked ships when a new toon hits local."
"your solution is ****, you currently have a imbalance in normal eve space and moons in roughly 2500 systems that are useless.you propose to go and give huge isk drops for shotting some arbitrary lol big hanger"
"supporting, because killing pos in wh is possible."
"i'll say i support this, cause it will do, but in a perfect new eden i'd rather have something else - something exploration-based, say, that produces a new signature for a technetium comet or something. i'd like to widen the material bottleneck to the point that other moongoo availabilities are also constraints on the cost of t2 stuff. i'm not terribly picky about how we get there."
"yes, that is the point."
"may i suggest, you think about those messages (1-4) again.it has nothing to do with my \"dialup\" speed (6mbit/sec) nor with my age. have a look at update prcedures as they are now for internet explorer, firefox and have a look how chrome does it. then take a step back from technology and think about the \"user experience\" (=excellence !?). then you will see and understand my point. btw it is not (definetly not) urgent or important. it<U+FFFD>s only my speak what i would like to see in some futute and therefore, what i expect as a user and customer."
"i can see the point in a background downloader for client changes, but to actually install the update, most need you to stop what you're doing or lose data."
"you are the kind of user that makes programmers and developers make things automated without user consent or choice you don't want to do anything or can't and thus they try to cater to your laziness by forcing everyone to deal with however they decide an update/patch etc should be dealt with. the result is they don't know one thing about how the rest of us run our computers, where our dl 'folder' is, where we installed the client, how we integrate it into our programs, etc making us have to deal with all the assumptions they've made. now you'd think this wouldn't be a problem as they are making everything 'automated' they should/had to think about the many variables involved the problem is they don't, they too are lazy and over the years i've seen them fail to make those considerations over and over, they just assume that everything is the same across the board, everyone uses c:\windows everyone installs their games in \my documents etc.i hate having things work in the background unless i've commanded it to do so, i'm fine with everything working for you on autopilot but leave me the choices you can't be bothered with without having to jump through a dozen hoops to snatch them back from a stupid pos program written by a lazy sob who can't think beyond his own cubicle."
"this is impossible."
"i prefer the term ill-advised, but i'm willing to go with impossible too - whatever it takes to make sure this never ever happens."
"if you have a 6mb/s line most updates should be done in a couple of minutes tops, i don't see how thats overly painful."
"i read it somewhere but i cant remember where. i thought it was coming in this winter expansion: the re-creation of your characters portrait (so its 3d or something).i was wondering if we were allowed to change race as well?back then you had to pick race and bloodline for your attributes, not for your liking to a particular background story. my char is cald (i think) but exclusively flies minmatar; and i act for it in game (rp). if i'd were allowed to change my race; i could walk the talk."
"welcome to eve where choices have consequences.if you were really more interested in the story than in min/maxing your character, you wouldn't be worried about it now."
"support"
"grats to the csm for pushing for this change, which benefits nearly all players. as it wasn't mentioned in the original patch notes, the old 'that's not a bug, it's an undocumented feature' joke can finally be laid to rest."
"it would be very convenient if, in planet mode, there was a button to \"repeat last cycle\".that way, if you do not need to tweak your set-up, one click would do it."
"i'll turn my donations over to you when you stop invading providence!"
"1.0"
"damn, that be nice. dream +1"
"i'm not going to support the ideal. i do think its a nice ideal. but it's better on steam then eve do to the number of differnt games and game setings there.i am shooting it down becouse we need the resourses for other things like i dont know lag mybe. there already has to be a huge database of iteams too.i just feel there are better things to spend eve resourses on then this. lets keep it pc side for now. it is a good ideal i'm just thinking not right now or even in the next 2-3 years."
"from what i have seen in my time roaming the forums most players have a strong desire for several things. 1) an updated ui system. not just an \"upgrade\" to the current ui, but a complete overhaul.2) an updated pos system. i personally have many grievances with the current system, but as many posts are titled, it's just \"flogging the dead horse.\"3) fix fleet lag. not being from a technical background i can only assume this has to do with server loads and how crowded certain nodes are (from what i have read).4) an updated combat system. many people complain of the current combat system being \"point and click\" and not having much to do with meta-game skill. in essence people are asking, and sometimes demanding, that ccp fix/improve what they have already built before adding more features and increasing the complexity of the code, thereby making improvements to current features/code more difficult. i will not make any suggestions in this post about supposed improvements to the afore mentioned features, but will instead propose a more general solution. ccp, please dedicate one or two upcoming patches to improving much requested features. everybody enjoys new toys to play with, but if they break with the next update, or are broken to begin with, nobody has fun. if you agree please give this the thumbs up, if not thumbs down.any dev/gm comments are welcome.edit: i can only hope that this will be \"stickyed\" as it deals with improvements as a whole and not any one issue"
"while your intent seems very constructive, there are too many simultaneous points raised, and some of them are rather general. \"overhaul the ui\" is an example of too general. \"meta-game skill\", in point 4, could refer to twitch-gaming, desire for a joystick, or something more strategic-- again, too general, in my opinion.i realise that your proposal then essentially becomes a lump \"devote patches to fixing existing stuff\", but inclusion of the 4 points suggests that they would be part of the priority, so they should include specific solutions sought. that, in turn, probably means simply linking to other threads.not supported in the form submitted."
"in the interest of furthering the goals of user testing. i propose that ccp open a public bug tracker for eve online, more specifically the test server/client: singularity."
"supported.have accountability in the form of public bug tracking so that ccp can't pretend they didn't know about the bugs, we can see what progress and how long they've taken in working on the problem instead of 'please submit a bug report' as a response along with 'we are aware of the problem' and 'we are working on those issues' as platitudes. perhaps public scrutiny on the many bugs encountered by players might encourage more effort on ccp's part in allocating resources to them. on the issue of exploits ccp could choose to redact pertinent information or make those reports hidden/private and show so as the bug#'s status for a period of no longer than 6-12months when they become fully public and any failure on ccp's part to act is made blatantly obvious to all."
"being a solo player can be frustrating in pvp when you are normally up against a vastly larger squad that between them can totally overwhelm your defenses. it would be nice to have locked systems where once a target is engaged no other player can join in. basically an arena systems where fleets are not allowed to operate and players can get all the one on one pvp they want. having a few low sec systems in every faction space like this should be no problem and would not interfere with the regular low sec 0.0 fleet action."
"welcome to the sandbox. call chunky milk he likes 1v1."
"simply put an anchored structure which, when online, allows for people to either clone jump or pod themselves to a pos. said structure should also allow pilots to upgrade their clones. aside from allowing for more timely defense of a pos under siege it would also allow for groups who live primarily in wormhole space an alternate way to get back to their system. with the clone upgrade option it would also be of some use to pilots who are unable to dock and have surpassed their clone limit.suggested fitting:cpu - 1000powergrid - 10,000"
"clone jumping into wh space is not supported. (you can test it with a rorqual if you dont believe me)"
"neither was bridging into a cyno jammed system before the advent of covert cynos. just because something is not currently possible does not necessarily mean that it never will be."
"wh space is supposed to be disconnected from k space. it is supposed to be a logistic nightmare that you have to be careful with. in short, no cloning to wh space.on the other hand i do agree with the structure being used in k-space. it could be quite useful in some circumstances as you mentioned."
"so it's a complete station medical bay, not just clone vat. and you can select it as your cloning station as if it were a corp office?you could covert cyno a br in and drop the pos, then medical jump into a cyno jammed system. and you can't get podded out of that system, or wormhole. the wh defenders likewise wouldn't be removed when podded, with their own cloning module active.don't really like it at first glance, sounds more like extremely powerful tactical changes, than a mere convenience. with a stack of ships in the pos, you can bring pilots in from all over eve, with combat ready ships. bypassing gate camps, jump range limitations, and cyno jammed systems. also, not being able to pod hostiles out of your station system would suck. it could also result in more pos spam as residents cover every moon to stop this happening. it really needs to be more thought out with all possible eventualities considered."
"if anything jump clones should nerfed , along with instant transportation tools.this is the reason big blobs are a norm."
"supported"
"no one uses those missile pods on the rifter anyway, i propose refitting!"
"at least you know who to blow up now. you walk into the bar and know that anyone in here will be easy pray once (if) they ever undock. i like the gun idea, you should also lift the star police system from gta as well. could we hijack other peoples spaceships at gun point... that would be epic. (as long as you have the skills to fly it) lol a carebear in his pimped out cnr is about to go run some missions after dancing it up at the bar. you have tracked him to his hanger and put the gun to the back of his head and ask for the keys... lol it would be funny as hell to hear about that in local... am i right"
"yes, this is very annoying."
"+ supportcommon ccp. be so great for functionality. ui so dated ...."
"keep on hoping... chances for such are about as high as ccp actually making a useful tweak to nullsec sov mechanics."
"korvin +1"
"(emphasis mine)i've always wondered about this... why should we continue to encourage single-continent alliances?"
"i say buff blaster dps by like 20% and tracking by like 5-10%.ps:bump"
"with the recent wave of account hackings and ccp's reminder again to \"protect your accounts\" i would like to reboot an inactive proposal."
"as a former wow player, i definitely support such a system. its not unduly complicated or hindering for users, and provides a level of security that few other features can match."
"i'd definatly say this is a good idea. mainly because its optional, people will have the option to better protect their accounts but aren't forced to buy anything either. can't go wrong with choice :p"
"great idea to have additional layer of security, and it wont cost much."
"supported!!!!"
"i support this. would be great to have iphone/android apps for this as well."
"i like the proposal. will investigate more and most likely raise it for the next meeting."
"great idea and as you said it's simple to use."
"definitely support better security options such as this."
"i threw this post up back in february or sometime thereabouts, continue to support."
"i would totally put down 300 million isk to have a more secure account."
"supported !"
"yo"
"following best industry practice in account security matters should not require users to request. the unique metagaming that ccp's games are marketed on should result in ccp leading the industry in protection of its players."
"i support this."
"there's also this thing i recently discovered. it's called your brain. i laugh at these people who cry about being victims of identity theft and account hacking. very few accounts are actually 'hacked'. instead, the account info is phished because someone isn't using their brain.i personally run my entire pc with no antivirus, no firewall, and i run with dmz on. never once have i gotten any form of spyware, any virus, and only once has my eve account been compromised. and that was a lucky guess due to someones computer storing passwords in firefox.so, in short; to better protect your account, use your ****ing head when going to websites. seriously, why the **** do you need to enter your account information anywhere but eveonline.com, eveonline gate, or the actual eve client?"
"this may work for some, and has so far worked for me as well, but i am not naive enough to believe that i am better than every security threat out there. this is why i employ every security precaution at my disposal when dealing with things like my bank, utility companies, ext... i would like to have more options for security for eve as i have invested a significant amount of my time there. however, not all users of eve are as capable as you / or i , nor do i think we wish to limit the possible subscriber base to pc security enthusiasts. also, there's no need for the rude language in the assembly hall"
"i just find it amusing when people think they should rely upon someone else for account protection. yes, security protections are useful; however the greatest security protection one can employ is yourself."
"give me rsa protection - n-o-w"
"i love how saithe is soapboxing about \"using your brain\" when he himself brainlessly compromised one of his own accounts. everyone always believes they're too smart to get phished, hacked or compromised. it never fails. but most of the time, they aren't.i support this product and/or service, because more protection can't hurt and might help."
"yes it would be great if there was more protection but not if it is going to cost players even more $$$ to play.the very best protection is that which the end user deploys themselves & when 98% of hacks are actually more along the lines of the person getting the p/w etc from the accounts owner due to being a friend, relative, or because they buy isk or frequent sites that most players wouldn't bother with <hacking sites, pirate software sites the list goes on> why should everyone else have to pay for that?extra security is always a good thing when it comes to computer games, but no matter how much security a game has nothing will stop it from happening if people continue to see their account details as something that isn't really that important, or they continue to frequent phishing sites, pirate software sites etc etc."
"as long as it's optional, yes indeedy. i love the little key fob things. i just hope i don't confuse it with the one i have for work."
"how many times do i have to say it? even using courier u can only do one tier 3 bs....that itns very helpful...i migth as well fly it myself"
"let ccp concentrate on far more important issues, the learning skills have been in play since the start. leave it alone."
"as someone who can't really justify paying monthly for the game anymore due to real world financial issues, i pay for my play time with plex.if remaps use plex that will rocket the price of plex probably pushing me and others like me out of the game.and tbh this game is better with me in it, innit?!?"
"do not do this"
"wtf ??"
"there is a post for those who wish to support this feature.you can do so here:"
"no micropayments :("
"please add your support if you want the phone/mobile internet app 'capsuleer' to continue - with the ccp support/patronage they require. i dont know what has been said between ccp and the 'capsuleer' developers and frankly i don't care (it's not my buisness- litterally). but please don't let it die. 'capsuleer' is an excellent utility with loads of potential for use with eve and other ccp developments like eve gate etc. whatever has come between both companies please resolve this and give the app the time and effort it deserves. please mail your alliances/corps/friends that use 'capsuleer' to let them know it's going offline and that there is a petition. as an aside, if the developers of 'capsuleer' are reading this: 1) thanks so much for a great app/utility- i am truely sorry it's going in a couple of weeks. 2) i for one would be happy to pay to use this app as it is at a rate of <U+FFFD>1 per month or even a flat rate for q 1 off download. please don't let your product die."
"supported - it took 1 year 10 month till i have found a good mobile eve app/site. as eve-commander hasnt provided an app as promised for mobile it would be a great loss.if ccp doesnt provide such an app on its own let capsuleer continue."
"the problem isn't with ccp not being supportive, the capsuleer blog was clear on this point. it's simply that the developers would like to be paid for their time. either a: ccp hire them to produce mobile app features for eve profesionally as part of ccp's offering (which they have been hoping on for a couple years)or b: ccp come to an agreement with them allowing them the opportunity to further monetize capsuleer, this would likely mean you having to pay for it on app store and/or a subscription fee as well. the ultimate cause of capsuleer going down is that the developers do not feel it in their best personal interest to continue pouring so much time into something without any compensation. (assuming they don't consider the love of the community compensation)and that's perfectly understandable, lately eve has had to take a back seat to many issues irl for me as well."
"i would like to reiterate: i don't care, nor is it the point of this petition to ascertain who's fault it it was that 'capsuleer' is going down or to speculate either. the point of this pertition is to get ccp to give the required support to an excellent app and to help with the licence that they require for 'capsuleer'. i would also reiterate that i wouldn't mind paying for the app if that's what's required."
"no-brainer...really"
"easy support. just another annoying quirk that needs to be squashed."
"1.0"
"actually you can link alliance's into windows. goto people and places, goto search engine, type in the alliance you are looking for, a window should pop up for the alliance you are looking for, drag and drop into a window, alliance is linked."
"5 steps as opposed to 2 for everything else? yeah i don't see a problem with that.edit: not to mention next time i will open people and places to quickly add a bookmark, i will instead die in a fire when trying to find the right tab for adding bookmarks. (yes, i'm bad at eve, and the horrible ui is making me even worse)supported."
"1.0"
"and i can link a corporation, a module, a ship, a character, a solar system by typing in the name in chat and right clicking it.which one of these things is not like the others, hmm?"
"i figured that since we have a proposal against this - [proposal] no trading plex's for neural remapping - it is only fair to have a counter proposal. imho, i think this thing has gotten blown all out of proportion and that the matter is not that big of a deal but since those who oppose it, for whatever reason, have a place to show their support against it, those who favor the idea should have their say too. that said, i don't expect that my proposal will get the response that t'amber's has gotten simply because my name is not as recognizable as hers.update:it appears as though the two proposals (against and for) are a moot point for the moment and we will just have to wait to see how it actually does affect the game. eurogamer's robert purchese posted an interview with ccp's eve creative director, torfi frans olafsson. on page 3 of the interview is a question and answer pertaining to this in which olafsson states that this feature will be in the incursions expansion. (due to the character limit - read the quote in t'amber's proposal, in the interview, or in my comment #18 below.)proposal:allow the trading of plex for extra neural remapsif needed, impose a limit on uses per character or per account.pros:this feature would allow players to correct mistakes made during the planning of a character.this feature would allow players to change the direction of a character's training if he or she has decided to take a different approach to playing eve.pertaining to the first two items listed above, this feature would serve to minimalize the lost time and effort of mistakes in planning and of changing the style of play.everyone, regardless of their real-life monetary circumstances, has access to the feature since plex can easily be purchased in-game with isk.eve players who have limited time to actually play can optimize their training thus allowing them to reach certain goals a little faster and consequently allow them to enjoy a richer eve experience in their limited time.this feature would give the already existing plex feature a larger role and a broader user demand which in turn would increase sales of gtcs thus making more money available to ccp for the continued development of eve.since characters can already be bought and sold for isk legally and gtcs can be changed into plex and sold for isk legally, both of which allow players and their characters to bypass standard game mechanics to achieve monetary and training advances quickly, this feature would allow the same but to a lesser degree.cons:a few players will make more isk by spending real money to purchase gtcs for resale as plex, just as they do currently.a few players will actually buy gtcs with real money, convert the gtcs to plex and use the plex to buy a neural remap while most players will not due to monetary restraints or due to principle (not wanting to make ccp rich).since neural remapping is an advantage to a player, those who chose to use it will gain a slight advantage over those who chose not to use it even though the plex is readily available to one and all with no real money outlay.ccp will be able to sell more plex. (yes this is listed as both a pro and a con since some see this as a bad thing while others view it as a benefit.)link:my link is up top leading to the 'no' proposal.other:if you support this thread, don't forget to put a check in the 'check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on' checkbox!edit: added the 'limited use' item of the proposal.edit: added update"
"hmmm. had the box checked when i posted but it didn't register, soooo....supported."
"wish i could give you a thumbs down.not supported."
"fixed that for you.monetising ingame rewards is a bad idea. plex for subscription time is not the same thing as plex for <insert game mechanic here>. if the problem is that neural remaps are too far apart then fix that problem, don't add a micro-transaction to work around a bad design."
"i do hope the majority of players support proposals for their content, and not depending on who posted them.though i don't support this proposal, i can only urge the people who want this feature added to reply here, as this would shed some light on where the majority is."
"not supported, what's after cash for remaps? cash for sp."
"\"oh no i really wish i hadn't made the mistake of jumping my pve fit navy raven into lowsec. here's three plexes ccp, make that not happen plox.\"i hate micro transaction games. i pay to play, i don't pay so that i can be outdone by other people who can afford to pay more."
"supported."
"sounds good to me"
"supported, an excellent idea."
"truely good!"
"not supported as it's already in game."
"the function is there, but it isn't really the same thing and adding color coding to the targets in addition to the icons can only be a good thing. currently the hud is largely just bland grey, the most uninspiring and boring option they could have used, with minimal color utilisation. looking for small icons in such a uniform look forces you to read it more closely than necessary compared to a colored version.the best analogue that comes to my mind is the reading of a spreadsheet. a simple thing like adding alternating colors to the background of the rows isn't really a necessary function and doesn't add any new information. it just makes reading the correct rows in the spreadsheet faster and more convenient."
"sounds good to me."
"helping a corpmate rid the forum of evil (or idiocy)"
"jumping on the bandwagon!"
"supported and please also apply ideas from this thread:"
"supported"
"i don't think ive ever fought you before. i take it you are part of the nc? you better get more of your people to come in here and defend your moons, cause you probably wont keep them if you don't post on the forums implying that the people who are commenting about game balance issues are whining."
"ok first of all. i know eve is a pvp game. but it's suposed to be a secure area where you can play \"safety\".but i can see a big number of \"suicide acts\" in empire. i can post a killboard link where you can see 5 suicides of the same pilot in less than two weeks. ok concord will come and revenge you. but looses of unaware pilots can be of billions. (and a tremendous frustation) and thanks to insurance the aggressor only loose a few millions. what makes suicides a very lucrative act. there are many ease ways to restore your sec status. in null sec you restore it really quicky. so i just suggest:a) increase sec status loose for destroing a ship and poddingb) decrease concord response timec) revoque the insure for aggressors (cause it's an illegal activity)d) remove sec status gain in null sec (cause it's not empire control zone)"
"or you can not transport billions in an untanked hauler. use courier contracts to disguise the contents of your hold. don't use autopilot. you could write a book of stupid things people do that allow suicide ganks."
"i'm for not paying out insurances to suicide gankers (or ships killed by concord to make it easy), just makes more sense in my book :pbut other than that, basicaly what the guy above me said, don't do stupid **** and the chance to get suicide ganked is a lot smaller. even if they'd take out insurance payments suicide ganking is still very lucrative because some people are just flying overkill setups, or transport tons of isk in weak ships (and this often afk). so yeah... you can help yourself to be safe :p"
"some of us dont care about the isk loss and do it for the lols and hate mails."
"there is no such \"secure\" zone in eve.high-sec is safer that low-sec. low-sec is safer than null-sec. null-sec is a turkey shoot. the key word in all this is \"safer,\" not \"safe\" as you can be shot and killed anywhere.if you do not wish to be a target of a \"suicide gank\" then you must play the odds in your favor; make your ship unattractive to gank (i.e. have crap cargo (i.e. ore/minerals), too big a tank/too few valuable goods), have a scout that looks for such gank camps a few jumps ahead, have an escort that is willing to be \"proactive\" in your defense, etc, etc.edit: eve search is your friend! this is what happened to the last thread that was along the same lines."
"i dunno. i like some of the things ccp tries to do, as their goals are admirable (redesigning sovereignty, introducing planetary interaction, et al). however, their methodologies are abhorrent, to the point where most people either ignore or macro the new content.ccp doesn't release bug-fix patches often, and the last one they did release got zero positive responses, even though it fixed the top 100 complained-about bugs. therefore, i'd much rather this patch re-revise the old content to make it more streamlined rather than work on something as small as bugs. fw, pi, sov, poses - the list could go on forever.even if the new patch has little or no new material, a revision of the older materials would drastically improve eve online. i support your proposal, but request that they aim higher than mere bugs to the really broken parts of this game."
"dust is more important becuase we will be able to land on planets and ... oh wait we wont."
"i can't ever see it happening but very, very supported"
"hell yes. and every time they do add new features, they are usually a bit rough, and they leave them that way and never look back."
"supported, as my ui hasn't worked right since the patch"
"someone made a thread about \" if the us congress can pass resolutions then this assembly hall can!\"then someone said the csm doesnt have the power that congress has.so i was thinking what if the csm could like order some concord special forces to anywhere in the eve universe except wh space. they would go there and police it for a while. i think the csm should get 2 squads that can occupy a region. the first squad will be able to be assigned by the chair person any time he wants kinda like how the president can order the marines to invade anything he wants for 90 days. this squad could only be assigned for 3 days then would have to rest for 3 days before he/she can redeploy them.the second squad can be assigned by any csm but must be voted on, if it gets the majority of votes then they get deployed. they will be deployed for 7 days and have to rest for 4 days. they are alot larger in number but alot weaker than squad 1 so they are like the army."
"rawr?"
"what is the point? what security 'laws' will they follow? what actions can they do?how can you not see that pretty much any power given to this 'army/squad' beyond normal concord rules breaks the game by putting 'godly' power in players hands?not supported."
"back during apocrypha i remember hearing rumors being passed around about sov changes, that were expedited in dominon and that pos's wont be needed for sov anymore. at the time i dismissed this as hype, as i could not see ccp removing such a large mechanic from the game as doing so would have drastic effects on the market,... i remember thinking that if they did such a thing that they would need to introduce some other method by which ice fuels would be consumed. today yes that \"hype\" turned out to be fact rather than fiction, and with still no new thing introduced to gobble up all those ice fuels being pumped into the market, just as i expected the ice market is dangerously close to collapse. oh i don't expect it to crash in the next day or even month, but mark my words , its coming and fast. when it was introduced in dominion i did the calculating to try to figure out when i could expect this to happen, now as then there is still far too many variables to give a definite answer to that, however, i have in all my calculations seen a few set things we can look forward and expect to be seeing with no new use for ice fuels. 1> the ice market will gradually decay, ice production will continue to far over produce to demands, and as such the market prices on ice will go into an out of control downward spiral ending in a crash of the ice market. currently the value of ice is a mere 57.7% of what it was during apocrypha. and is still dropping, (step 1 on the road to market crash, check). 2> once ice does finally crash and is not worth mining. all these ice miners are going to look for greener pastures, being asteroids and standard mins, this influx of miners and thus minerals to the market will drive mins prices down, and this stage is already happening as i have been watching the mins prices and they are dropping. but their current drop will be nothing compared to the crash when all the ice miners begin pumping minerals into the system, minerals will crash out shortly after ice. 3> as those markets are crashing you can expect these miners to look for other ways to \"augment their mining incomes that are at that point ruined, by doing pi mining, trading, ect. and these will be done in a mass lemming stampede style moves to new markets and will bring collapse in their wake, soon an avalanche of collapse one market after the next will be in full rampage style. my proposal is this, the csm get on ccp in a large way about re-stabilizing the market and get some form of ice fuel usage back into the game to replace those pos's fuel requirements they arbitrarily and foolishly removed because the village idiot said it would be a good idea to take your cash cow behind the barn and shoot it. there are far faster and easier methods by witch mining, industry, and most other market related functions can be removed from eve online, incase that is their goal. just remove salvage, ice, mins, moon mats, and gas clouds and indy as a whole. then the game can be a pvp/mission running game only."
"that's some create use of the enter key."
"oh i see what you did there..."
"make it so ships have crews and you have to feed them. also food can be grown thru pi. hull dmg will kill your crew but you can raid planets to refill your crew. if you dont feed your crew they will eat you and steal your ship."
"this is a good idea. maybe the different planet types could have different types of people that gave different bonuses to you ship!"
"what is this, black & white?the sims?pirate crew daycare 101?"
"what about when youre off line for 3-4 days in a row or something comes up and you can't log on for a few days/weeks? i fly around the country for work and am often gone all week. would i lose my ship every time im out of town? would i have to be in my pod by its self in station so my crew would not eat me? in rl i know the captain of any naval ship doesnt have to manage the food supply of the ship and make sure the crew gets fed. thats delegated down the hill to someone less important. similar to how we don't get to really fly (joystick) our ships, just point and go i want to fly that way to the helms men and he does the joystick part for me.i can see it now, i'm in the middle of a huge fleet flight, i'm selecting targets, activating my guns/webs/scrams and the voice for \"skill training complete\" pipes up saying something like \"warning the crew is on strike due to lack of food. feed your crew if you expect them to continue to work for you.\" my guns stop firing, my tank turns off... and we all die. im down to make the game more realistic, but i don't think your idea would add to the game much other then another frustrating game mechanic. you have to also remember that ccp would only half implement your idea anyway. maybe they would leave out the button that allows you to feed your crew in a rush to get the new content out the door. in the rushed patch to fix the lack of the button they mess up and make food take up 5ms per unit and make it so its 1 unit of food per crew member. what would you do then?now i do like the idea of having a crew of people you could select from different planets and have them bring there own skills with them to add to your ship. i like it but i have a feeling no one wants to code that into the game... at allever. how many worlds are in eve? how many people would crew your ship? how would to balance each different race/planet with each other? all things they would have to think about and code for. i would like to see it, but have a feeling it would take more code to implement then incarna."
"all ships would have special cargo holds just for food. and if your offline food could be consumed slower.also you should feed your crew before the battle. also maybe the lower your sec status the less food your crew eats since they are like pirates but they also dont perform as good as a crew thats captain has a good sec status."
"you could take it a step further and give the ship itself some kind of experience mechanic.. ie the more combat the ship and crew sees (and you manage to keep it alive), the more effectively it does certain things.food could probably just be represented by a \"supplies\" function that gets consumed at a steady rate when not docked at a station."
"this is a bad idea. i've had a broadsword now for something like a year and a half. it's been in a number of large battles, bubbled a ton of supercaps, including bubbling 2 titans doomsdaying the grid at the same time. and it still lives. if this \"experience\" thing was in effect, it'd be pretty much invincible by now. and i'm sure people have ships far older than that."
"how about adding a .05% chance someone in your crew will kill all of you by screwing with the oxygen because you stole him off of a planet?"
"sid meyers pirates?"
"i'm not supporting this as much as i like the idea of being able to space one of my more useless crewmen not only as an example to the rest but also for the pure fun of it."
"because its an automatic assumption the bonuses would be huge...right"
"i like the experience thing so maybe it could like cap at 10% bonus max but that would take forever to get. also with incarna you can walk in your spaceship and see the crew working and maybe beat them if they are bad or give them rewards if they are good. it would kinda be like an episode of battlestar galatica mixed with the campain thing from sc2 where you see all the parts of the hyperion but set in an eve background of course. i can understand some people may not like this idea but thats just because its way to awesome for them to comprehend."
"there's only one ship in the game that has a chance of tackling you when it uncloaks if you're aligned (like you should be), and that's a stealth bomber.that said, a stealth bomber's life expectancy against pretty much any ship in the game at tackling ranges is from when it uncloaks and roughly until when you lock it. do you really think it needs further nerfing? cause it doesn't seem that way to me."
"i made a post about this too, perhaps i should have searched for the topic first, so instead of linking it i will post what i wrote as no doubt my thread will get locked.anti-cloaking shockwave (a-cs)*the a-cs device will emit a massive shockwave that knocks all ships out of cloak within a single system and prevents cloaking for a limited duration.*this device is an i-hub upgrade and must be fitted to a pos, some fuel will be required to activate the device. (only 1 device can be installed per system.)*when the shockwave fires, all ships, (including friendlies) will be unable to cloak for a limited duration.this could not only have some strategic benefits in large fleet battles when trying to defend your home system for example, but it will hinder those who try to cloak up 24 hours a day with their alts. (the reason i came up with the idea in the first place.)how it might work:you will not be able to activate the a-cs device instantaneously. if a ship fitted with a cloaking device jumped into your system and the a-cs device was immediately activated, it would be too easy for the defenders and the enemy would find themselves unable to cloak and most likely die. therefore, on activating this device you will have to wait the coming effects duration. so if the duration of this device is 15 minutes, you will have to wait 15 minutes before the shockwave fires. this stops the exploiting of this device and ensures you will have to think carefully about activating it, you will be unable to cloak aswell. also, because the device takes such a long time to fire, it makes sense that it would have a long cooldown too. in other words, you won't be able to fire it again straight away. people should be allowed to cloak in your system, what is the point of cloaking devices otherwise. this device just adds more strategy to the game, like halting stealth bomber groups for a short period of time and even preventing that titan from cloaking if it got away somehow.more importantly! it hinders those really annoying people with far too many alts that cloak up in your system 24 hours a day whilst playing on another one of their characters somewhere else (periodically checking for any signs of activity with their cloaked up alt) and those people that go to sleep at night and afk to stop you from conducting your business. how i'd love to see these selfish ******** go afk one day and die because of it, they'll have to be a little more careful when harrassing you from then on."
"i would agree with this if you were in a drake, raven and even a sniper fitted ship whilst killing belt rats, but what if your not? blaster boats can't do this, it's impractical and let's not forget that sometimes the rats can scramble you. if you were being watched, that's most likely you dead. i don't mind if someone jumps in and takes me down by chance because of the annoying rat that scrambled me, that's all good, yes i'll be gutted but i'll still be cool with it.so your supposed to wait for other people to rat with you and if there is someone there to help, your takings are gimped? don't be silly, besides there are other factors to take into consideration here, but let's not list them.excuse me? what if your doing an anomaly? this is impractical, not everyone has the isk to buy t3 ships because of the afk cloakers that stay their griefing periodically. some anomalies can be difficult and so again your forced to gimp yourself and do that crap anomaly instead because of the selfish players who have many accounts. they can cloak up in your system and rat somewhere else with another character if they wanted too.best idea you've had, excellent work!another simple and effective idea, but it is an if.again this isn't always possible, mining barges are really slow too and aligning out is hardly practical anyway and why should you have to wait for other people all the time?see my reply to nuts nougat above.cloaking should be allowed as i've already mentioned, but not the in the way selfish people with multiple accounts use the mechanic and to further add to this. these people who harrass in this manner are guaranteed to not be present at their computer the whole time and even when they are present they won't be staring at the screen indefinately, searching for people the whole time they are. they'll be searching the internet, using a different character, or watching a film. so i'll end this by saying that not everyone has an alt and we all know how much of a difference just 1 alt can make. don't be selfish, show some respect to other people that pay to play this game, some of which that can barely afford it."
"im sorry to counter your point but no one has ever countered my real world cloaking ship."
"acually the arazu is designed to do just that.sit cloak n wait then get in range of a suitable target drop cloak warp scram and light cyno to bring in his supercap fleet to kill a single target."
"as you said yourself. it has to drop cloak.that means you can neut it, jam it (hello my ec-300s).and if you are aligned the chance of getting caught by it is relatively low.competent people will still manage to kill you, especially when it is a super carrier/titan hotdrop on your carrier/jf, but well nothing gives you 100% safety except for not logging in."
"i lol'd"
"please don't try to troll, if your not going to be constructive, don't post."
"having two pos modules to triangulate an afk coakers position after a 1-2 hour period would be a decent idea. this would only hurt afk cloakers, as anybody warping around would break the lock. (however, normal ship movement should not break the signal lock, as then people would just light their engines to keep moving)"
"lets just sprinkle some pixie dust on all the wining carebears and make them invulnerable to all attacks, but this would make me sad as carebear tears are oh so tasty"
"oh damn.... so your whole post was serious?it must suck to lack constistancy in argumentation.i feel bad for you."
"when running multiple clients and other programs the taskbar gets crowded making the show window identification option somewhat meaningless example: please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.would it be possible to change \"eve - chainsaw plankton\" to \"chainsaw plankton - eve\" or maybe even show the character portrait? i think that would be cool, just go down and click on the character portrait that i want to switch to."
"or, like, get windows 7."
"that is windows 7 oh and supported"
"well, with my version of windows, the eve clients stack upon themself. then, when i hover over the icon, the # of running clients pops up in the mini-display they have. my accounts are also color coded, so i can tell what char it is at a glance."
"greetings fellow pilots 'n pirates.i have a few suggestions that would improve gameplay for many people these are: firstly, multiple toon training on one accounts not everyone can afford two accounts, secondly a paint shop would be nice (example: so if you join a corp you can have special colours or decals to represent you're corp) and it is not always nice to see a ship exactly the same as you and have the exact same colours, thirdly training time is a bit ridiculous like i need to train 31 days or somethingg for tech two turrets by then i'll have a capital ship and no longer require medium tech two turrets then it'll be 129 days for tech two large turrets it really is unfair that you require small beam laser specialization level iv and small turrets skills that really has to be changed, also you should be able to claim/colonize planets and well i guess thats it... for nowmeracle out ***channle closes***"
"first point, no. stop being lazy, you can buy gametime with isk, its not difficult.second point, that would be interesting. but that would also give the lagmonster even more power..third point. you, know, nothing. capships will take you 6 months to just sit in the things. at least a year to fly one with basic supporting skills."
"2/10 because you got one to bite.just incase your uber noob and are serious, paint jobs would be awesome, but less lag would be even more amazing. training multiple characters on one account just means that ccp will lose more actual cash, and i really don't mind paying isk for 3 accounts (honestly it's not that hard to buy plex's)lastly, long training skills is actually what draws alot of people to the game, because when you finally get that carrier you actually feel like you've accomplished something.so the only thing i would support is the paint jobs, only after the lag monster is fixed.ac"
"i was half asleep and came up with this idea to better assist account management. for some reason, my internet was failing and refused to let me connect. regardless, now it is working. most players have alt characters. some have few, some have many. why not introduce an optional account linking procedure. could work as follows:i could log in to saithe on either eve-gate or eve-o, and select account options. from there, i could click link account. type in the name and password of the account. a confirmation code would be sent to the email address of the account being linked. from there on, my alt characters would be linked to saithe, so i would be able to access any options for my other accounts by logging in to saithe, instead of each account individually.this could be beneficial in that it would give players the ease of account management without multiple logins. this wouldn't be displayed publically, so keeping secrecy of your alts would be kept in tact.comments, discussion?"
"supporting my topic, obviously."
"also add the ability to pay for all accounts at the same time."
"that'd be a nice option too. have it check to see how many accounts are linked when you go to pay for an account, and pay for as many as you need to (if you don't need to pay for all of them at once)"
"as long as, as your op says, it's optional, i have no arguments not to allow it. that should suit the needs of both the uber paranoid who say \"no way am i linking my precious accounts\" and those who would like the convenience of being able to do so.supported."
"decent proposal. only reason i'm not supporting it is that ccp needs to add some layers of account protection behind the scenes before i think this can be feasible. after that and some more additions to account security to make the linking \"safe,\" it'd get my full support."
"yea, this feature would be 100% optional, if implemented. if you do not initiate the account linking, then your accounts won't be linked. plain and simple."
"1.0"
"i personally use a plated falcon for cynos when i am not just travelling, but cynoing for a fleet."
"your posts hurt my eyes, please go away."
"i would think that the act of dropping capitals itself is a \"commitment\".1. bait caps2. drop super caps3. ???4. profit!(i know i'm doing it wrong, but it doesn't make sense with three.)"
"ok, let's make an example of how your idea will work:- new patch changes some ship/module characteristic (for example changing the launchers you can use in a stealth bomber from cruise missile launchers to siege launchers);- you log in and launch in your cruise sb to kill some player ship,- the client start to upload the patch in the background,- you attack your target and your client happily launch the cruise missiles, at this point you can get different results.- a) the server is updated and say \"this ship can't use those weapons\" and your missiles disappear when the server reply to the client with your action results, you die horribly when your target react;- b) the server accept that your client is not upgraded and let you fire the missiles, you get a big range advantage against a a ship of the same model used by someone that has already updated the client.another example:- you have undocked in your ubership with 8 missile launcher slots and damage missile bonus and small drone bay; while you are doing your stuff the client is updated and suddenly half of your launcher go off line as you ship now has only 4 launcher slots, the missile damage bonus disappear but you get a large (but almost empty) drone bay and a bonus to drone hp and damage. you say \"what the?\" as your ship change under you. there are plenty of examples like those: asteroid ores changing composition, blueprint changing materials used, and so on and on. in a mmorpg all the players should use the same client and the same rules when interacting with the server. if people had the possibility to use a \"older\" client while it is updated we would have players duplicating the older versions that allow exploits or simply that allow them to use uber set up that were changed as unbalanced. very bad idea. in no game you can have people playing with different set of rules."
"could we try getting them working first?"
"here's for hoping. only i did pick my race on story but turns out i'm more of a amarr at heart lolz.i dont see why they would not just let us redo the hole toon when remaking them. as differnt races mite or probly will have differnt looks and the new looks of your race in 3d mite not be what you would have picked if it was 3d reather then 2d the first time though."
"can't you just rp your way out it? \"i'm a turncoat gallente who runs slaves for the amarr empire\". imagination"
"you could say that you got a crush on a minmitar pilot and, hoping to get him/her to notice you, started flying minmitar ships. that pilot never did notice you but the ships you flew started to grow on you. they appealed to the efficient minimalist in you and after that you just never wanted to fly anything else.wow... that was easy."
"of course it was, but let's face it, this thread was never really about rp anyway. it was about \"i don't like being amarr (or whatever) and want to change, cause i only picked that race to max out the attribs i wanted in the first place\"."
"not supported, if it gets to you that much buy a character that is of the appropriate race."
"why is using a sensor booster on a \"criminal\" a bad thing when i can sensor boost someone i'm not at war with? they should be the same thing. if you're supporting someone while they pound a wartarget you have not declared war with, you should have your ship taken away by concord.ps: the proposal is to make anyone who \"assists\" a person attacking a wartarget to get a gcc. only when another wartarget is being shot, not as soon as you do it"
"wooo yes, align to bookmark sound great!!"
"no offense but, can i suggest you look at one of the dozens of other threads about this and post there?below are two similar threads"
"lol, that would be too easy. one button click per planet. why would anyone want that. i love clicking till my pointer finger bleeds, don't you? supported"
"i am sorry - i don't want to troll or be mean...but whoever started this thread must not be from the usa because congress doesn't do $h!t :) and if you were from here you would know that. thank you - that is all. :)p.s. vote them all out in 2010!"
"adding this sort of service is probably inevitable.nearly every mmo that has skillpoints has allowed respecs at some point. that said, i am not sure i like it. however, you have to accept that at some point ccp is going to give away/make cheaper or faster certain skills because the longer the game goes and the greater the disparity in sp and ability to fly stuff becomes between established players and new ones, the harder it is for eve to gain new players.that is something that we might as well accept, something like giving new accounts a much longer period of 2x skill train, or eliminating (or granting on creation) all the learning skills is inevitable. when it comes i'll ***** about it as much as anyone, but it is going to happen someday.what i don't like though is this dabbling with opening an eve \"cash shop\" as in adding rmt to a premium subscription game. this is all the rage now in the industry, developers making stuff for a premium subscription game then holding out items and sometimes even content for the cash shop.once it is established that plex items can be used for things other than game time that genie is out of the bottle..."
"i see a lot of complaints about more risk averse players wanting this game made easier and safer and to me having access to an sp remap is the same type of thing. hell my main has more sp in useless skills than i like to think about but i don't complain (much) i just get on with what needs to be trained next. live with your choices, don't whine about them."
"cool story bro."
"no content in op. locked."
"mazz is on a roll"
"everytime i log in with any of my 7 accounts my windows move, this latest feature is making me think about not paying ccp the 100 euros a month for this game i currently do.if your gonna do it ccp do it right, pls ffs"
"+1, hope todays optional 'fix my stuff up's' patch fixes it."
"hell yes"
"just do it."
"chuck norris wants a new font..."
"20% more dps?, o.o, jesus freaking christ man, are you thinking before you make ******ed ideas lol?do you know how crazy the vindicator is going to be then? yeah, you have to take the vindicator into the picture here to.i know vindicators like to om nom nom ravens very fast today, but taking 100% of the raven's shield in 2 volleys is way to much tbh.like i have said earlier, a 5% dps increase and like 10% tracking increase should be a good start."
"first, tell me why 800mil ship should not kill 70mil ship \"nom nom very fast\"?second, nightmare can do 80% vindicator's damage at 300% range.third, vindicator's bonus was changed from 25% to 37.5% after people complains. so, vindicator is just the one fine tuned hybrid weapon ship. why it is so good in damage? because it has good dps with old good webifier (10% velocity factor per level). p.s. usual gallente ship is much worse. they do not have 37.5% damage bonus and bonused web (ridiculous tracking considering range)"
"your choice of formula makes very little sense to me (and i have a degree in math). saying its good because you can't think of anything better is not a good argument. it's kind of like telling someone you punched their son because you couldn't think of a better child of theirs to punch. at least explain why you think this is a useful way to score weapons. it seems you just took some variables that seemed pertinent, lined them up and threw some *'s and /'s in there. i mean, the first term seems to want to be the damage output and the second term the range, but why does multiplying them together make sense? why don't you just go ahead and multiply the result by tracking? and then multiply that by the cap penalty"
"uhm, i own a vindicator my self and i have seen what the vindi can do in damage dealing.i know the vindicator is supposed to take quite alot of dps, but my vindicator are already doing 1450 dps. and with a 20% dps boost, my vindicator will do 1800 dps with a cheap faction setup + cheap damage implants.do you know how freaking overpowered a 250k+ ehp and with around 2500 dps vindicator after the 20% dps boost is going to be even for a price of 800 mill isk?and not only that, but think about the bears who will come to the forum and cry like a mofo that someone in a vindicator popped his megathron in 15 secs."
"i said \"vindicator is just the one fine tuned hybrid weapon ship\" - it means vindicator works like a blaster boat should work. this ship has the fair dps advantage in exchange of the range disadvantage.i expect if ccp boost hybrid weapon (end of 2011,2012....) they will consider ships that become overpowered after boost.just for now i do not understand some things:why blasters have the almost the same tracking as ac. but ac falloff is longer in 2 times?neutron - 13(am)&16(null), 800mm - 24(emp)&36(barrage)why pulses have 85% blaster damage at 300% blaster optimal (with scorch >400%)why rails have less tracking than tachyon even with 37.5% ship bonus megathron 425mm - 0.01653, hyperion 425mm - 0.01202, tachyon - 0.0174"
"it is in general a good idea to ignore people that try to argument about her slaved multi billion isk bs as baseline(that also got fixed webs instead the 60% fail most people are supposed to work with) while totally ignoring the shortcoming of all more common t1 and t2 hulls. btw nmx i can do 1.45k dps(before heat) in my affordable mega(that i don't fly anymore), that doesn't make it a good solo gank ship or a passable small gang ship in low sec most of the time since you can't put this dps well on the targets and it is terrible at catching stuff."
"supporting option for increased security."
"i would certainly consider buying it"
"ftw"
"sounds good"
"great idea protect my stuff ccp!"
"yeah baby yeah"
"no amount of key fobs or additional security will ever beat common sense.9 times out of 10 the problem starts with the idiot at the keyboard.... the ones who click on links to sites that are not legitimate... the ones who download software without restraint.you can't fix stupid... and i seriously doubt ccp will even bother to do this properly if such a proposal would come to pass.as long as its option i don't have a problem with it.but mark my words... this is a patch at best... not a solution."
"passwordless login a la ssh please."
"support??, u've got it m8, good ideas in here"
"this is part of the account security enhancements proposal which is still in the csm backlog.we can discuss this again during the december summit and try to get it raised in priority."
"as long as it stays optional..."
"so, to clarify, how many times do we have to raise what is obviously a good idea before ccp will consider it? three? five?"
"over 9000"
"thanks tea, however the security tokens seems to be a small footnote in the proposal you linked. it's mostly concerned with character transfer proceedings.i might add that if account management was secured by rsa key it would be much much harder for anyone to initiate an unauthorized character transfer. i want to stress that rsa keys are perhaps the single best security mechanism that could be added and we should be clear that it should be the first priority, not a \"long term security improvement to consider\""
"sounds good"
"ooh yeah, this would be great. maybe as an alternative to the rsa, a usb or smartcard thing maybe. got the usb plugged in then don't need password."
"support"
"i suppose this!!! i have used rsa while i was in the u.s. navy and we currently use it at my current job."
"a keyfob would be nice. it would give me an excuse to carry around more eve related stuff on my person."
"yeah, this is something i like."
"i have to agree. if i want to move a small fleet of my own ships to do something somewhere else i don't want to do courier. i want to bloody well do it myself in a my ship. don't care how just care that i can without the extraneous bs involved.i support the idea, not necessarily this particular implementation, but definitely the core idea"
"against this proposal."
"absolutely hate the idea of allowing the purchase of remaps."
"meh"
"any move towards micro transaction even if milimetric is the end.. really end for this game."
"plex for isk is enough. do not add a payshop in eve!"
"that terrible feature increase the demand of the plexes while not increasing supply. make it otherwise, increase plex supply by implementing this feature.let people pay 35$ (double plex price) for free neural remap (an option available in account management). for this fee you are receiving free neural remap and a plex to use or to sell."
"terribly wrong direction ccp"
"neural remaps once a year beyond the extra one you get at the character's creation is it should be.i do not want to see this game on a slippery slop to being a space based wow."
"i use this app every day, both for character tracking and reading the blogs. i would happily lend monetary support should ccp grant permission for it. i would hate to see it go by the wayside."
"+1come on ccp, just employ these guys to turn capsuleer into an even better eveonline mobile tool than it already is.use it every day and if nothing happens, thanks for the best app on my iphone"
"capsuleer rocks. i have used it since i started playing the game. it so nice to have a mobile application to check skills and plan your training queue.even more so is the blog pack attached to the application. for the times that i have not been able to play eve lately this has kept me interested in the game. i have learned much about the game and enjoy chuckles from the escapades of pirates. without it my interest for eve will die out unless time starts to free up more.note: if you built evegate into capsuleer you would have much success. most people can't play eve whenever the would like, nor have the ability to use a computer to check evegate during work/school hours. majority of people have phones and can take a quick 30secs to 5 mins to use them."
"please ccp there must be something you can do some ground you can give ? make it an official product and allow us to login and change skills etc. surely pj sam and roc could be compensated adequately for their time and effort without breaking the ccp bank. i'm sure capsuleer has helped the bottom line no end already, it has been a first intro to eve for many of my rlf friends and helped me seal the deal to get them up and running on a trial and ultimately subs for some."
"+1 to op"
"love this app. dont let it die!"
"supported.ccp reach out to these guys, they have done some really good work. they are obviously quite passionate about the game.my gut tells me that ccp has decided internally to develop the application and just being mum on it. if they are, unfortunately that's the risk that the guys at capsuleer took when they developed the application. i really hope that's not the case. ccp probably has one of the smartest pool of players of any mmo community. it would bode well with them to form partnerships with shops like this and allow developers to charge a reasonable fee to recoup investment dollars. in the long term, they will encourage players to help them innovate and ultimately grow subscribers in making tools available to help them in what is a very complex and great game."
"capsuleer may be a great iphone app, but it's not ccp's concern. let's be real and focus any aggression/pleading to the ones responsible - the capsuleer devs. if ccp gets involved, they'll open the door to a whole mess of problems that they frankly don't need (showing bias, etc).therefore, i'm saying \"ccp, keep your hands off capsuleer.\" if you love the app, plead with the devs to keep it open, but don't spit against the wind on something ccp honestly can't deal with.not supported."
"suported"
"they don't \"require\" a damn thing. they want it. they -want- to get paid to develop capsuleer, and decided that it wasn't worth their time otherwise. there's no reason to give the capsuleer developers special treatment compared to all the other eve-related apps out there."
"actually, it is entirely the point of this petition.-liang"
"supportedi'm not going to get involved with who is wrong or right, i just wanted to say that this app is invaluable to me and it's a crying shame to see it get plugged. all the parties involved with this should be dammed ashamed of themselves and if it's too much hassle to continue ... then make the code open source so as others can continue the project."
"if liang is correct, why would ccp play favorites to 3rd parties? was what they were asking for, would it make 3rd parties like evemon and eft get special licensing agreements with ccp to make their software? i use capsuleer, but you guys started this before you know whats going on here.not supported."
"this is really a bad day for people loving eve and owning an iphonesupportedsent from my iphone"
"++"
"there's nothing to speculate about whose \"fault\" it is. capsuleer devs are pulling the plug because they cannot charge for their app. they developed their app with the intent to charge for portions of it, and did so before obtaining a license from ccp. the only thing they need a license for is to charge for it. there is no roadblock other than money.allowing people to charge real money for 3rd party apps is a far more dangerous precedent than all the plex for remaps rabble that's been going on. a thousand times not supported."
"as the writer of a newsletter that frequently mocks a few alliances (and corps, and individuals as well), i find it singularly irritating that i cannot link their names in the newsletter."
"no excuse to not fix, low hanging fruit and simple convenience and all that."
"this should have been in the game a long time ago."
"yeah, this would be nice."
"i'm in support of this. after fiddling around with evemon and working the numbers i don't believe this could get outrageous. it offers stopping points to an other wise 1 year long cycle. for instance, a miner who has mem/int training will want to roll mem/int until he has maxed out his character development in that area. however, pretend this miner have one year decides to max planetary interaction before going over to the science skills. he would remap his skills for 2 months before working towards sciences for another 10 months not fully buffed. to most that wouldn't seem logical and so the miner might just train science and skip what he really wanted to do.same can be said for someone training in ships and wanting to pick up tech 2 heavy drones or an intercepter training for pvp tackle training for speed first. i don't think this is as major as a problem as everyone is talking about. at most i can see someone trying to remap once every 2 or 3 months. anymore then that and people will just be sinking money ineffectively. for those of you who don't want to save up for multiple plexes every month its still cost effective to try and plan while forgoing that one skill v that takes forever to train although you would love it.i'm fully in support of this and i highly doubt that this will be the doomsday prediction everyone on the forums is crying about."
"had you actually read the doomsday predictions you would now be realizing that you and the point are not even in the same postal code.allow me to elaborate (again):the point is, you are now allowing plex to be used to evade an inconvenient game mechanic, so that those who are willing to acquire them (be it via isk or by rl cash) can skirt around one of \"the rules\"(tm) of the game - that being, thou shalt not remap thy attributes more than once a year.the concern isn't with being allowed to remap more than once a year (i think once every six months would be grand) - it is to what other uses will ccp decide to extend this \"pay to avoid the consequences\" business model?\"oh no my alliance lost our supercap fleet because we all self destructed!\"\"480 plex please and this problem too can be wiped away as if it never happened!\"yes, my example is extreme, but hopefully you actually understand why we're concerned now."
"actually i still don't. you said that was the rules of the game but i'm pretty sure those rules have been changed before. when i first started playing, which was a long time ago and that account is lost to the history of the internet, i don't ever recall neuro remapping. i picked my character and that was it. some skills were handed to me and my attributes were pre-set. they changed that system and i would have to say that worked for the best. we can now neuro remap once a year and that system is grand.its still to clingy though for the first 50 million skillpoints. its hard to do anything super well until you maxed it out but if you're maxing even one thing out it takes a very long time, even with 33 in primary skill. as far as i understand plex's are eve's way of character control. they allow you to do specific things to your character like play for free and in this case remap. money only affects your character though. it can't affect your ship or how well you fly it. in the case of plex for remapping it will indirectly affect how well you fly it but minimally as you're character still has to train through the skills that take a lot of time even maxed.furthermore you can already spend a whole lot of money on plexes, buy supercap ships on market or pay an alliance to trade you some and \"undo\" your mistakes. the only way to fix that though is to take away the plex system which means it will go back to third parties.if you spend more money on eve you will get ahead faster. same as any other game even though you have to do it through third parties. this is going to be a great change for people wanting to spend time specializing in minor job roles that don't have the ability to sink a full year into like trading or archeology. it really isn't doomsday at all."
"not supported.plex is the mechanism to convert rl $ to isk.all other in-game activities are bought with isk. neural remapping should be controlled by isk as well. a better solution is to have ccp implement neural remapping as part of the game.suggestions:1. loot drop from pirate npcs that allows for neural remap.2. issue bpos that build a neural remapping device.3. nueral remap devices as part of lp store.if you then want to use plex to convert your rl $$ into isk to purchase a neural remap device, then do so at your convenience."
"what?! that's even worst then the original idea! no period imo. neural remap once a year after you use up your free one is how it should be.this is not wow or a korean mmo."
"i'm just agreeing because i was swayed by the pretty screenshots"
"now don't put a bug in ccps collective ears... they might want to start advertising the latest in intel cpu technology or what not.i'm all for it as long as the contents of said ads are strictly game relatedlax"
"nope, not true at all. i dont know who gave you that idea, but they've misled you."
"ok you are right, i'm sorry i did not look it. sorry again."
"i support b) revoque the insure for aggressors (cause it's an illegal activitybecause it makes sense. you shouldn<U+FFFD>t get paid for it and being able to make a business out of it."
"first, a link -"
"in stead of increasing costs... they should apply benefits instead.sov costs are incredibly insane... that's why you don't see them claim... well trashy systems...so instead of making it worse... give them a reason to claim the empty systems... say a slight percentage boost to reinforcement...less fuel consumption on pos's... or something that's slightly increased but not enough to break the balance... that and it wont compound the costs as it will balance out."
"my crews only eat the finest sawdust and can wear casual clothes."
"perhaps the idea should be moved - not to ships - but to pos's.a pos will run a tad more efficiently with 'military / scientists / janitors / and so on...neat idea - not sure if i like it or dislike it though."
"i can see it now. ccp has the opportunity to usurp zynga's grasp on the entire facebook community.eve online: crewville"
"too many trolling indeed.just because some people wants hic sec to become a safer place are just called \"carebears\". and invited to left the game. if i were a mod i'll give more than one warning. another argument is >>\"you blame agains suicide ganks? you troll\"<< and even threaten to report to op. another argument is >>\"you say op is rigth? you must be an alt of the op\"<<i can see many hates carebears (don't know why) and too little respect to those players that likes to play without pvp. this is a sandbox. ok but this not a game where to destroy players ships and pods is mandatoryi'm agree with the op. i think suicide ganks must be more punished. fly safe."
"would like to see a cruiser class ship which would be able to link signals from fleeted scan ships probes,1) cruiser class2) decent tank3) able to use covert ops cloak or possibly, speed hit when cloaked?4) able to gather data from fleeted ships deployed scan probes & receive scan res bonuses5) able to direct fleet via warp to command w/o warping itselfgranted would need some offsets like very few high slots maybe only 2-3...sorry for not being clear in initial post: would like this ship to be like an awacs or ccc where yes all friendly fleet probe results can be used by ccc ship to more rapidly determine possible targets & perhaps warp the entire fleet there (w/wo itself) or possibly warp different wings to different target groups. target bm would automatically be fed to fleet groups / scan ships."
"thats not the point. the point is that a you can;t really do anything to counter a cloak. be it a spy watching you for a hot drop, or a macro ratter sitting cloaked in a safe spot. once that cloak is active they are invulnerable. the point of the threat was a possible counter. no whining just a mere suggestion. but meh."
"that is like asking for a counter to sitting in station or a pos."
"yes i was quite aware that constructive and sensible replies were few and far between when it comes to forums. people troll too much.i'll tell you what guys, i'll do you a favor.elvor dark cries and rages. \"what an emo, lol.\"seriously? it's like i said, if you can't be constructive, then please don't bother to post. all your doing is avoiding the subject by exclaiming the same things we've all heard time and time again. \"get out!\"dareaper was right to an extent, although it's the afk cloakers that bug me most. it's all well and good coming in and looking for an easy kill, but to effectively camp the system 24/7 is taking it a bit too far.massive emphasisit's the fact that people don't do this and they can leave their alt cloaked up at any time and not even have to be there to cause a nuisance. quite simple really and it's not like my idea covered only that alone, there was a strategic element to it also.massive emphasis"
"elvor,it's a waste of time. these so-called pvpers do not want risk added to their playstyle, even though they are able to influence and pose a potential risk to others.the most you can hope for is that the sensible person is reading and understanding exactly what's wrong with these breeds of afk cloakers."
"yeah you could be right matrixskye, i was just hoping people would discuss the idea, not troll me on the first reply to my post. more replies like yours would be welcome though and i personally don't think people should just give in at the first sign of opposition."
"isn't that the point of... covert reconnaissance?"
"i support any mechanism against afk cloakers."
"if you don't like people to become afk you have an ease solution. ask ccp to monitor is a client is inactive more than 15 minutes. and disconect this client from the game. but leave cloak devices untouched. a nerf in this sistem will affect many player like me how likes using sb or covert ops or blockade runners or..."
"supported!"
"the amount of bugs and issues brought forward by tyrannis 1.1 is quite simply disgusting. many/most of which were not addressed or resolved in the \"optional\" patch.the amount of bugs this patch has spawned can be found hereafter reading through the list of bugs the current state of the game is clearly unacceptable for a paid for product. for some people the game is unplayable simply due to being logged out too frequently.i propose rolling back to pre 1.1 and getting ccp to do the 1.1 patch properly and actually implementing some sort of a qc process.all in all i believe this thread to be the key as 1.1 is a perfect example of ccps lack of care towards product quality"
"i'm not sure what the #### they did...or what they where thinking.i may not have suffered nearly as bad (and i'm a mac client user for crying out loud) but i've heard non-stop complaints from my membership and my alliance.this is utterly insane.what the hell is ccp using for coders? monkeys?seriously? do they even beta test there own product anymore?i'm sorry... but this has me utterly scared of patches anymore.i can't support this but then i wan't to support this... roll back? how the heck do we know it was working before then?the lack of qc is outrageously beyond stupid."
"this will never happen. ever."
"if you have a subscription just cancel it and enter in the comment/reason the tyrannis 1.1 patch and ccp's continuing lack of dedication, professionalism, and 'excellence', that's what i've done."
"not really sure weither to classify this as a propsal or a petition. basically i would like to know if there is anything in the pipe for the audio aspect of the game, as well as provide a place for suggestion & discussion on what sort of changes we players would like to see(hear :p).we've all heard the meme. i personally stopped playing with sound a few months after i started playing, but i recently relocated my computer to living room and hooked it up to the home theater system, so i decided to give it another go.the result; aside from some changed sound effects, all the old problems & bugs that made it unattractive then still exist. not to mention the sound's just really dont do most things justice, except megapulses, they sound incredible. ever hear dual 1000mm rails? it sounds more like a bb gun then some huge super duper siege weaponry. @ccp: you have stated many times that your intent is to create the best, most comprehensive sci-fi universe. how do you intend to fulfil such a lofty goal with an audio system that is bug ridden, resource intensive, and all around crap atm. sound is such an integral part of any experience, what would a top fuel drag or formula 1 race be without the rummble and scream of the engines? a sports game without the roar of the crowd (insert vuvuzella joke here) you get the idea. sound is incredibly important for adding depth and emotion to any experience.so is there anything planned? on the white board? some things i would personally like to see:positional sound with hq encoding, something like dolby digital, thx would be winsauce.some fine tuning of existing effects, in that many sound effects drown out others, such as hardners, electronics & ewar being excessively loud when compared to guns, reps/boosters & engines.more variation in the sound effects for more flavor, better impact sounds.streamlining of the existing sound engine or acquire a new one, so that it does not degrade from game performance as badly as it currently does.more sound options, maybe i would like to have only ui sounds, but nothing else.decouple the station backgroud sounds from the \"world sounds\" category (specific case, the chanting in amarr type stations; its way louder, runs longer and all around more annoying then any other station world sound) anyway thats just my 0.02 on it, would love to hear what others have to say on the topic."
"not all mid to low level reactions get done in deep 0.0, so prolly gonna take a while before you see that"
"i find it much faster to just go and click on the correct client, no need to mouse over and wait for the thing to pop up with the visuals and then pick which one and click. plus it should be an easy change."
"i would like to suggest a feature that when you are in the standing tab of the character sheet you can right click on a corporation and choose to track your standing with that corporation with a in-chat message.a more advanced version of that would also tell you how much standing you need to gain with that corp to reach the next level of agent missions."
"due to rl (work and family wise) time constraints i'm forced to drop this candidacy. i had big projects and ideas for eve that would had required alot of my rl time, and i refuse to run just to be an \"average\" candidate. i won't be supporting any other candidacy, but i feel that your vote matters. so i plea everyone to vote in someone. the more votes a candidate has behind him, the greatest moral empowerment he has behind him when he discusses things with ccp.best luck to all other candidates running for csm6. aelius 2011 csm candidacy guide-lines after some thought i came to the conclusion that addressing many issues in the csm next year was going to be counter-producing, since ccp is going to have very little time for eve. vampires turning to dust will have their hands full so i've chosen just a few issues/features to take upon discussion at 2011 csm.1st ladies and gentleman, is the complete removal of local chat in nullsec and lowsec. (as it now works in wh space).i know that i will lose a lot of votes in pursuing such a goal, specially from carebears and macrominers/macroratters.the last two i couldn't care less, since they aren't actual eve players (cheaters instead), the first ones i can understand that my candidacy is a direct attack to their \"eve way of life\". so i expect to be thrown every thing at me including the kitchen sink.reasons to remove local from lowsec and nullsec:- make \"dangerous\" space really dangerous. without the \"all seeing\" local, players must rely on other ingame features like d-scan. - tactics will improve, since cloak ships will have an huge role, increasing the \"unknown\" factor in a battle.- the value of lowsec and nullsec commodities will increase adding to risk vs reward.- small gangs can now more effectively roam in nullsec making large fleet battles a bit less a common place, thus reducing lag created from them. important blows to enemies can now be done using less numbers.disadvantages:- if you use lowsec and nullsec like an high reward highsec.2ndthe introduction of tactical environments in most null and lowsec eve solar systems as seen here:linkageoveur's post from 2005these two features working together would enrich the value of null and lowsec, taking eve back to its roots, as a rough, harsh and immerse pvp game. 3rd force ccp to act upon bots and macroers with swift justice (ban), rmters or not."
"who is aelius? rl and ingame presentation aelius in rl:name: ricardoage: 33nationality: portuguesehobbies: fishing & evethe computer games world has always fascinated me, from the the long gone zx spectrum, passing sega megadrive, until todays date pc's.amongst my favorites are:- chucky egg (zx spectrum)- the great escape (zx spectrum)- ufo. enemy unknown- megalomania (a simple but hugely addictive sega megadrive strategy game)- starcontrol- diablo- warcraft- starcraft- master of orion 1&2- c&c (original westwood)- total annihilation- star trek bridge commander (best star trek game ever)- half life- homeworld- nexus the jupiter incident- rogue spear- supreme commanderthis just to name a few... also, since i know myself, i always was attracted to space, since my childhood my favorites were cartoons with space as a theme, also i watched cosmos with carl sagan (takes a bow), original star trek, battlestar galactica and space 1999.if you add those two factors, you will end up with a guy that was destined to play eve.that takes me to the second part of my csm candidate presentation.aelius in eve:from a friend, back in 2002, i was told that a new game was in beta testing, something called \"eve. the second genesis\".in the beginning i didn't make case of it, until my friend shown me some screenshots... immediately my 1st reaction was to sell my mother in order to enter beta testing, which i finally did in december 2002. to be honest with you, when trying beta for the 1st time my eyes went to tears in the presence of this game. i can't really describe the feeling... it was overwhelmingly beautiful and revolutionary back in 2002 (still is).since then, i've been stuck with eve. eve is like great sex, the better it gets, the more you want it. this is perhaps imo ccp's greatest problem, they created such a great game that, no matter what they do, players just want more!!!!more!!!!why should you vote for me then?- do i know code, or do i understand how ccp develop their game?!... no- am i some over-qualified player, that is going to enlighten ccp at csm?!... no- do i have second party interests to defend at csm?!... no- do i see this candidacy as a way to be recruited by ccp?!... no- am i a player that loves the game?! yes!!!!!now to meet the real candidate behind aelius character clickaelius fishing on the coast of portugal"
"guess who doesn't have my vote."
"i have a little over a year in game. i don't agree with the comment that veterans in the game can't relate to new players. i still remember the pains of my first six months. as do the people i met that had been playing for three to five years. it is kind of hard not to remember those instances of wtf! i hope that you are not suggesting that ccp 'dumb down' eve. to make it more appealing to new players.the challenge of the game is one of the factors of eve that is most appealing. you do have to put in effort to prosper. i don't think that the people that are playing today would still be paying to play a 'dumb downed version of the game that grabbed teir attention in the first place. other than the large volume of questions and answers flowing on the help channel. i always got a reply to the 'dumb' questions i asked. through watching it. i learned from others questions.the community that i came in contact with was also very helpful, and had helpful tips from when they only had a few months ingame, three or four years before.please don't advocate 'dumbing down ' the game"
"do you support the introduction of more microtransactions ingame?please post \"yes\", \"no\" or \"cosmetic only\"in support of the no votes i have resigned from the csm as 1st alternate say no to microtransactions, keep eve awesome!last tally: no 79.03% | yes 5.02% | cosmetic only 11.23% | other 4.73%"
"please include yes, no or cosmetic only on the first line of your response so that i can add up the results easily.you do not need to support this topic and all thumbs up will be ignored during the countif you wish to comment please add it on the third line.while this proposal will stay open, i will be compiling the results a week after incursion is released. please be resonable - people are allowed their opinions and trolling is not necessary - there are many valid arguments for each side and there are infact more logical arguments for having microtransactions ingame.example reasons to vote;vote no - you think that because you pay a set fee each month that you should have access to all the options and features ingame that everyone else getsvote cosmetic - you think that the only microtransactions ingame should be those that allow you to buy items that effect nothing of consequence (such as plex for *boobies, or hats, nice clothes, nipples, etc) which do not effect anything (although they may restrict the sandbox and lessen the chances of more miniproffesions) but what something looks like and how many layers of clothes you wear when you play the game in the privacy of your own home...vote yes - you do not mind 12yearolds stealing their parents money because they're so crap at the game that they need to buy more animals for their farm.. because you can then you blow em up and take all their stuff!!thanks,t'amber"
"ccp probably has difficulty fueling growth from subscriber count so maybe theyre trying to get more money from existing subscribers. this is a bad idea and is going to end up corrupting the fun of the game.i dont have a problem with the micro-transaction sort of things ccp has now. character transfer, portrait change, and plex for gametime, that sort of stuff is fine because it doesnt really require you to do this to get an ingame advantage, or else is something you would be paying anyways. i don't even have a problem with the cosmetic, hats and stuff. but there is no guarantee that ccp will make items that are not purely cosmetic but are also useful in pvp or pve or stuff like that. even if the current people have pure intentions there is no guarantee that the people that replace them will.so i'm saying no, let's have the cosmetic stuff only, but i dont really believe for a second that ccp will stop at cosmetic items."
"how much is there left to add? we already have plex for isk / isk for almost anything, so we might as well go all in- i'd like to see a plex payment option for character transfers, portrait swaps and pizza."
"[cosmetic only]depends.microtransactions for portrait/plastic surgery or other aesthetical changes up to and under special circumstances including namechange - maybe.microtransactions for vanity items in game that do not yield any practical advantage - maybe, but i'd rather see the development time for that go to things that are actually useful.microtransactions for items/changes that give the buyer an actual ingame advantage over others - clearly not. that shouldnt be the case in any game, and even less in one thats subscription-based too."
"no.at least not for anything that affects in game performance - remaps do affect in game performance."
"*** no"
"no"
"nooooooooooooooooooooooo...edit: also no to cosmetic only."
"no.ccp state in an interview that they are planned for only cosmetic effects yet the first instance will deliver an ingame advantage ( plex for remap )."
"no."
"noi am crying inside myself."
"this is my concern as well.although the waters are a bit muddy (you can use plex to pay for a set of +5's, for example), the proposed plex for remaps is taking it a step further, as (for example) you can't lose a remap by getting podded.i am concerned about the slippery slope -- where does it end? plex for titans?"
"no.absolutely not. eve is a wonderful game. it goes beyond being a game even since its depth is unparalleled and can be used to study many faucets of human behavior. please, ccp, do not ruin what you have with what will surely be micro-transactions of escalating value. they will debilitate the game and destroy everything you built. keep the game as it is. leave the micro-transactions for your other two products (dust and wod)."
"cosmetic onlyccp please do not destroy your own game. many people play it because this is the \"wine\" of mmos - they do not want to play cheap beer in cardboard boxes. please clear the $ signs out of your eyes and stay true to your fans."
"no. even cosmetic micro-transactions will inevitably lead to micro-transactions that give tangible in-game advantages. hell, the very first implementation of this is something that will give a tangible in-game advantage. do not put micro-transactions in eve, they will ruin all that the game is."
"no."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"that's the best analogy of eve there is. eve is classy and somewhat exclusive because of the people who choose to play it. this is eve's best and most valuable asset. adding micro-transactions will alienate your core audience, and turn eve into a run-of-the-mill mmorpg. i don't get why ccp would want to mess with eve's proven to be successful formula."
"no.do that and i unsub."
"hell no."
"cosmetic only."
"if they add micro transactions, they can kiss my credit card transactions good bye.kudos ccp, youve been slowly killing off your loyal customer base to attract new phantom players that never came, and now you want to squeeze what little you have left?"
"no.what is next? remap skills for plex?ships you can buy if you use plex? i mean trade plex for ships (special ships you cannot buy in market).don't destroy eve just to get more money."
"noeven if it will only be cosmetic to start with, sooner or later management will \"force\" features ingame that will make a difference regarding gameplay. and this will give players who are willing to fork out $ for the game an even bigger advantage then they allready have."
"no!"
"nolast time i checked i didn't sign up for gunbound"
"noabsolutely efinently not, we've already seen something like - look at myspace, wonderful idea, then they gave in to management which emphasized cashflow and instead focusing on the core of the product they've overloaded it with cashflow generating features. the result ? myspace is dead to facebook. comon people dont kill one of the best internet phenomenae we've seen."
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic only.any out-of-game actions that give bonuses in-game are bad. and not only for the game balance. plexes are in the grey area, as they need to be sold to another player giving a benefit to more than just the one buying plex. cosmetic transactions i'm willing to accept as long as there is reasonable amount of content even without spending rl-iskies (ie. not \"do you want to wear something else than a burlab sack? or maybe use something else than the standard character model? pay us $2 and you can choose from our premium customer selection!\"). a pink dress doesn't make you fly faster or shoot better no matter how pink you make it."
"i am glad to see so many people are in favour of removing plexes from the game. because that is what everyone who says no is in favour of, right?stop complaining about irrelevant stuff, cosmetic microtransactions stuff is far less important than current buying of isk and chars with real money.so cosmetic"
"no"
"no, but its too late now.pretty soon there will be new ships that can only be acquired by buying them from the ccp store. just like in that other space mmo."
"no thanks"
"no. none, nada, zillch, nein, zero."
"cosmetical only.it's still a business, and doesn't affect the play experience a bit."
"nowhile i'm fine with cosmetic only i'm voting no as allowing any form of microtransaction sets a really bad precedent"
"no"
"no !"
"no"
"no !!!!!!!"
"for the love of god no.even cosmetic things suck, because you lock out an entire part of the game experience for everyone except those who can afford it. i pay my monthly fee, makes sense that every aspect of the game is open to me (if not totally feasible; i'm not going to be officer-fitting a nyx any time soon)."
"no!as easy as it is. introduce microtransactions for clothing in incarna and i will introduce the \"eve nudist movement\". lets see how funny parents will find it if they see their child docking in jita with 800 peeps on 4-4 showing their boobs and willys. \"son, i am not paying for this insult anymore\".:)on a more serious side:i strongly believe that this is the absolute wrong way. today its only for vanity goods, tomorrow its for skills, fancy weapons or rare ships? you just can<U+FFFD>t be serious."
"absolutely no!it starts with remap for plex (which is an advantage and not some cosmetical stuff) and ends where?...just no..."
"no"
"no!"
"hm.....noif you really wanna do things like that,let us buy those things for iskies.but only stuff that has exactly no gameplay effect!"
"no.absolutely the worst thing that could ever happen to eve. the fact there are no micro transactions has been one of the very few reasons why players still play eve. i dont want eve to become just another mmo."
"no"
"cosmetic only.i never log on to the ingame boards but this is potentially ridiculous. i was initially simply going to say no but i realize that if ccp commits to staying only with cosmetic items, such as clothing for incarna characters, anybody rich or stupid enough to fund eve with their money is fine by me. as soon as it approaches the realm of game-play impact, some of eve's core fundamentals will be damaged."
"no."
"no!!!"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only (with reservations)actually, i hate any micro-transactions and/or cash shops but since they are a sign-of-the-times in mmos and are pretty much becoming inevitable in every game whether old or new, then if they must be, let them be truly cosmetic only. yeah, i did state that i support the use of plex for neural remaps but - 1) i don't believe that that feature is going to be as terrible as everyone seems to think it will be, and 2) that was before we learned that ccp is looking at other micro-transactions as well.my guess is that these mts are going to somehow hinge on the use of plex to open up premium shops of cosmetic 'goodies' for the new avatars since the plex are already in-game and are more-or-less an accepted feature. if i am wrong and they actually set up a cash shop where you must use your cc to buy some form of token for use in the shop, then i imagine that i will be leaving the game along with many others because that type of mt will inevitably lead to the purchase of grey-area items that could have an indirect impact on gameplay."
"a far smaller advantage than buying isk and chars with real money, which is commonly accepted."
"noby all means, keep posting. ccp has a long history of listening to and accomodating the desires of its playerbase. the accountant never seems to have any input into how the game is run."
"no"
"no"
"noemphatically no! because it certainly won't stop at cosmetic items. greed is a universal human trait."
"nooooo"
"no!"
"no"
"nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnoooooooooooooooooooo........^^"
"to be honest: if micro-transactions are introduced, i'm probably leaving eve."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"**** yeah"
"no no no no no no no no."
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no"
"no, sry if eve is changing to that, it wouldn't be the game that i love to play"
"nogoddamn it ccp wtf!?!"
"simply one word: no!this would be the end of my career..."
"no!actually, i could live with a \"cosmetic only\", where things like cloth and accessories are paid by mt. why not let the sissies pay my game development?but overall i am against the whole idea to milk players."
"yes.some people really want to be special snowflakes. i don't care if they get the opportunity to be special by buying a different-skinned megathron, an exclusive piece of clothing from the microtransaction store, or a special edition shuttle. the mt store shouldn't be able to provide anything that will have a significant impact in the game world, eg: no combat ships or modules.we already get special ships as presents (jovian shuttle, zephyr, primae), only one of which has a variant becoming available as a player-created good (the primae model being used for the noctis). these items represent ingame advantages that older players get over newer players.all you folk saying \"no\" are effectively saying that token ships, plex and gtc should be removed from the game."
"no.i already pay you for this broken ass game. i'm not going to pay you more and more as you sneak in things that will give people an edge further down the line.microtransactions = i quit."
"no"
"absolutely not."
"no!i would quite happily support a workable proposal that curtailed both of those as well."
"for us lesser skilled pilots micro transactions have been an important part of eve online for a long time. i have been using 10% more dps and 15% max velocity bonus off and on for i think 9 months now. it's an additional $4 per week but worth it, at least i have a chance in pvp with it. don't take micro transactions away please."
"nooh my this is going places"
"noi don't want or need this in my eve"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyif you have to do it, letting the little ***s and girls play with pics is fine but remaps or sp or ships or anything that effects game play is going too far."
"noit's a big step to introduce this, and a much smaller step to make it imho worse by selling usefull stuff and make it less of a sandbox, destroying a unique selling point of eve."
"soft no.i would be open to microtransactions if they were solely a means for new players to catch up - some sort of accelerated sp accrual. i don't mind plex for remap. however, based on the interview, microtransactions is going to end up being shiny ships, which is just terrible.hard no on cosmetic. that is just dumb, and creates a 2-tiered play experience with no upside."
"no."
"no"
"hell no.ccp should fix the game...less on this microtransactionwhateverthefrakitscalledcrap."
"nohell... no!"
"despite a pretty big outcry from csm internally (with zero feedback from ccp on the matter) and clear player support against microtransactions, ccp is just going ahead with plex for neural remap in winter expansion. i have zero faith that ccp will honor the statement of confining microtransactions to vanity items only. i can just imagine the \"epiphany\" that might be announced in a dev blog some fine day after microtransaction items become more commonplace (and i'm betting incarna will be the breeding ground galore for that): \"oh hey! we just decided that to take control of the rmt situation where supercaps are being sold third-party, we'll just sell them ourselves! it's win win, guys! rmt'ers got no market and gtfo our game and ccp makes more money to expand your virtual world even more. yay!\" because i don't trust ccp to keep their word on the matter of \"vanity only\" down the road, i vote a strong no on the matter of microtransactions.i'm bitterly disappointed in the lack of communication with csm on this matter."
"i'm not looking forward to the continuation of these player base angering trends, but i have a sick feeling in my stomach that they're only going to continue."
"no!"
"played for 5 years now through thick and thin, and this might be the thing that causes me to stop playing. so no."
"no.i dont care about stuff like clothes or so in incarna later. but nothing like plex for remap or sp."
"hi, cat here.i jolly well say no to microtransactions. gtc/plex was enough to swallow, but we accept it because the time you buy goes to another player. character transfer / portrait swap were alread borderline. this is just money in ccps pocket for bits in a database. x"
"now were getting new faces in the next expansion. um we want fixes of old stuff not face lifts.we got pi thats needs tweakingwe have faction warfare that needs tweakingwe got 0.0 mechanics that needs tweakingwe got a very un balanced empire..snd the all mighty lag ..think of the children"
"full support. hoping csm hands ccp a major drubbing after the awful patch fiasco. if ever there was a need for further evidence that ccp has major problems with their qa program, one need not look further than the patch from hell."
"i still support this, quality over quantity, no feature left behind."
"i concur. i do love expansions, but i, as i believe others would agree, can wait for expansions.they're nice, neat, show awesome shiny stuff. (i love shiny stuff), but, i'd rather play it later, with all the bugs worked out, rather then complain about the broken stuff."
"i've been having a lot of problems with eve lately...standings have been changed, my selected item and overview windows get mapped off the top of my display, multiple smas show the same contents...ask around and i'm sure you'll hear similar stories. rather than rollback the ill-advised \"patches\" ccp insists on issuing more, which would be great if they fixed anything. this is just the latest development in a long line of complaints about new features over fixing old problems.so i would like to call for a subscription strike. if ccp doesn't do something major to fix these glitches we should let our subscriptions lapse for the month of november. assuming that there are 300 k active subscriptions, ccp makes 4.5 million dollars a month...so they would lose that much money. maybe then they would take these problems seriously.i await your response capsuleers."
"that would be nice"
"old cyno, nevar forget."
"supported"
"i spend many lonley nights on youtube watching the ol'cyno effect... ahh happy days"
"i'm one of them lollight ion ii > rocket"
"sounds fun lol"
"supported. one caution regarding an optional system is the fact that non-users of the blizzard tokens have had (probably software) tokens put on their stolen accounts to lock them out of their own accounts. this is not a deal-killer by any means, but thought needs to be put into a process for efficiently handling/preventing situations like this if tokens are implemented."
"i support this suggestion."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"your the one not using your head. no firewall, no anti-virus, or no anti-malware period. you sir are a hacker's wet dream. even when surfing to a legitimate site you can be infected, or one of your friends get infected and the virus gets attached to an email they send you. oh and how do you know you haven't been infected with nothing to scan to detect threats, you don't. and when you do get one hope it is only a nuisance virus and not one that could destroy your beloved computer from the inside out.and yes better security is always better."
"fyp.i'd be interested to hear some statistics from ccp about the number of failed login attempts per account per day. i.e.: the number of brute-force attempts by people trying to guess bad passwords."
"supporting more account security!"
"whats next rl money for special items? no thanks!"
"when i read this :interviewi can no longer ignore this thread .supported ."
"we already have real money trading, which gives an advantage to those with more disposable income..."
"fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu !!!!"
"i for one am looking forward to see $25 ghost ponies available"
"i support anything against ccp as they are killing this game.i also vote to stop ccp from ****ering around on tweeter more than they answer petitions."
"so all of us that had to use the old system are just screwed ? we all lost a ton of skillpoints because we had to wait . and that said why aim to be like world of warcraft wich has no gameplay left .. you just sit there swining your credit card and then its all automated .. skillpoints learning and remaps are what makes eve what eve is .. change it and the whole point of eve is gone! eve shop 1.000.000 skillspoints 9.99$5.000.000 skillpoints 25.99 $ < limited offernew costumers recives a free titan! .. thats eve 2011 for ya"
"a very big no to plex for neural remap!"
"in my opinion this detracts from the skill in planning ahead (effectively a dumbing down of the game). you can simply pay money to better advance, rather than having to think and plan your remap.from a rp perspective. the pilots license extension is a in-game role play item to represent a subscription, why would this be exchangeable for a neutral remap? if we have to have this \"feature\" shouldnt it at least be for isk, like everything else (plex is not currency). this would suggest its more financial decision rather than a feature.relating remaps directly to a plex may lead to a trend where it's the norm just to keep up. of course this contributes in terms of revenue, but at what cost?i would be very disappointed to see the game heading it this direction. it would be a very small step to plex for sp"
"i don't give a **** about this tbh.personally i'd have both learning skills and attributes removed."
"can't find a better way to kill eve... please no i totally aggre with this point. at least there would be aqual opportunity between players, not based on irl wealth.if someone then wants to buy a plex for isks in order to get his remap, everybody will be happy ! ccp will get real cash, the plex buyer will get his remap, and a player will get some extra-time.not to mention that it won't increase the isk cost for plex, what would be a bad news for those who can't afford to play eve for real money."
"no thx ccp"
"losing large amounts of players who refuse to be part of this sellout bull**** and then further large amounts who try to continue playing but get fed up being fleeced by ccp just to keep up with everyone else.this is utter bull ccp."
"i support"
"no ccp, bad boy... bad boy... down down... bad bad boy.... you behave or else..."
"bad idea, there's already enough stuff you can buy with real life cash in eve either legally or not, don't make skill training speed one of them everyone makes mistakes, good thing about eve is they're not permanent, if you genuinely screw up your attributes and gve yourself huge charisma then train leadership and social skills for a year"
"please don't do this. would be the first step in the very wrong direction."
"no no no a thousand times no!!!! this shouldnt happen, dont be even ****ter than u already are ccp!!!! stop thinking of new crap to fill the game with, and fix the stuff u already have!!!!"
"supported"
"bff? fooooooooooooooools"
"there is nothing wrong with dinosaurs - eve should at least keep the kool ones. limited remap is one of them."
"micro transactions are bad for the game, and fly in the face of how this game is designed.plex remaps are just the start of what will end up a drop off into micro transactions and having to pay $500/y to buy your way into sp, ships, and more.every game company says that the items wont have an advantage in game, but if they have no game advantage, then they have no value, people dont pay for things with no value. once ccp figures that out they will sell something that does have value, and people who buy it will have an advantage over those that do not."
"this is a really bad idea, would just wreck eve for me, seriously, dont do it"
"no! why conform to other business practices? ccp has always been exclusive in their own design. and the hard-core player base has been their ticket to success.hell no to the plex exchange!"
"/signed"
"i am against this as well and especially the way ccp went about it. have you guys got new management or something cause you seem to be going away from your core principles and into the relm of lets make as much money for shareholders as possible relm instead of just being happy making a profit. this is just a way for you generate more revenue. a majority of the older members dont want it and i dont think it would just stop at this once you start im sure it will get more and more."
"oh my god... the idiocy..."
"this is just a bad idea all around the game has good points and bad points, but this will ruin the game if its put into practice by giving a clear advantage to those with a greater sum of cash at their disposal. the game will basically become one of those free to play games that are pointless in playing unless you buy stuff from the item store."
"bit late now bro. you should have voted when it might have done some good."
"looks like a dark dangerous road if they impliment this"
"please ccp, this is really lame, you're going the same way as lotro, lineage and other crappy mmos noone likes to play aanymore after a few months. no sp advantages through remaps for cash."
"ccp you must be jokingits problematic enough with the plexes that destroy the gamestop now iceworld"
"well, the game is ready bored me with all those lags and glitches, the things r only keep me here its a spaceships and skills that still need to train, so i will not cry about, but will definetely \"reprocess my chars to a biomass\"otherwords - wtf ccp!"
"please, don't do this. this is e the first step in the wrong direction"
"totally against that ccp idea."
"enough with this train of thought plex is for game play only and u make enough thru plexes and regular subscriptions already.iknow as i pay for alot of plexes myself lol.dont do it!!!"
"wth 100% support against ccp for this one"
"guys, when u reply to the topic, there option - checkbox \"support this topic: [ ]check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\""
"great so those of us that have played for years we get what ?? a new car or maybe a titan ingame ??? get a grip ccp but hey you just go ahead with that dumb ass idea i heard guildwars 2 comes out soon then i can throw this \"used to be fun\" game in the trasher."
"no!"
"no."
"i agree with this guy.. if you don't like it just don't buy it. whats wrong with a little competition anyway? it's not as if they are recieving a free titan with every remap.. they are training their skills a bit faster.. shaving a few days.. woopty doo, i was too busy with a small thing called life to care. comon guys grow up a bit, most of you just sound petty.."
"i agree with not allowing this... if ccp allows this it won't take long before they start selling \"magical 1m sp plex\". this is a direct step in turning good game in a piece of s... (you know what...)no from me, no remap for plexes."
"no, just no ccp."
"omg no!!!!"
"n after that there the buy a federation mega for 29.99$ or buy all uniquely rare bs for only 99.99$na thanks. ccp, stupid idea. 90% of the noobs will still leave after understanding the complexity round here. wrong kinda client for the product.and dont you ever dare to change that."
"remap for plex is the first step to sp for plex and other stuff -.-so against it."
"wow goes to space?"
"this has to be, by far, the dumbest idea ccp has ever had. all this will do is allow give people an undue advantage over other players that can't afford to pay to remap their character(s) every month."
"do not agree. eve is a harsh environment and actions and mistakes have huge consequences. decisions matter. don't take that away.you want new players to stay? combine this game with halo... let us land on planets, ride different vehicles on planets, allow frigs and destroyers to fight in the atmosphere and bomb facilities there, bring ambulation in stations, bring more places where people can interact/produce/fight and you will be on the right track to have a game that will suit many playing styles and personalities... will keep people engaged, as knowing they are playing the best game ever, and that anyone new will have to pay the same price to obtain the experience required to survive..."
"i can say this is a real crappy idea imho.. and yes i do buy the occasional plex for isk ... but to remap... nooooooooowhy ccp why"
"this........"
"wtf ccp? greed. are you proud of what you have built? implement this and watch you fall into the shameless depths of other mediocore mmorpg's fuuu and your greed."
"nothing makes this worthwhile. the ability to mitigate consequence's of one's actions is not a part of eve."
"i say no to this!!ccp, please don't go down this road!"
"this is a \"no-no\"!"
"truely dumb ideawhy the hell should people with nice wallets in rl be able to buy advancement time to reign in the greed ccp bad enough being buying supercaps via plex without this **** as well."
"please ccp...do not fail us! :("
"plex are fine as they are, don't ruin it. too many publishers start with micro-transactions and it just goes out of control. next thing you know the game is free to play as a graphic chat room, but anything else you want to do will cost 99 cents a pop. don't even start down that path ccp."
"don't start pandering to the wrong crowd. ****ing off the dedicated fan base in favor of the noob horde will be a mistake. i love eve because it is a hard game. i enjoy the fact that a lot of people get ****ed off and quit, because for the most part the people that stay are good gamers. i enjoy playing with other people who can think and learn to consider their actions and continue on past costly mistakes."
"support."
"wtf ccp?"
"guys, profit > everything elseno omfg.i don't know why u r wasting time at ccp with this plex for remap thingie. u should just go selling million sps for plex instantly. way better profit."
"srsly noi got no problem with extra remaps but i don't want micropayments in eve."
"do not like."
"my alt doesnt like it either."
"we don't want it !"
"supportedi hate the games with shops many of them don't last 2 years."
"one of ccps worst ideas yet. and that is saying a lot."
":("
"soo, if and when we can buy neural remap's, then where's my ability to change my ingame name?untill i see that ability, i strongly disapprove."
"don't turn eve into yet another pay for everything extra game."
"if ccp does this, they will lose something every other mmmorpg has, their integrity."
"and i was flammed when i said that this would/can happen"
"big companies, corperations, and kingdoms has died up through time when the greed by these became to big, its workers or its people turned against it/them. the same story happens here.we players that have used loooong time to train our char to its skill level. can by this get overrun by rookies with monster size skills..... ccp u play with fire and may front the risk that a lot of old players will turn the back on u..... sorry to say, so i hope u reconsider what u are about to do peter62"
"wtf ccp?"
"wtf ccp?"
"signed."
"no, this is not a vanity item, this is a skillpoint advantage!"
"supported. cash from out of game for plexes is enough. no more."
"am i late?no to microtransactions, so no to plex for remaps, which is just the beginning of a dirty road.obsta principiis!"
"this would clearing be a disadvantage to many people what work hard for your game due to the fact i screwed over my attribute points and would love more sp this is the wrong i repeat wrong! way going about it. your game is benefitting from players loving to train at will while at school, vacation, and work. if youre making this game that people can just pay for the sp point i would seriously quit and dont look back. this idea is going to kill your profit as a wise man once told me \"stop being greedy\" i will not sit by and watch ccp kill a game i been playing for 5years for some extra profit. i say there should be a poll. players have rights to the game were playing as i understand eve-online give players the right to speak their mind all the time this is a crucial time for the game developer open there eyes and listen to the public sadly if this doesnt happen eve will die very fast. i give this decision 4 thumbs down yes, i can do that im a alien after all. i do not support this idea at all and ccp will lose a 5yr veteran player"
"i think, i will quit eve too, if ccp decides to do this.even if its only new clothes for plex (when incarna is coming) or anything like that. as soon as this is possible, its just a small step further to special items for money.everything, that gives an advantage to everyone not paying extra money, is bull****."
"we are the box, you just a handful of sand."
"quit lying ccp.c."
"please no..."
"why are u so upset with this ? there are such things in the game already and that is called attrib implants. are u not complaining about those too ?"
"ccp, stop ignoring your playerbase..."
"noooo... do net let it happen"
"im disgusted with you ccp! this isn't world of tanks its a proper mmo! (or so i thought!)"
"i wish that when ccp actually implements this feature,at least 50% of the current paying accounts would just cancel payments...seriously f'ing wish that!"
"/signed"
"wtf should ppl get that sort of advantage just because they have more money or mummy dont mind the credit card being used .... the fact that u can get extra isk from selling plex's is enough ....."
"i'll quite if this happens. supported"
"i think not."
"i do not want this game to be like those free internet mmo's where you can buy your way to the top supported"
"not supporting.ccp has too many stupid things to fix... too many dumb ideas to patch.they don't have time to pick up yet an another project as it is.yes... great app... but with iclone bringing up new features and ideas... in-spite of it being a little slow to load (not sure of iphone4) i'm not convinced its even worth the effort.reading the blog and between the lines its quite obvious they gave up on the project anyway.... the capsuler app is lacking in many areas... it could do so much more.just ain't worth the trouble.sorry.... but i'm not going to bother lifting a finger here. not even worth spending money on it in all honesty.ps: i'm being sincere here.... there are a lot of good people who put a lot more effort and time into their projects for things far more complicated than capsuler... all i see here is the need for greed...rightfully so but even then... someone else will come along and do there own thing... and we geeks like cheap/free stuff... mostly free stuff. the app store's biggest asset is just that... there is always an another app to pick from... while there isn't much for eve... i'm sure it will come in time. biggest opposition... a company that doesn't really care about quality... only new shiny objects. namely... ccp."
"if capsuleer were to be relaunched as a for-fee app, we'd see just how much people value it.it's a beautifully crafted program, it deserves to be sold through the app store for at least $us5."
"@drake: you fail to realize capsuleer is not developed by ccp employees.i agree it is a shame to see this go. particularly after ccp lead its developers on for so long with false hope."
"while i don't like capsuleer app going, i don;'t think it is ccp's job really"
"2 guys make a free eve app for iphone. they read on the news about <insert random dumb app> making zillions on appstore, and suddenly want to cash in on it. i totally didn't see this one coming. also, opensource wins. and i'm sure there'll be another app, just like this one a couple months later.edit: continue the discussion at this thread as per ccp."
"wts reading and comprehension.derp derp.i never said it was written by ccp you noob. sheesh. emo much?"
"ya know, i've read through nearly the whole thread of t'amber's proposal and of course, these comments, and i still cannot fathom the resistance nearing outright fear of something as minor as this. the overwhelming argument - what will the evil ccp do next to get our money through the use of the almighty plex - borders on hysteria. some of the comments, especially in this thread, are downright disgraceful for a supposed mature community. if you don't support it, say so and state your reason(s), but being sarcastic and less than civil is not warranted and borders on childish, close-minded, self-indulging behavior. i and quite a few others commented in the 'no...' proposal about our dissension to that view but our comments were civil. i honestly did not expect an overwhelming show of support here because everyone seems to have jumped on the fear bandwagon that this is just the precursor to a cash shop without truly evaluating the proposed feature from both sides of the fence, but i did expect the responses - pro or con - to be respectful. on one other point - that of this feature side-stepping a game mechanic - is not the buying of ready-made characters side-stepping established game mechanics? in that case, the side-stepping is far and away the worse of the two. by buying a character already trained, you bypass all of the time training, the acquiring of skill books either through the market or by salvaging, as well as the experience gained from doing so while playing the game, plus you acquire whatever is agreed upon in that character's hangars. has the purchasing of characters ruined the game? has it had a major impact on gameplay for everyone else? no. of course not because relatively few when considering the whole of the player base actually makes use of that feature. my guess is that the proposed use of plex for neural remapping will have similar usage for the simple reason that it will not be cost effective. i would venture a guess that the majority who would use it by all likelihood would do so maybe two to four times a year at most, and those would be the few. game-breaker? i think not. c'mon folks. take a deep breath, put away the cash shop demon fear for a moment, and be rational. this feature would not be the end of eve as we know it, but to assuage a few of the arguments, perhaps a cap on usage would be in order, say a limit of three or four uses a year per character, or whatever."
"to expect all replies to be civil on the internet is like expecting a reach around while being bum****d in texas.there is no total sp increase in game when a character is traded and only the owner has changed, where as with this new feature there would be an overall increase in sp (although i doubt that it will be much). the only issue i think there is with character trading is that post-plex there isn't an equal oppurtunity for people to do so, where as before hand it was fair. while i think this topic is relevant to the conversation, for me this is a minor issue and its more the plex mechanic that causes problems. if a character is going to be ingame, i don't personally care who owns it - the actual character itself had the same chances to develop as mine did - and unless its deleted or unsubbed its going to be ingame anyway. why does this feature use plex and not an existing reward or trade system from ingame? i don't see why it couldn't be tied to a lp reward or somesuch (which would also remove the benefit people have with buying isk with plex). this along with the fact that ccp specifically stated that there would be no microtransactions gives rise to peoples fear, although i agree that the actual use of this feature could be low and some people are over reacting - but a line must be drawn somewhere.saying all that, i don't think there should be an increase in remapping at all we already have enough of them, and this is one of my main reasons i am against this feature.think about your training plan and what you want to do in gameplan aheaddon't touch your remaps when you are drunk, tripping or wastedsuffer the consequences for failing to do any of the above, this is eve grow some balls and suck it upon another note, great layout of your proposal and i wish everyone else posted their proposals like this.-t'amber"
"take a good long look at how many people support this so called stupid idea and how many are opposed to this idea.yeah... waste of time to even bother asking.f### no.de and company are only scratching the surface here.keep on coming up with excuses to support this ludicrous idea.... not going to win any points with that mob standing over there."
"why once a year? why not make it a one time event, once every two years, once every five years? this is not wow or korean! why not once a day?and why is neural remapping once a year free?if they're gonna do it, then do it through game mechanics, not plex. and then make sure there's a cost associated neural remaps appropriate to the advantage of doing it."
"it should be done through game mechanics.... not through what size wallet you have outside the gameits bad enough as it is"
"it appears as though the two proposals (against and for) are a moot point for the moment and we will just have to wait to see how it actually does affect the game. eurogamer's robert purchese posted an interview with ccp's eve creative director, torfi frans olafsson. on page 3 of the interview is the following question & answer:even though i am for this feature, as i stated in a comment in the 'no...' proposal, i am not in favor of a cash shop in eve. this statement by olafsson leaves a sour taste in my mouth as it appears as though there is poison mixed in with the honey."
"not supported."
"supported. helpful for traders, among others."
"now that t3 ships are starting to show up, i feel a t3 exhumer should be brought to the table. i think it would be a nice fit and work out well for both sides. it would add new subsystems, skills, and a new ship. possibly new harvesters as well. it could either be setup with subsystems for either ice or ore depending on which subsystems you choose, but not for both. so you would still need to have 2 t3 exhumers, 1 for ice and 1 for ore. would need the skills advanced spaceship command iii, exhumers v, mining barge v, spaceship command v, astrogeology v, astrogeology upgrades i or whatever, industry v, science v, mining v, and the new spaceship command skill for t3 exhumer (exhumer plus), plus the subsystem skills. maybe 3 highs, 4 mids, 3 lows. 5 subsystem slots and maybe 3 rig slots. could even add a new hardwire implant for all subsystems to increase sales there as well. a few names i've thought of could be; the core......the oreon......the tria......feel free to add something or suggest other names. thanks"
"supported.. we can always use more ships :-)"
"i think we just found a good idea."
"supported, so long as the theoretical peak mining rate is however slightly less than the hulk."
"nice one. would be nice to have a boat that has at least some sort of chance to survive if some tries to tackle it."
"out of curiosity, why?"
"i've heard ccp's official stance on mining ships was, they don't want anything to out-mine the hulk.which is also why they haven't come out with anything else weaker than the hulk.anyone who wants to make a profession out of mining, will train for the hulk.and anyone who doesn't want to really make a profession out of it, won't bother to train for anything lesser \"just because\".as for using a t3 to mine... that's a lot of wasted effort training, to stare at rocks all day.hence why all the prereqs seem to focus on being combat ready, and why all the subs are focused around combat."
"lol still supported.google finds everything though."
"while i like the idea of renting billboard space, i think people will still use cans.can names appear on the overview. billboard messages wouldn't (unless there's a significant change). how many people have the actual billboards on their overview settings, let alone read them?"
"supported."
"supportedalthough some of his posts are amusing to say the least.expect for the caps."
"this suggestion is very simple and does not require a lot of explanation. what i suggest is that a new alternative is added to bookmarks in the right-click menu which you get in space: \"delete bookmark\".if you think too many mistakes will occur because of this then add a control question which asks if you really want to go through with this.simple as that.cheers"
"good idea - supported"
"what's wrong with opening people and places, and deleting it from there?\"i have too many bookmarks\"so go make folders, and organize.then you don't have to scroll through hundreds of bms to find that one single deep safe. make a folder called deep safe, and then you only have to scroll through those."
"oh there is nothing wrong with opening people and places, i'm merely saying it could be made a lot easier without actually giving any further advantages in the game itself."
"i don't know...taking a look at the other rclick menu arrangements, it would probably read:[warp to 0m][warp to...][warp squad to 0m][delete bookmark][warp squad to...]oh, and the patch that adds this function would also ninja buff your mouse response time, so you're more likely to overclick.=)"
"ninja buff and overclick? no idea what you just said."
"well, if you have close to fifty jump bridges bookmarked, about double that number poses, and i don't even want to count all the tacticals across two or three regions - it gets a bit messy no matter how you organize it. and no, creating 30 folders is not the solution either. sub-folders would make organization easier.op: sure, why not. low-hanging fruit they call it."
"yup."
"supported."
"definitely, and please ccp don't place it right under warp to."
"lol'd when i read the op. lol'd again reading it for a second time as i wrote the above"
"my carebear lost 2 tengus in a row to suicide, and they're both t2 fitted and carrying only ammo. apparently they don't check contents anymore, just jump on the gank whenever they can. lost the 2nd one before the subsystem sp loss from 1st gank even finished training back up. used to think suicide ganking as part of the game, but recently this \"game mechanics\" is really coming apart at the seams. there are sometimes smack in local, not between ganker and ganked, but different groups of gankers fighting over a spot."
"wrong wrong wrong.....a) already pretty high for poddings i had a 12% drop after a podkill on an alt the other day.b) noc) umm nod) lul wut?sorry but this seems completly rubbish plus u contradict yourself majorly. \"its pvp game but i want it you cant pk in areas???\"you want concord to just like \"poof\" appear as soon as someone opens fire? this aint harry potter where u can just appear, concord has to warp in etc, and tbh its fast enough (they can detect an illegal activity an be on scene in like 10seconds??)"
"it only takes one volley. doesn't matter how fast concord shows up.you missed the problem. consider this: out in lowsec or null, a bs doesn't stand a chance against a t3 cruiser. but in concordland the reverse is true, because the t3 isn't allowed to defend itself. by the time the volley came, it's too late. ganker enjoys concord protection, that's why they are able to do what they do. it used to be the case where you can avoid suicide gank by not carrying valuables, but ppl realized how easy t3s are to gank, and pulls the trigger without waiting to check contents. can't fight it, can't avoid it."
"ofc it can defend itself, if u gonna fly an expensive ship take some precautions, have hardners on at all times etc, dont ap. get a scout if u have to, fit a cloaky warp if needed.and yea if u survive initial volley gtfo or shoot back."
"-tengu won't survive.-you put a cloak on mission boat in highsec?-scout in highsec? ppl are everywhere. you're going to check background of everyone you see?problem: concord protect gankers. you see them, but can't hit them until it's too late. they only "
"instead of crying about it (which only encourages them) set up an anti-gank fleet, with good bait and a lot of friends to finish off what they start.the problem with a lot of carebears is that they don't have friends. this is a game about friends. if you want to mish in an npc corp all by yourself don't expect to survive encounters with people who (gasp) fly in gangs and have backup.as for t3 being easy to gank: i don't get it. my prote has 7 lows slots. that's a lot of warp stabs....or plates. in nul sec, there's the interdiction nullifier. and my tengu-flying pals can tank more than i can. maybe the problem is with your fit. t2 on a t3 ship? go faction or officer. t3 is not the place to cut costs."
"partially supported.the main issue with the current sov system is that it's very much all or nothing. invaders must win fights consistantly to take a system. if the defenders win even once, the attack is stopped and must begin again.sov warfare needs to be a more granular affair, with lots of smaller battles affecting the overall outcome and allowing an attacker to weaken a defender with persistance rather than a handful of node-breaking fights.so rather than tie cost to the ownership of nearby systems, why not tie defender bonuses to it? measure sov in a system on a points scale of 1 to 100. claiming nearby systems and the entire constellation allows the owner to build up points at a faster rate, unlocking new upgrades like cyno beacons at certain points levels.conversely, losing sov to a hostile invasion will cause your points total to drop in nearby systems and slow down recovery. now defenders have an incentive to claim these 'worthless' systems as they provide a buffer to more valuable ones. attackers have a reason to invade them and start smaller fights to chip away at an overall goal.edit: this also provides a way to besiege a region. if the defender wants to sit under their cynojammer, eventually the attacker will take all adjacent systems and cause enough damage to sov points to disable that jammer upgrade."
"i am not sure how long did it take you to make this up, but you certainly managed to do a way, way better job that all of ccp combined over the 7 or how many years we have sov."
"while your idea is certainly better than the current system, i want to argue for the costs element. a lot of what you're suggesting wouldn't be cared about by entities that large supercapital fleets or entities that have renters. by tying constellation to costs, you hit large entities where it matters as well as smaller entities, whereas your idea would only be cared about by smaller entities that have little space. by tying to cost, it means that those entities flush with supercaps and titans will still want the surrounding space, to keep spaceholding costs down. it means that alliances are less likely to want to give space to \"bloc\" entities for jump bridges, as it would increase the cost of their surrounding systems to have one system in the middle of a constellation used by an outside entity. it means alliances that rent have to figure out a new model rather than just taking a region's stations and then renting out the region as costs will be far too high. and it gives smaller entities the ability to hurt larger ones. if you tie it to defensive bonuses, then it's still a situation where the superbloc only needs to show up for station defenses with a large blob, rather than wittling them down financially."
"another argument: did u even take any measures to protect yourself?the carebears that get ganked don't and u wonder why no one likes or respects them, especially when they refuse to learn from their mistakes and instead, whine like u do."
"that's not true at all. how do you know that? did you ever see all of these suicide ganks?try to operate an industrial ships. heavy, slow and nearly unarmed ships versus a gank of destroyers. if you are the primary target of a fast agile ship with a pilot that targets you in less than 2 seconds you have no chance. you are warpscrambled and you are not going to any place. do you ever know how much time do you need with an exhumer to warp out even if you are aligned? you have very little chance of survival. yes you can set bad standing the next time with that corp and yes, you can just stay docked in the station the next time you see this guys on the local. waw that's really funny. what kind of meassures you prupouse? have a full army of combat ships with you at the same time you are mining? sure you'll find a lot of people willing for doing that! and even with that army may be the gank will destroy one of theses mining ships. concord react time is less than a minute. an \"estrategic cruiser hunter\" kills these ships in less than a minute. and the fit of those ships are nice for tanking. (u just need to see the killmails)what i'm trying to explain is that yes, of course, you can avoid being a \"attractive target\" employing unspensive craps ships with crap cargo. but that's funny? are you really safe even flying craps versus suiciders that just want to \"hear your cries\"?i'm just asking for increased punishment for concordnuked! if concord acts is for something, right?may be you just want concord to disappear from the game and this just become an outlaw place where every one can kill anyone. but i think many people do not like that kind of gaming. i do not think op petition is versus eve philosofy. why to declare a war if it's far more ease (and unspensive) to suicide yourself with little or even no warning (if you are at war you can see a enemy pilot in the local), if i must think of every neutral pilots in empire like hostile i do not think no one will ever dock out from the station. honestly i really think suicide ganks are exploits. cheaper than wars. unnoticed till you get target (too late then) an too ease to repaing the sec status and isk lost! it's even a way to make ease isks..."
"i have a feeling your trying to make a point but im not sure what"
"i don't need to. the mere fact that they were chosen to be blown up and it succeeded means they did something wrong. therfore, the better questions would be \"how do you know that? did you ever see all of these suicide ganks?\" i didn't think so... 1. i have flown industrial ships but thx for assuming. never been suicide ganked once, even in a t1 industrial. know why? i don't load up on billions worth of cargo in it. try to do that sometime instead of wanting your hand held.2. any \"fast agile\" ship trying to tackle u would get insta-popped by the gate guns. and if u're not at a gate or station...3. don't fly what u can't afford to lose. no one's forcing u to mine with an exhumer or using squishy paper haulers and having to squeeze all your assets into it. 1. yes, it's called protecting yourself, something that's apparently too much for u to comprehend/handle.2. a isk saved is an isk earned, namely the isk u saved from not losing another exhumer like an idiot. 1. that could work for low sec so it's an option. might wanna give that a try instead of whining some more.2. or u can stick with a t1 barge and lose nothing so u're not worth ganking.care to link these supposed killmails where they use t3s to suicide gank? and i do mean \"suicide ganked\", not \"mine like an idiot during war time\".yes u r. the ppl here aren't bull****ting u and if u don't believe us, try it. what's the worst that can happen? u lose nothing but your ego? ppl don't get killed without a reason so stop smacking/crying in local like a moron if u can't handle the consequences. and if that's too much for u, then u're playing the wrong game. thx for assuming again but i don't contribute to the problem by farming low sec into extinction, nor would i want to turn high sec into low sec because it wouldn't work. the system's fine as it is, if anything, too much in favor of miners. and fyi, concord is only there to prevent high sec from becoming low sec. no more, no less."
"1. war dec: 2 mil flat fee per week against a corp, no sec loss at all. suicide gank: 2 mil+ isk lost every single attempt due to automatic ship loss, sec loss every single attempt, kill rights granted to victim upon destruction that last up to 4 war dec periods. obviously, u didn't know something as simple as that and u wonder why no one likes or respects carebears like u. 2. u'll never be in complete safety, even in high sec unless u're docked, so if u're gonna be that paranoid instead of learning how to protect yourself, it's your loss and u're only griefing yourself. \"oh no! gimme a warning before it happens so i don't have to deal with risk for my rewards!\" u don't see everyone else in local getting blown up left and right so get over it.3. low sec pirates and 0.0 players have mining alts that stay in npc corps all the time so they can't be war decced. where's the risk for them when they're hiding behind their alts, avoiding the tables being turned on them? oh that's right, there isn't any.1. if it was an exploit, ccp would've removed suicide ganking altogether a long time ago instead of just nerfing it little by little. so think again.2. refer to the top of the post.3. try and gain just 1.00 sec and see how long it takes u. go ahead. i guarantee u it'll take a lot more time and effort than u would've exerted by switching to a mining barge or lightening your cargo and taking a few extra trips in a tanked industrial. 4. then again, if u wanna continue acting stupid and not learn from your mistakes, then u deserve to get farmed for isk."
"anything new on this topic?"
"agree with op."
"haven't really read the thread so i dunno how you're preventing me from hunting myself with my alt. i guess the random pool could be much larger if bounties actually worked so it might work.supporting anyway, because bounties need help. this would definitely do better than the current system."
"i'm not sure that the instantly proposed bounty system would be superior to the well thought out system already proposed by dierdre vraal some years ago, but i would vehemently support either in place of the existing bounty system. moreover, i believe the bounty system resolves a gross inequity of balance between pirates and nonpirates, pvpers and nonpvpers, older characters and newer characters, etc.and if you want to throw this in, i personally find the motif to be more realistic. rampant piracy without _substantial_ consequence in highsec doesn't sit with my suspension of disbelief; a bounty system directly addressees that without removing the very cool risk of player piracy from the game. the skilled pirates who are more than just pathetic griefing bullies looking for level 1 mission but level 4 payout easy money and performance-trolling lawls will still find a way to profit and plague the spacelanes."
"i mostly support this. although i never thought to put the whole system in the \"agent->mission\" format you have here, most of these ideas are similar to what i would want in a future bounty system.it would indeed take a lot of tweaking to get it right, but anything that makes bounty hunting look more worthwhile is good in my book."
"maybe an idea from someone tired to read local chan...this chan is very important for keeping an eye on who entered or who left the system, so impossible to close it, but the trolls get more outnumbered as the number of players is growing.i tried to reduce at max the text windows, but it's still not suitable, i would prefer to not feel negative waves from antepubert teenagers that have invaded the game all the day, if possible. (by the way, reptilians won't get any food ^^ private joke sorry)i tried to start blocking every player that entered local chan, it's quite boring after some times.so please, majesty, could you find a way for us to choose if we want to see the text in chan or not ?thank you."
"first"
"you can just slide it off-screen partially (again, now that that bug has been fixed) so you only see the names. couple that with \"blink off\" and you have your intel listing without distracting claptrap."
"as above: turn blink off, move the chat part of the window off-screen. saves real estate while still serving as an omniscient intel tool."
"umm - not liking this at all...also - you haven't explained the idea very well (i.e. what you want it to achieve in the game (role) or any other information such as skills, limitations etc...)"
"or...make the covops pilot the fc.then when he probes down a sig, he can immediately gang warp everyone else."
"im fairly sure you can achieve all of that by having a cloaking probing t3 on grid with you.drop probes, cloak, scan ship, fleet warp to ship."
"i think he's also proposing a new ability for the scan probes of fleetmates to be slaved to the control of a single fleet member. that is, 5 fleetmates drop 6 probes each, and one person in the fleet will have the ability to control all 30 probes.either that, or when someone in the fleet scans down something, someone else in the same fleet automatically gets the scan result.peter quixote isn't being very clear."
"wtf ccp!!! no no no >>>"
"supported"
"i have no idea what is going on here. i'm going to lock this."
"1) all the whining about a counter to cloaks. no one realizes that cloaks are a counter... to probes.as i've said for -every other- afk cloak thread. cloaks aren't the problem, they are working as intended.the problem is players going afk all day long.there is nothing in eve that requires your presence, but not player interaction.if a cloaked spy is watching a gathering fleet, they'll be chatting back to friendlies. that alone signifies they are not \"away from keyboard\". those guys are completely legit.if a cloaked ship is parked in a deep safe, while the player has gone off to their day job for hours... those are the problems.add an afk timer like most games have, and you'll get rid of the scary boogeyman whose face plagues your local.2) as for reusing the pos system scanner.i'd support using that if:- it takes 1 hour to scan the system- it only gets you onto the same grid as the cloaked ship- it relies on the hunters using one of these to find the ship after that."
"not supported."
"if they're somehow griefing u by not doing anything, did u ever try ignoring them? it's not like they're smacking in local and really griefing the hell out of everyone..."
"doomsday using t3 subsystem"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i run the mac client and because of tyrannis 1.1, whenever i turn on my audio my game crashes at the peak of that acceleration gate song. as a result of this i lost a rather expensive paladin and my petition was turned down even when i offered up video evidence to prove it. ccp- get your **** together..."
"can i have your stuff?"
"bump. for persistence warrants non-futile existence."
"why not post a reason so that he has a chance to adress your concerns?-t'amber"
"since you asked nicely because he freely admits he knows jack **** about the game or its mechanics. i prefer people who have input, however small it may be, into things that may one day affect my game play to at least have some idea of what theyre talking about. passion alone is not something i would consider useful in a candidate.its the main reason i've never put myself forward as a csm candidate, because i feel i dont know enough about the game."
"what i said is that i don't know **** about coding or development, i know plenty about eve mechanics."
"someone is already campaigning for the next csm???!!!simply wow,issler"
"i've never really cared to debate the \"remove local\" agenda, but this has me curious. exactly how do you figure this change will give your desired outcomes?not the obvious ones like \"more dangerous,\" and \"more cloaky,\" but this would somehow encourage small gang combat? even if you look to wormholes as an example, small gang combat is there simply due to mass restrictions, not because local is delayed."
"simply because if people don't know u there they can't call the \"blob\", giving you time to do some damage and escape. guerrilla warfare my friend"
"nice introduction.and ambitious agenda.since you've been playing since beta 2002 you must have some idea/ahnung about ccp, how they do things, company culture etc.what is your strategy exactly to get ccp to do those things you propose?"
"you would do the same if you hadn't the guaranteed votes from some major alliance, starting soon gives me more time to divulge my ideas, perhaps giving me a fighting chance."
"my strategy is quite simple. remind them of the essence behind eve. hell... i will even take my 2003 game box to iceland and read it to them out loud. remind ccp that, todays achievements , are own to what they once were..."
"oh look...in addition to the most ridiculous patch issued since the boot.ini fiasco....ccp in a positive move is looking to release....dum dum te dum (drumroll)new facesbecause looking good in a broken game is where its at. go ccp and csm. yeah."
"yes because its totaly the csms fault that ccp is starting rollout on a feature theyve been working on for over three years. idiot.oh and by the way the only improvement i believe black ops need is an increase in their fuel bay size, other than that theyre fine as long as you use your brain when deploying them. i dont think you will ever completely eliminate the need for a hauler to carry fuel and ammo but a increase in fuel storage might be useful even if just to increase their unsupported travel range."
"an idea:each pirate that law enforcers kill adds to some type of concord bounty.each pilot that pirates kill adds to some type of pirate npc corp reward.(reward values are calculated by ship value/moddules destroyed/podkill implants to avoid exploits)"
"and this prevents alt based exploitation of the bounty system how exactly??"
"the rewards cannot be higher than the actual player isk loss"
"i would like to open the floor for a discussion of the collision mechanics used in eve online. primarily i would like to point out the fact that a number of ships and other objects in the game seem to have collision boxes that are broken. the intent of this thread is to both discuss the issue regarding collision detection, as well as to collect a list of structures, vessels and objects that do not seem to be colliding correctly with other bodies.it is also important that i state that this thread is not about demanding perfect collision boxes that match the surfaces of ships and such exactly. instead, i am hopping to gain support for a request that the collision boxes be fixed such that ships no longer may fly through one another, or so that ships in a mission may no longer become stuck inside of a \"large collidable structure.\"i intend to collect a list of as many broken objects as possible, however any assistance that may be given by other capsuleers in locating errors would be greatly appreciated.thank you very much for your time. fly safe!~robert catachan"
"broken shipshyperion: bow section forward of the engines does not detect collisions at all.broken structuresin missionsangel extravaganza: in the first pocket the large station has a collision box which seems to extend randomly throughout the inside of the actual model's surface.infiltrated outposts: in the first pocket, the large drone hive has a collision box that can make approaching the acceleration gate nearly impossible. as a result of this over sized collision box, there are only a few paths by which a player's ship may approach the gate. this box needs to be fixed to open up the approach paths to this gate.in normal spaceabandoned outposts seem to generally permit ships to pass through them with out any collision detection what so ever.stations generally seem to have collision boxes that are much larger than the actual station, resulting in occasional difficulties aligning in ships that are very slow to accelerate.the caldari titan in orbit around caldari prime has a collision box that seems to extend many kilometers beyond the surface of the vessel. the result of this is that ships are unable to approach it at all. i do not know if player owned titans have the same issue, if some one could confirm whether or not they do, it would be appreciated."
"most of the destroyed station wrecks in deadspace areas are completely fly-through. while flying through the inside of one really adds a sense of scale and immersion, flying out through a solid wall completely breaks it.in gurista sanctums (not sure about other factions) and many sleeper sites, it is possible for your ship to partially fly into the central structure and become stuck there for a while.gallente control towers have very wide collission boxes, especially on the part right below the hydroponic bays on the top; making navigation around them difficult."
"to many pages between page number one and the page this thread is on."
"noterrible idea. games that suck implement free to play models. this game does not suck. just raise the subscription fee or something. if they raise it $1, that's an extra $300k/mo."
"fairly firm no here.not inherently against cash for cosmetic changes (which we already have) or character transfers (also already available) but against most everything else, like name changes and the like. especially against game-altering changes like race changes, sp purchasing, buying additional remaps, etc.is it too late to set up a booth and sell torches and pitchforks?"
"no, hell, no."
"i would cheerfully pay an extra dollar or two per month for each of my 3 accounts, but i'll never pay even a penny for a microtransaction item."
"depends. the plex system by itself is a kind of microtransaction system, but everyone likes it, ccp need to be very caution with this changes, and not giving any visible advantages for the one player over another. it's very easy to cross the invisible line, when money talks."
"no!"
"no."
"no"
"**** ******* ****** no!"
"no"
"no. not even cosmetic."
"right there with you, initially i was thinking microtransactions for incarna hats and shoes would 'okay', sort of, but the confirmation of plex for remaps shuts the door on any 'hope' i retained that it would be limited to silly cosmetic crap no one would need/miss. they easily can and probably will use mt to screw us over on incarna stuff just to cash in on a new player base drawn into the 'immersive' world of eve now with dust514!'.no to mt."
"ccp makes 4.5 mil per month from this game. they should be rolling in dough and have plenty of resources to make this game fantastic. instead, they've released a patch for their patch for their patch. and what, from the user standpoint, did the first patch improve? rockets? hybrids? afs? poses? treaties or sov or mothership balance? no. nothing at all.they're ****ing the money we do give them away on vampires and dust.i support the following transaction:sign a publishing deal with ea for your vampires game to give you some money so you can fix this one before the tailspin becomes irreversible."
"no"
"while the crowd sourcing proposal specifically states \"more\" microstransactions, the evils of plex are offset by the benefits of combating rmt and most are aware of the inherent pitfalls of this mechanic. if you can please edit your comment to include your vote of yes/ no/ cosmetic please, so that i can include you in the count.-t'amber"
"no.or as a wise man once said \"oh hell no!\""
"nein."
"no."
"no"
"no for microtransactions in every game with monthly subscriptions.if they need more cash they may rise up the subscription by 50 cebt or so.it has never ever good for a game to have a item shop for rl cash...overtime more and more *must have* items will be put in to maximize the cash.that is no propehcy but a fact from all the games that have it.and it<U+FFFD>s the only thing that i still in eve and dont play world of tanks, it has rl cash itemshop.if eve has something simlar too that its done for me with the game that i atm anyway not happy with (fixing in 2 years, dust etc cc.)"
"no"
"no. and no i won't be buying virtual clothes.but they will introduce it anyways, because microsoft is selling rc-cars for live avatars and people are actually buying that crap. people are buying and re-buying map packs and are moaning on the live forums if no new stuff is released for a week. i remember the threads in another forum, everybody vowed they'll never ever use ms points for virtual goods. all that is left today is a thread with the latest releases and how to get ms points cheap. a business can't get any closer to making money out of thin air than this. you can't possibly expect ccp to watch from the sideline, not even testing the waters, because it's good for the game. who is the judge of whats good and whats bad anyways. the forums? trying to stop them is just a waste of personal bandwith imo, unsubbing the only message that has any hope of getting through. inb4 interbus hauling service to 0.0 stations. just two plex and you get your bhaalgorn out of enemy hands."
"posting in a thread that won't change anything in ccp's mind also, no"
"aw hell noif i want something in game, i get it with isk, or a careful application of lotsa explosives."
"noi'm pretty new to eve though, but i don't even wanna see dam remap for plex!"
"nothis is obnoxious."
"no godamnit"
"yes if it means ccp can spend the money to change their processes to prevent insanity like allowing the tyrannis 1.1 gui changes through q.a.. that, and the implementation of the first phase of the p.i. changes are as clear a demonstration of a development team producing poor quality deliverables as one can get. if such low quality product is making its way through the game design and development of wod and dust 514, then ccp are truly ****ed. the market will not accept quality that low, and the almost immediate failure of both games will put them out of business permanently. the real issue though isn't the poor quality itself - the issue is what happened to them to allow this to go live?"
"no!"
"no. i just recently uninstalled team fortress 2 (a game i had lots of fun with for more than 3 years) after a real money item store had been introduced by valve. stuff like hats that make the wearer invulnerable to headshots made me feel that all the balance in this game was lost. please, don't let this happen to eve!"
"no !!no problem with increasing mothly fee by 1$/1 (what ever) but do not !! never every !! bring micropayment to eve !!ccp is going to destroy the very best mmorpg in the history of online games !!do not do so ccp plz keep eve as it is ! :("
"if i had to choose then it'd be no, obviously.but i wouldn't really rage if it was put in. all it'd mean is more idiots with ******ed and/or expensive fits floating about in space. it's not like the richer eve players don't make more isk per month than most people couldn't even afford to buy with plex if they saved up their whole lives.as long as microtransactions don't offer anything not also available with isk, i don't see too much of a problem. doesn't really matter if it's sell plex -> buy titan -> hilarious killmail, or if it's buy titan with $$$ -> hilarious killmail. ccp does get more bux in the latter case i guess, which is probably what they would aim for.also, remap for plex just means you can train leadership skills faster."
"no. hell no. **** no."
"no"
"cosmetic only!"
"tbh then you can say that directly buying sp with plexes/real money is a way to counter ebaying of chars. but editted in my vote (cosmetic)."
"no.eve is a great game but what you try to do now is destroying this great game!"
"no.no monthly subsciption fee plus micropayment. it just doesn't mix well."
"no"
"no"
"hell no!even cosmetic stuff is just the first step into it...once they got the fine taste of money, they shure want more of the greens."
"no"
"no microtransactions for anything. we pay for the game already via subscriptions."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic"
"cosmetic..."
"cosmeticstill, ccp. isn't there more important stuff do to?"
"combo : partial \"yes\", partial \"cosmetic only\"so... \"mostly cosmetic\".conditions:1. any and all of those micropayments must be made only via plex in some form (and therefore, indirectly, with variable amounts of isk) - enabling anybody to obtain them without ever spending any rl cash2. most things offered should be cosmetic in nature, but useful practical things can also be offered -- as long as they do not *directly* generate ingame items with similar (and especially not superior) stats compared to existing in-game items, and as long as they do not give the payer any ingame benefits that would be *impossible* to otherwise attain even if time was not a factor"
"no.pretty much the reasons t'amber listed in the op."
"absolutely no!it starts with remap for plex (which is an advantage and not some cosmetical stuff) and ends where?...just no..."
"edit.changed my stance to nowould prefer it if there wasn't any micro transactions. if they are coming tho i hope they are only cosmetic like ship colours and nothing else, don't want to have to go find all my other pc games cause i'm not playing eve any more."
"no!go away with the sucking micropayment crap. i never have played games with this and i will not if ccp introduce it"
"not voting - the vote is biased given the ops discriptions for the votes that are not his."
"no."
"no"
"nonot even cosmetic, you want to change hairstyle or add a tattoo go to the appropriate shop in a station and pay with isk."
"no.over and out."
"no!"
"no thx..."
"no.i would say that this is the thin end of the wedge, but we're already beyond that."
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no."
"no"
"vote cosmetic - but we know it never ends on that."
"no"
"yesi see nothing wrong with buying remaps. heck, people buy plexes for everything.my issue with remaps has always been that 1 year is too long (awaits waves of grandstanding on how noobs should just plan properly.). seriously, i often like to train a block that ideally takes several months on certain attributes, but which never justifies wasting the entire rest of the year. if the rule were 'once every 6 months,' the remap system probably wouldn't even need external micromanagment. in absentia of said 6-months rule, i wholeheartedly support paying a bit extra every now and then to get some better training going."
"no.one of the usps of eve is that every in-game item can be traded and is available for everybody through isk (assuming that seller and buyer agree on the price)."
"no :("
"cosmetic only,i can accept non interfering additions, such as skins for ships, clothing, and stuff in general that has no direct impact. aesthetics can be fun though. otherwise the answer is no. of course these items need to be able to be traded in game as well."
"no"
"you do realise that frequent remaps for everyone mean that stats become irrelevant, right?"
"no <- !!!!seriously, doing that crap will ruin the game, and it will only be a matter of time before eve is turned into some kiddie playground."
"no.and remove plex, gtc sell for isk and caracter trade for isk please."
"no"
"no."
"no.please don't do this ccp.probably every single one of us talked trash about some badly implemented feature before, or some patch, or lag. but we still love the game. that's why we are here, that's why we care."
"no"
"no"
"noi don't like all the plex, isk buy / sell thing overall. microtransactions is too much i want to tollerate in any online game i play. please don't do that. if i look on these comments here - i think it will ruin the game."
"not if ccp caps it. but the option to buy an extra remap a year is something i would certainly welcome."
"no, no thrice no."
"it seems that ccp changed their mind quickly...screenshot from june 2010, credits to dodgypast.linkage"
"nobecause i know the first night i'm on drunk i'll be buying remaps like they were antimatter scosmetics doesn't interest me in the slightest so just no."
"that is assuming everyone has infinite money to give to ccp, which is very unlikely to be the case. if someone wants to hand over hundreds of euros to ccp so they can train at the same speed as me, but in different skill groups, or train 18 days faster than me over a year using an optimised per/int based remap, then i have no problem with them doing so."
"i wonder how long that thread will survive?"
"yesthis game already has microtransactions. might as well keep it going. for the right amount of money i can buy anything i want in eve!"
"no"
"cosmetic only!i support micropayments if they help people to get a pink cnr. i support micropayments to change an avatars haircut or nose. i'm strictly against any micropayments for skillpoints, a higher possible level of a skill, or advanced equipment.if this is implemented in eve, i'll unsuscribe my accounts.i left swg because of the nge, so why should i not leave eve?"
"cosmetic onlyif it sticks to cosmetic stuff, i dont care if other people are wasting money."
"no!"
"no"
"i support making eve free to play and charging extra for incarna and everything related to it. as soon as we get flying in space fixed we can talk about that again (microtransactions for reinforced nodes or bug fixes...)."
"yesif another revenue source will help with back-end improvements and extend the longevity of eve, i am for it."
"yes!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no. for the love of god, no.never."
"no. fixed pricing in eve is evil. let the market decide price for in-game activities."
"no"
"**** no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no no no !"
"i haven't seen anything yet about ccp making eve free to play.i will ask them about it when i get to iceland next week.charging a weekly fee and microtransactions... hmmm-t'amber"
"no, damn no! ccp are you kidding? stop trying to turn eve into wow!"
"no, no, no!"
"no, no, no!"
"no"
"no, no, no!"
"no, no, no!"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"yesmore money for eve means more innovation, better hardware (less lag!)."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"neither have i, but i guess you got my point."
"cosmetic only"
"i would have to go with cosmetic only.theres enough ships,mods,booster,implants etc etc, to screw with the balance of pvp in eve, as a relativly new player its daunting just learning all of the above aspects let alone adding more aspects.it doesnt need anymore, esspecially paid benefits that would ruin the pvp. ppl with more money (irl) gaining advantages over ppl who can only afford the subscription.yeah."
"tf2 just did this. no unfair advantage from buying items = snipers that can't be headshotted, and valve has more credibility than ccp.no micotransactions."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"why am i not surprised that the wormhole exploiting corp support micropayments getting ahead of others by any means necessary ... exploits, real life cash, whatever is all that counts, not player skill or hard work. *wags finger"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nothere is no logical reason for this to be implemented other then bettering ccp's bottom line... for the short-term.i have seen many games fail by adjusting their dynamic to allow players to \"buy\" their place in game. although the claim is to not change the game dynamic, allowing players to adjust their training rate with hard currency is one foot in the door to the brutal whoring-to-death of eve.if you want to make more money then draw in new players, or sell some merch, don't exploit your current players or you will find yourself without any."
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only.if somebody wants to spend money to accessorize their char, that's up to them, but i'm heavily against the idea of rl money to gain further advantages over those people \"just paying the subscription.\""
"hell no"
"no ! - i say. i like eve, as it is (in terms of money). paying one fee and rest of universe is \"in-time\", \"in-game\". plex doesn<U+FFFD>t destroy this feeling for me, but (more) microtransactions for items would do that.portrait changes and stuff like that would be ok for me to do as microtransactions."
"no!the stuff we have now is fine, plex for remap is very not fine. cosmetics...maaaaybe but it doesn't sit well with the game...actually, eve is a subscription based games, your sub should grant you access to everything eve has to offer so nothing in game for micropayments please. no."
"no"
"no!!!"
"no"
"through all the **** for the past 3 1/2 years, i have never even considered quitting this game. microtransactions would become my official protest of eve, microtransactions ruin gaming as a whole.noooooooooooo!"
"do it and i have finaly a reason to cancel my last of my previous 3 accounts too."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no. i'd rather not see eve changed to be like many of the other mmos in which the player with the most cash has the most advantage."
"cosmeticactually, i would probably be ok with the microtransaction 'line in the snow' being drawn just after the nural remaps, because its not like your breaking the game or gaining a marked advantage"
"no.and not because i pay a monthly fee. this game has never had micro-transactions and to introduce them now means only one glaring reason....money...there is no other reason due to the way everything in the game is already set up. all items in the game cosmetic or not are and should be craft-able as it always has been. to change that now is to create a money siphon without reason."
"noif i pay a monthly fee, this should pay for all that can be had in the game. if microtransactions are introduced, it will easily just become a game where those who can/want to use more rl money get an edge.\"cosmetic\" is just the start, i'm afraid."
"no!"
"no"
"yes, as long as they include the option for me to make a custom \"one of a kind\" paint job for all the cyberdyne r-d titans and super carriers sold!"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi want boobs on my harcore manhunk portrait"
"no"
"i vote no no extra micro payment"
"no"
"no unless it is for cosmetic stuff only"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetics only.faster skill training through modified attributes is not cosmetics or vanity item and it will give the clear benefit over other players."
"no"
"noto eveville!"
"100% no not even the cosmetic since that will only open pandoras box.all hail to eve the only game worth selling your wife for subscribtion"
"no"
"no"
"no!strictly speaking there is nothing wrong with microtransactions if they stay restricted to little, unimportant features. but as eve is a business after all and thus subject to economical fluctuations i am absolutely sure, that once microtransactions have been introduced they will be used to earn ccp more cash whenever they think they might need some. ccp will without a doubt introduce more and more microtransactions and once this business model has settled itself into the mind of the community people will be asking for something serious, that gives them more for their cash. and and that will drive people off quicker than anything else eve is suffering from.ultimately this will turn the game into a milking station, no matter how serious ccp are now about their intentions. it's a path best not to start walking in the first place."
"noin a free to play gfame micropayments may be ok, but paying monthly fee and mircopaymants for any gamecontent??? no sir!!"
"noi pay a monthly subscription fee so i should get access to all the content."
"no."
"no.i would say \"cosmetically only\" were i not concerned that such a route is itself a slippery slope towards full implementation of being able to purchase advantages. ***warning wall of text***should the game go that route, i will quit. i am a player with an income probably not unlike may eve players (most eve players i know either are gainfully employed or are students heading in that direction.(there there is kinsy; j/k: <3 kinsy). accordingly while i could purchase advantages i prefer to play in a world that does not allow that. most games that implement micro-transactions do so as a substitute for the subscription model. the model is preferred in asia where it has been more accepted.often in china, the micro-transaction model is implemented because the majority of the player base cannot afford $15.00/month so the game distributes the cost among different players.these games are typically free to play and allow you to either grind or purchase advantages. if you have ever played a chinese mmo, you likely know what i am talking about. to me this appears to be a way for ccp to force its player base to spend more to remain competitive eve players in what is an extremely competitive game-play environment. want t2? gonna cost you. want a 5% bonus to all your characters e-war skills? heak yah. but it will cost you $. sure you don't have to purchase a general 5% bonus to web scramble ranges. just remember that next time that interceptor has you scrammed but you cannot scram it. no biggie right? wrong. this is where the game will go and there are plenty of games around and i for one will eventually leave this game should we find ourselves in anything that doles out more advantages based on $.we already have some. want a faction web? buy a gtc with cash and sell it for isk. (they still sell gtc's right?? don't honestly know). i was an avid daoc player (fantasy/pvp) and one of the factors that led to me dropping my three accounts was that i got tired of having to purchase each new expansion in order to have the most competitive armor/weapons/abilities. i was already paying 3x subscriptions. money is not the issue really so much as some point you feel you are being bilked to an extent that the game ceases to hold integrity.ccp go look at daoc numbers now. (i admit the largest factor of course in daoc collapsing was mythic's failure to address hacking, cheats etc. - save that for a different discussion - but still don't repeat any of their missteps).wall of text - sorry - just had my second cup of coffee."
"you really think that? my poor, naive, innocent boy, i have a footbridge in delhi to sell you..."
"no."
"wtf no"
"nomicrotransactions are bad, m'kay?"
"no !"
"i pay a subscription fee every month for my accounts...if i want to enhance the figure of my cyno alt, then i should be able to without paying extra."
"no"
"no."
"absolutely not!!"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only. though i see no harm in paying for things in isk, not plex or rl tender"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nono"
"cosmetic microtransactions only! no neural remaps or anything that affects sp!"
"at first i was going to say \"cosmectic only\", but given how last promises of \"cosmetic only\" turned into neural remaps, i'm gonna say a big ol'...no."
"if its only for things that do not give advantages to any player over all other players. so i say hell no!!!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic.at first i was a staunch \"no\" vote on this issue, but in the time since then and now, i've thought a little more on this.cosmetic stuff means very little to me at this point in my life, and the fact that others might spend their money on this shouldn't affect my gameplay in the slightest, nor should it affect theirs. it will also provide revenue to ccp, which i would hope would be applied to the betterment of the game, rather than to pad the bottom line for the profit statement.i've even come to terms with plex for remapping. my character is mature enough at this point that i can probably live with the remaps available to me without having to buy extra opportunities. if others want this, again, it's revenue for ccp that i hope is reinvested in refinements to the game.apologies if this is rehashing what others have said in the previous pages."
"no"
"no"
"***no****"
"no"
"no."
"no thank you.i would say \"cosmetic only\" but as others have stated that would open pandoras box. so, no."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyto get a leg up in this game you have to be smarter/sneakier/faster/more charismatic or more importantly a damsite luckier than the other guy. not by having deeper pockets.if someone wants a pink glittery ship then im happy to see the owners of my favorite game profit over it, as long as it doesnt affect my ability to kill them."
"no.eve is a competitive game at heart and that needs a level playing field at the core to function. the field is already uneven thanks to the existing rmt methods but to throw out all semblance of trying to maintain that field (from the game environment side) would destroy the vital competitive aspects that makes eve attractive and different from the mass of unremarkably dull mmos out there."
"cosmetic only"
"-yesyea boyyeee!"
"it's gonna happen people. it's revenue, csm's posting \"no\" is laughable because you guys are uselss anyway so you can easily be ignored.this is a profit opportunity that ccp will sieze up. as a business they should absolutely go that direction even against the 1% of people who post in the forums and promise to ragequit. sorry, it's going to be a business decision with little consideration from the player community.veteran people will moan and whine only because it wasn't afforded to them. get over yourself. it presents an opportunity for revenue and it's an opportunities to get friends into the game, ramped up and sucked into the mmo like the rest of us. it's gonna happen, deal with it.cheers"
"supported, though this thread is probably just a joke to ccp at this point."
"one could argue, emphatically, that the blind eye turned to the font issues detailed here is a rabid, seething wound, an insult de force to all the ccp men and women who have worked so hard to build the fantastic ship graphics** that are so visually stunning at higher resolutions. none of their work is truly enjoyable when accompanied by the optical stench of such small, unreadable characters. this data, these font characters, are absolutely necessary - we can't ignore them, they are the lifeblood of the eve universe - yet their useability has been compromised by a \"conspiracy* of inaction\" within the very company that stands the most to gain from a final solution worthy of the fantastic ships that we fly....*this is not to say that action has not been taken, just that none of the actions taken have resolved the problem....**(and every other object of art in eve)."
"this would be -fantastic!-"
"plus juan."
"gust give the neutral rr ship gcc if they rep someone at war, people pay isk to be at war so if they want to be involved they should join the corp/alliance they want to help or just or just be able to watch.but hey this got taken to the csm in 08 and 09 and its still the same **** so i don't think it will change ant time soon ccp wont want to lose money on alts."
"i have better idea. lets increase dmg by 1000% and reduce optimal to 0.1km with 0.1km falloff. and lets replace name of such turret from \"blaster\" to \"bump of doom\""
"ok then if you have a dagree in math what would you say is a better formula. i (as well as every blaster boat pilot) would love to read it. if your going to hate on the formula im using why don't you show me(us) a better one instead of just say how bad mine is."
"thanks you people! please pass the word around some more!"
"agreed on all counts. eve has such beautiful potential, and now with the new characters, we see just how glaringly bad some aspects look...particularly the damn clouds that are so fricken bright my screen basically goes white. ...might just be me. colorblind pod pilot that i am."
"+1 support this proposal"
"griefing the phishers! it's a start."
"add the folowing securities before enabling rsa key purchase:- account details must be unmoddified for 30 days prior to request- login notification of recent account detail modification- login notificcation of failed logins- login notification of previously unknown ip logins(both on web and client login of course)with some kind of email verification allow rsa purchase(5 day cooldown + login notification of purchase request)doing it this way you could even sell the rsa for a few plex at little extra security risks"
"excellent idea."
"this could have the potential to break the game."
"as far as i see, this just allows you to reallocate your skill points, it doesnt seem to give a person any more skill points than they previously had... there is no \"boost\" whatsoever given to anybody who does this other than how their skill points are distriubuted...i think it is kind of dumb that it costs plex instead of isk, but plex really is isk anyway so even that doesnt really even matter... so what is the big deal?or am i misunderstanding something here?(edit, and when i say 'skill points' i am actually talking about attribute points (as that is what a neural remap is), not the actual skill points gained from training a skill)"
"wtf ccp, not on your nelly. plexes have already totally devalued isk ingame and ruined the economy, i guess you could go the whole hog and speed up eves demise with this latest kick in the spheriods./signed if you wanna be free to play, be free to play. if you wanna be a real mmorg drop this frankly stupid idea and maybe rethink the real world money for isk market youve condemned in one breathe and blown totally out of proportion with plexes.seriously this is a phial to far.tc"
"supported"
"toasting, bread, epic.+1"
"wtf ccp????"
"disapprove."
"supporting because i think it's a stupid idea but some of you emo doomsayers need to take a breath and think about this. if you optimize your attributes for your training plan every year and then somewhat stick to it the actual sp difference from changing attributes every time you change skills is negligable. this really just allows people to chase after their sp butterflies mid training plan and possibly recover earlier from a *derp derp* remap.however i think that this sort of thing will end up opening doors to a lot of other features for rl money.tl;dr: i think it's a dumb idea but you emo ****s are seriously blowing this out of proportion."
"hell no this is not a facebook game for crying out loud this is a terrible idea!"
"please don't.many of us have put in years of patient work."
"i have always been telling the world about eve, only game i ever felt to have the spirit, care, and support to its players. since 2004 when i created first character vladimir ilich, i have been lured to this amasing world of pure gaming and wits. its strength is massive, comparing it to other mmorpg products is unimmaginable, it doesnt even stand to the critteria of 'product', as this is a gift to us, the players.now, when i ve heard the consideration of implementing an option to upgrade gameplay with real cash, which is supported by game developers, in this case the plex-remap case. i must say that it absolutely will cripple if not kill, exaust the spirit of eve and his maker the ccp, which i ve always talked of with awe to my brother while truing to lure him to play it, and the other people. nowdays all i see is games who profit from such operations, and i cannot deny ccp would be wise to follow and fight to take the milk from the cow everybodys been milking so hard, earn more cash, to support even further their progres with dust, and bloodlines game they are working on. but, the price to such actions is the one which players of eve will be paying, not just loosing players faith, but also shattering our, and mine, firm stand when we say: eve - online is the best game ever to be, and has incredible developer support. hell, sometimes i catch myself thinking what the hell i am doing in this game so long, and get bored from time to time, but then i think about the ccp and their care to this game like its a rare and valuable flower. just cause of that, i decided to fly the vast reaches of space as long as ccp and eve exist. i must say that weather you decide to make the first step towards the milking cow or not, i will not leave the game i loved so much. but to whom i am going to tell now, of the great and absolute, flawless game of eve and its developer ccp? petturson and the crew, decide!"
"when i first joined eve they preached \"time based skilling to level the playing field between the weekend warrior and hardcore no-lifers\". i would like ccp to then justify, that being the philosophy they built they're entire revolutionary skilling structure around, how that is in any way different than giving an advantage to those who see the subscription and 20 plexs a month as a drop in the bucket over those who are scraping (or grinding) every month to keep playing. ccp is asking its subscribers to resign themselves to the fact that someone who started the game at the same exact time will have millions more skillpoints than them at 6 months of gameplay because the other person has more 0's at the end of their bank account and there is virtually nothing that person can do about it. that's not to mention the people who have been around for 5, 6, 7+ years now only to see all their money and countless hours viewed as wasted because someone well-off can achieve the same thing in 3/4 or less of the time. to end my soapbox soliloquy, if they change this i probably wont walk away, at least not at first, but some will and the next outrageous change some more will. but to ccp this is balanced by the increase they see in plex sales and new subscribers (and new accounts) who are drawn in by the prospect of faster gratification for a few extra bills. all that being said, ccp, you have shown us you can disregard our petitions (like this one) and raging to fix ongoing and longstanding issues or to not implement unwanted changes regardless of the support they recieve. now, prove to us you have grown large enough to completely turn your back on your core membership and the people who made you what you are today.-signed-"
"i agree that this is the first step in the wrong direction, in and of itself it's fairly minor but it starts with remaps, then what? a collectors ship; ie zephyrs and that turns into faction shuttles and then faction frigates and then youre buying sp on double plex weekends while you wait for the titan sale next week?return to the days where players actually influenced the game =/just checked the 'for' thread, still on first page vs this one alreayd at 31 and growing in the time that it took me to scan over one other thread. clear player majority in opinion?"
"by reallocating attributes at your discretion you can, if you train the skills based on the attributes you've now paid isk/money-bought plex which if you pay for the reallocation only makes sense that you do, train 'optimally' for every skill that fits the allocation you've picked. doing so repeatedly means you train 'faster' than someone who only remaps per their yearly allocation and trains all the skills that fit the remap, less likely as priorities change and it isn't always possible to only train skills that fit your optimal remap setup. when comparing the two characters the one that remapped every time they trained skills with different primary and secondary attributes they come out with more sp than the player who trained mostly, if all, the skills for their single remap. the end result is two fold more sp for the remapping fiend and potentially a faster road to an overall goal like say being a 'very good' stealth bomber pilot and 'explorer' vs the other character that trained primarily one type of skill with a few others tossed in out of need/desire that didn't fit the original remap, they might have to 'wait' to train optimally for additional skills or train them at a diminished rate depending on the initial remap.plex isn't isk it is cash, every plex that exists came into being because someone paid $17.5 us for it it is truly pay to gain an ingame feature that you already have access to at a regular schedule. the fact that they now greenlight us paying for things our normal subscription allows us to have as an extra is part of the issue, how about you use a plex to get jump clones when you have no standing, or you use a plex to get a training bonus for 1 million sp? if you or someone else is willing to spend the cash you can overcome game constraints to get ahead it isn't about 'earning' or actually being better than others, more clever, etc it is about if you have extra cash to toss at ccp for benefits, aka bribing them. plex does the same but at least it combats isk sellers who would abuse ccp's product using macros to artificially create isk through methods normal players wouldn't do at the same rate, 23/7 mining, mission running, or by hacking player accounts and stealing their isk. this feature isn't something ccp has any competition with a 3rd party, they are doing it simply to make more $, so why not sell sp for $, why not sell ships for $, why not sell soverignty for $?"
"insert comment here"
"wtf ccp??"
"i say no!! like wtf! going in the wrong direction!!"
"blablabla that said blablabla...read as \"we going to do it anyways\",this is not good."
"lots of people have already said more or less what i think of this. i'm definitely against remaps for plex...."
"wtf ccp?!"
"why not try increasing revenue thru new accounts by fixing ur stupid broken game instead of this idiocy. it seems like you've just given up ccp.this is the thin end of the wedge ... stop before it's too late"
"never ever dare! wtf ccp building a good game and now trying to destroy it by urself o.o"
"i have to admit i'd be the first one to use this feature if it were available. but i still think it's wrong and i support this thread."
"another bs from ccp"
"what is next? custom colors for ships?"
"no!! to any type of microtransaction!"
"there is allwys some dumbass in a great corp who comes with crappy ideas. ccp - let the ppl decide. i would like to think that eve will remain the same considering skilltraining and other character based mods.if i would like to learn faster, i could just start playing wow. damn."
"no to unfair advantages... will ccp ever listen to its client base? no clients no business! hence we are stake holders in business, one does not work without the other.\"we will evolve just like everyone else. we will certainly not become a dinosaur. that has not been our style\", is this an excuse to do anything and everything? if we as customers stopped paying you would you listen? how do you not know that at some point down the track that when clients leave game that it is not influenced by such decisions.one day this will come back to bite you."
"i'm losing the faith every day a little more ccp..."
"don't start that kind of sh*t ccp..."
"no to micro transactions! its a disgusting idea designed to milk the players for even more money. are not the monthly fees we pay good enough anymore? you need more cash? really? :(plex for a remap gives a direct advantage to thoose who got more rl money over others."
"ccp just like most other gaming companies are losing focus of what they are and what their purpose is. stop trying to impress your shareholders and stop trying to boost your profits with abuse like this.ccp always goes on about balance. stop real money traders, stop macroing, stop using pos exploits... why? because it hits your bottom line. but when you introduce something that will increase your income to the detriment of game balance its ok. sad...we pay your salaries... without us you wouldn't exist. remember that.jz"
"plex is not currency, isk is currency. you can already legally buy isk isn't this enough?"
"^this^"
"no, damn"
"i do not agree on micro transactions."
"real-life cash shouldn't give you an in-game advantage."
"i vote no to micro payments!micro payments suck - they ruin the game. just see how fast lor dies"
"supporting"
"although it can be good and bad i will have to vote no for the greater good of this community"
"don't do it, ccp...it's a dangerous road...also, wtf, we hear about this first from a third-party website?"
"wtf ccp?!"
"supporting"
"/signed. don't open pandora's box! micropayment might be mainstream, but most ppl here play eve because it's different!"
"supporting this"
"no ... just no ccp"
"in support.if eve is going pay-2-win - i'm gone."
"i'm losing faith in ccp fast"
"just one small step for plex, one giant leap in the wrong direction."
"plex for remap makes me sad :("
"wtf?no.no, no, no, no, no.shoot whoever's coming up with these *ucking horrible ideas."
"noooooo!!! dislike to the power of n!"
"wtf ccp is a really good answer."
"i will quote another guy from the original topic:\"in a p2p game there should not be any way to advance more quickly than other via cash.\"eve has 2 unique features: fixed-speed skilling (i.e. it doesn't change if you play more or pay more), and the size of the playground. remaps allow faster skilling (even faster than optimized approach) and defeats hard work of year+ training plans.i will follow this situation carefully, let's just hope there will be barriers at least to moderate this potential balance breakout."
"not for plex, thats the wrong direction"
"wtf ccp!!!!if you approve this im out of eve"
"horrible idea ccp!!!!!!"
"this can only end badly, do not allow plex trading for neural remaps"
"supported (not that this thread, nor the csm's protests will ultimately have any impact on the path that ccp has in sight)."
"/supporting"
"i guess pay to play is not enough wtf."
"ccp isn't pulling the plug, ccp isn't making them kill it. they decided to kill it because they made no money off it. why should ccp let them or help them make money off of their app when there are other apps (eft, evemon, aura, iclone, evehq) that are all totally developed for free, and don't have any problems.it's not ccp's problem."
"judging by the capsuleer developers' statement, this is another case of ccp's inability to pull the trigger and make a solid commitment once again. no surprises here."
"i loved the hell out of this app and i really hope that iclone or even ccp realize how awesome having all the blogs together was and develop this feature into an app. yes, i realize i could do this through a google feed or whatever. i could do the same with news but i bought an app to do that for me too. i realize that ccp cannot possibly just favor a single developer no matter how awesome their app is so i would ask why it isn't feasible to have a blanket authorization for limited profit of any developer within reason and subject to honest product development (no scam apps). either that or crunch out an eve gate app of their own. certainly they're within their rights on that. i'd like to see the capsuleer devs get some payment out of it, but barring that i'd love to see someone take up the mantle with a nod of respect to the first guys to do it. regarding the naysayers, i realize individually there are really no unique features, but it was the combination that made capusleer great. yeah, any one could have though to combine that stuff, and anyone could have worked to make it as graphically appealing and smooth as the devs did. but anyone didn't do it, these two guys did.they aren't owed anything by ccp, but if they put up an app tommorrow that did absolutely nothing but cost a few bucks to thank them i'd buy it just to give them props for making my game better."
"i really hope ccp reads these.finding the capsuleer iphone app was a huge turning point in my eve online gaming experience. suddenly i discovered unity, forums, discussions, eve inspired fiction, fittings, whs!!!, and so many other things that an isolated corp didn't offer. capsuleer pushed my toons to a greater potential and even inspired my purchase of a second account. it provided growth to my corporation, and in turn, pushed the alliance much further being on top of all the blogs and forums.i applaud the developers in their decision to let go. they have a life beyond the computer screen. and if ccp doesn't see the potential growth of their game in a free app, then i'm sure another game will. i hope their intellectual property of such an incredible mobile platform that was provided by love is returned 20 fold in a financial reward. these guys deserve a reward for helping build a community.if ccp doesn't see that, i'm sure another company will!"
"what if ccp's goal is to take control of this type of technology/app for themselves and not hire out/contract/pay someone else who has no legal rights to it?i don't know how real that might be as it has been ccp's position to let players/fans do all the work themselves and get nothing but notoriety for their efforts.i support the developers efforts to get paid for their efforts but this is ccp's product/ip and afaik none of the other people who've developed sites/forms/apps/etc get paid by ccp or are permitted to sell their work for $, seems like this is asking for a 'special' exemption where others have not gotten that benefit. if the developers want to get compensated for their efforts and ccp isn't going forward with contracting/licensing/hiring them what have you the only option seems to stop developing or open it up for $ donations. if $ donations are permitted and pan out to cover their cost/effort then continue developing if not scrap it.i can't support the 'ccp support/patronage' as i don't know what that entails or how that works with all the other people who've done work that we benefit from in the forms of apps/websites etc that don't get anything from ccp and probably never will."
"all this seems to do is allow the reallocation of attribute points via neural remap more often than once per year... it requiring 1 plex to do it is nothing more than saying it costs ~360million isk (the current price of buying a plex) or $15 irl money... this really does nothing more than give the player the option to pay 360mil isk to buy a neural remap... that is all it does.it is completely seperate from the already existing issue that you can essentially purchase that 360mil isk with rl money by buying a plex, of which the feature already exists in the game... if that is the issue people are having, it is a completely different topic (the topic of \"should you be able to trade plex for in-game isk?\").so as i said before, the only thing this changes is the ability to remap more than once per year."
"i support itthose qq'ing about people buying a plex and being able to remap.look at jitasee all those plex for sale for isk?ya. buy one of those.yes i know the plex got into the game via rl money, but so has everything else. nothing in the game would exist without there being a cash transaction at some time. (hello subscriptions)for those that say oh i don't have enough isk to buy one and i'm too pool irl to buy a plex. well who gives a **** about you? you obviously don't play enough for this to have any impact on you whatsoever."
"i fully support plex 4 remap .... please do it asap so i dont waste any more of my time with this noob remap i did."
"i totally support it and think it's a great idea. i've only been playing eve for 6 months and did not fully understand the training skills mechanics at the beginning and made a mistake with my first neural remap and had to change to intel and memory to maximize training the learning skills.so now i'm having to concentrate for a whole year on memory and intel support skills before i can swap over to perception and willpower for drones gunnery and spaceship command, i even have cybernetics at 5 and bought +5's to quicken the process up.to be honest this new option will appeal to the newer players more than established players and eve needs to engage and retain the newer player base because without them this game will slowly die.i personally think everyone should have the option to neural remap as he or she so sees fit and what is the difference between paying 130 mill isk for implants or paying 350 mill per neural remap in game. you still have to fund it through game currency and people with rl commitments who are time poor still buy gtc's wether it be for new mods, ships or implants aren't these micro-transactions as well.anyway the more options the better and everyone will have the free choice without there being a huge dramatic shift in sp distribution."
"i support for a simple reason, it is a game. let's say you've got it all figured out, you remap, then two weeks later your corp/alliance breaks up, and you had been working on specific roles for that group. now your new group wants you for a new purpose ... there are many reasons to allow remaps, people can currently spend a lot of rl cash, buy a fancy char with all the skills they want, but none of the customization.instead of opposing it because you hate rmt, which i do as well, let's discuss why we hate rmt.perhaps it should be a direct pay ccp 330 m isk to do it, and don't use plex, just create a sink for money to leave the game. remapping is good, really you can't really say it isn't a good thing. rmt sucks, most of us agree."
"this is exactly why i posted my proposal (i thought it was pretty obvious tbh).why did they introduce this feature as a microtransaction instead of being tied to an ingame mechanic.people were upset because they thought this would start us down the path of microtransactions.oh. and look what happened... lols.-t'amber"
"not supported.eve is not a simple jrpg, how can you even support this kind of development?"
"folks, if you do support this (although as i've stated above, it's a moot point now), please remember to check the support this topic: box below your editor when you write your reply. it is the second checkbox, directly beneath the preview: checkbox. there are 7 of you who have posted thus far who obviously support this but there is only mine and one other thumbs-up registered."
"t'amber, i am fully aware of why you posted your proposal and what your concerns were/are. personally, i would prefer they had used an ingame mechanic too and i was not without my reservations of this possibly leading to mts. but in all honesty, this apparently is not the feature that will lead to mts but is instead a product of that thinking already within ccps discussions. the feature in and of itself is not a bad feature as so many have been shouting which is why i posted my proposal.to be honest, i believe this decision goes a lot deeper than most of us realize. this is about finances for ccp. with two new games in development (wod & dust 514) one of which is a break from the usual for ccp in that it is both a console game that will be an mmo and tied to a pc mmo, a major expansion in the works (incarna) that will eventually add a whole new dimension to eve, and the ongoing work needed to continue eve itself and to keep it growing, thriving, and running as efficiently (yeah, big issue there) as possible, ccp obviously needs more money. the player base subs have not been growing fast enough to offset the cost of development which is one reason why the shiny new avatars are appearing a good 6 to 8 months before the launch of incarna in the hope that it alone will begin to draw in those players who have shied away from eve due to the lack of a true avatar. but that probably is not going to be enough and ccp knows that (they may be a lot of things in some players' minds, but dumb they are not). thus, the sudden inclusion of plex for neural remaps and talk of other, cosmetic, mts.think about it... with a player base of roughly 330,000, if just 5% of those players use the feature just one time, that equates to roughly $288,750.00 = (330,000 x 5%)($35.00/2). if 5% uses the feature on a semi-regular basis, that is a significant boost for the development coffers. if this helps to insure the continuation of and the growth of the game we all love so much, then i for one will step back from my hate of mts and cash shops and give it a chance to work."
"i think you're conflating \"boost to the developer's coffers\" with \"boost to improving the gameplay,\" two things which imo don't at all correlate. if ccp sees they can make lots of money merely by introducing micropayments instead of, say, polishing what they've got until it's so awesome that more people hear about it and sign up, then hey, why not just produce more of the thing that makes lots of money?throwing money at ccp for making the game worse won't get you a better game.not supported."
"not supported."
"+1 support"
"wow, i like how you got nearly all your pro and con points wrong or simply fail to understand how the things you are writing about actually work."
"wow! i'm amazed at your superior reading comprehension and complete understanding of how things actually work.+1 - supported"
"this whole matter is insane.got my support though."
"there should be some ways to enhance your players skills somewhat faster by work in the game. using months subscribed as the primary metric of how many sps characters have in the account is ok, but hardly any lofty ideal. its more a lesser evil choice. going to a 100% advancement by pve achievement (grind) wouldn't be something i suggest, but allowing those who so choose to leap forward a few months a year (20 to 30%) hardly would throw out the primary time metric.wisdom and skills are developed by time and effort...seems to be a good role play and competitive mix to me...(and the game is nicely competitive between people with vastly disparate skills already...some vitaly important roles can be played by very low sp characters .as i buy plex for 4 accounts each month with isk i've earned in game, the plexes are phychologically no different to me. on a logical basis, other people should be able to over come their opposite phychological bias and realize that each and every item that can be aquired with isk in the game is essetially a micro transaction already.$ already translates directly to any item or privalege that can be bought with isk...that should be pretty clear to anyone thiking about it. it matters not if its a plex or 350 million isk that need to be transferred to a npc or another player to get something.so.. to me it boils down tois it a good idea for players to be able to earn a re-map ?andshould we keep the game with its economy at the center of allowing a sandbox of many different ways to earn isk according to play prefference...or should all new things of value force characters to perform specific pve \"missions\" with un-trnaferable rights to the price ?i think its a good idea to have a way to earn extra re-maps and i really like the idea that the game doesn't force us into specific channels and \"bind on contact\" dynamics."
"my proposal would be the ability to select 2 or more items, right click and see their combined volume (m^3) total either directly on the right click menu or through a volume (m^3) scale button. this is an immensely useful feature that should have been implemented years ago and is perhaps just an oversight on ccp's behalf but one easily enough remedied."
"give the option for 2 color combination's to every faction. example is the gallente color scheme. we're stuck with this metal/teal color on every non faction ship, but the gallente shuttle gets a nice metal/yellow job. give us the option to use either on every gallente vessel. not a free for all, choose your own color scheme thing, just the option to have two developer set color schemes you could choose from. do the same for every faction, it adds variety and at least the barest and easiest to implement version of a personal appearance choice without the threat of garish, non cannon colors or added lag."
"i guess - to balance versatility and return rate.say that t3 miner would have 70% return rate of hulk, but it would be really hard to catch with \"pants down\" in a belt.if t3 cruiser has anti bubble mech, why wouldnt t3 miner have for example anti point, with infinite warp strength and can be caught only in bubbles / hic bubble / inderdiction spheres.ppl would actually jump around with it in search of rocks to mine. profitable mining wouldnt be limited to owning / paying for sov space to see a bistot rock floating around.i."
"there are ten thousand ways for them to make it mine on par with the hulk or slightly less and still be better. than the hulk. with the way they are working the modular systems it could be very nice... or horrid.either way i won't say no."
"ok, that makes sense - so it's advantage won't be mining rate, per se, but in being a more survivable mining platform. i can go with that."
"very nice idea, the new 0.0 miner for sure :)"
"explain how are we going to pop such ship in low-sec or in high sec even with a wardeck... since bubbles cant be used there, low-sec mining becomes safer than high sec mining. infinite warp strength is uterly wrong. just give it 2-3 warp strength or bubble immunity. you are offering 100% safe mining, only chance to be killed is by huge alpha and since it'll be t3 and will have heavy tank this might be impossible..."
"supported as long as the t3 exhumer does not offer 100% safe mining. nothing in eve should be 100% safe."
"not supported in its current form.the next gen hulk should... not be allowed to operate in empire not exceed current solo hulk/m3 cycle time exceed fleet hulk/m3 cylce time when operating in a fleet with mining bonuses have a mining crystal bay be able to link and deposit rocks directly into the ore hold of an orca or rorqualnext gen hulk ideas are continually posted here. take some time to reference the previous posts. not really a fan of mining in a glorified proteus."
"topic reposted here"
"yup!"
"uhh is he implying he is in the nc? if so, then we are all doomed."
"i all for game balancing, but i also like to have some regions in 0.0 to be better that others so we have something to fight over. imagine that all the region had the same isk making potential with moons and a mixture of all the different rats in eve that would be no fun. i believe that with the current situation where some regions are better then others, moon and/or ratting wise there are more reason to have the fights going. im talking about the big long term campaigns not the random roaming gangs.im simply afraid, that if we balance this to a degree that no region are better that the other, we would get a 0.0 that would be more like hallo kitty online. i personally like the fact that we can have large campaigns, that could last for more that several months at the time. if we make it so that every region is more or less of the same financial value, i dont see the reason to do this. yes right now some alliances and coalitions are in control of most of the good moons, but it is simply a matter of the other alliances in eve to band together and take it from the current owners."
"i don't think that anyone is askin to make everything 'equal' the thing right now howver is that only tech is located in 1 'area' whilst all the other moon types can be found all over. i therefor think its fair to either shuffle some tech moons around or limit some of the other moon types(and not all or to each region with its own moon type) to a certain area, in doing so making tech not the only resource that can be pretty much controled by 1 party.like this there will be 2 or 3 regions where you can find a special moon type. this does not only make it slightly fairer, this only assures thet there will be more conflict as there will be more regions worth assaulting for the local resources! so imo, everyone wins :p"
"get out of highsec?"
"i know you think you know what you're talking about but you really don't. stop uberfaction****fitting tengus in highsec and maybe you won't die like an idiot on an undockalso nice troll op"
"you understand that the gank fleet is setup to die right? they only need 1 shot and an alt to loot the wreck so there is your fleet unless you are imagining a fleet to take down a freighter or something which isn't really what is being discussed here. your advice on fitting a t3 also shows you don't understand the problem or that is your attempt to push more faction fit ships to get popped and looted. a correctly setup bs can alpha a t3 no matter what the setup, barring possibly if it is setup exclusively for hp which negates it's use for anything, ie no guns, which is pointless unless you are hauling bpo's which can be done in any number of other ships setup as such."
"read the post again. it's t2 fit tengu with only ammo, no faction. ganking is such those days that they don't scan anymore, just hit the trigger and bid their luck, or the next gankers in line will get their hands on it."
"you misunderstood. fit a bit of buffer and it increases your chances of survival by quite a bit. pay attention to your entire overview turning yellow and turn your tank on in advance or just gtfo.don't fly anything you can't afford to lose. suicide ganking isn't likely to change as a legitimate in game tactic. you can minimize your risks with just a little bit of effort and understanding of game mechanics.all this being said i wouldn't complain about insurance not covering loss to concord but i wouldn't expect that to do anything to stem the flow of suicide gankers."
"you underestimate how paper thin active pve fit t3s are. it takes only one arty volley from one bs to gank a tengu, harder on or not. it's not a rattlesnake with the ehp of a freighter."
"i bolded the part that you're wrong about.a) - they already did that recently and also made it so sec status changes impact the aggressor more if he's attacking someone with higher security status.b) - they recently did that too. decreased it from half a minute or so to what it is currently, about 1/3 of what it used to be.c) - no, they don't need to revoke the insurance for aggressors. i don't care to explain why, but revoking insurance for anyone who loses their ship is a bad idea.d) - sec status changes are a sign of appreciation from concord for having destroyed an enemy faction's ship, such as sansha. if you're going to remove it from nullsec, i would suggest you propose removing +sec status changes from lowsec as well, since it's not really empire controlled space either. neither of those are good ideas."
"so where do i go to sign up to suicide gank gate and station lurkers for a fee? where would i sign up for that database or mailing list that posts character names of suicide gankers along with a unofficial bounty (you'd be good for the isk because you're a solid citizen, right?)?those things don't exist do they? you have all the tools in the sandbox you need to solve this problem. stop petitioning ccp to give you balls or drive to compete."
"it doesn't exist because it's stupid. it takes half a dozen bs to gank one ganker bs. but only one volley out of one ganker bs to gank a t3 cruiser. even if you gank a ganker, he loses almost no isk from insured tech 1 tier 1 bs, and can dock up immediately for another one. no aggro, no sec loss, no isk loss. there is no way to get back at gankers, because game mechanics does not allow it, give up."
"heres a hint turn your hardeners on whilst your travelling and then the gank bs wont be able to volley your unless your **** fit"
"hardeners are important too but i said buffer. if you have to gimp your t3's mission fit a little to make it more surviveable then so be it (personally i don't think you really have to). if you're too lazy to do that then go buy a rattlesnake 'with the ehp of a freighter'."
"one or 2 lses won't keep that tengu from being one volleyed by arty by a long shot. any more and you run out of grid and your failfit won't be viable for pve. trust me, ppl have tried and failed. there is a reason solo instapopping tengus are all the rage those days, to a point where they would blind gank ones that ended up being t2 fitted without scanning, because it's so easy."
"haha, you seriously have no idea how to fit a ship do you?*picks one of the highest ehp subcaps in the game**declares it cant be tanked to survive a one shot*"
"for once i agree with ed over there (and that's rare)either there are that many idiot tengu pilots who don't know wtf they are doing.or this bull#### about \"t3's can't survive the first shot form a gank bs\" is just utterly full of epic fail.whose trolling who again?"
"here is proof in cinema that t3 can have high ehp. this fight came down to the freaking wire and i assure you we all had lots of ehp."
"standard active tanked subsystem tengu with a dc on has 17k ehp, best subcap volley with all lvl 5's and hardwirings is roughly 14-15k i believe so surely with your shield hardeners on as well you shouldnt be popped baring lag activating your modules.edit. damn it thats the third thread in a row that i have the first on the next page and i didnt snipe"
"tengu has zero shield em resist, and mission runners will be using specific hardners on kinetic missions using bonused kinetic missiles. it's also standard for the 4 lows to be filled by 4 bcs without dc for pve fit. ehp =/= ganked hp. there are too many clueless posts here. we all know about the 700k ehp brick fit proteus. it's not mentioned because that's a moot point. if you failfit your pve t3 like that a regular raven will blitz faster. pve =/= pvp fit. pvp fit fail pve, and vice versa. that's why all those ganks happened. whatever you noobs think you know, you don't."
"(golem info)learn to fit your tengu correctly.this tanks guristas sanctums every day and even 8/10 without much of a problem.around 1bil[tengu, hello sleeper]damage control iidread guristas ballistic control systemdread guristas ballistic control systemgravimetric backup array iidread guristas ballistic control systemphased weapon navigation array generation extronpith b-type large shield boosterdread guristas shield boost amplifierdread guristas photon scattering fieldinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iiheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missilemedium capacitor control circuit iimedium capacitor control circuit iimedium warhead rigor catalyst itengu electronics - dissolution sequencertengu defensive - amplification nodetengu engineering - capacitor regeneration matrixtengu offensive - accelerated ejection baytengu propulsion - intercalated nanofibersall l5 stats:29k full/20k shield ehp with 100% exp damage31k full/18k shield ehp with 100% em damage39k full/27k shield ehp with uniform distribution48k full/33k shield ehp with 100% kin damage81k full/50k shield ehp with 100% thermal damage558 dps w/o implants593 dps with +3% implants (zmh1000,zma100,zms100,zmm100)617 dps with +5% implants (zmh2000,zma1000,zms1000,zmm1000)a torp golem has 1k dps, but 650m explosion radius instead of 145.5 and nowhere near the omnitank a tengu has, neither a small sigradius (686m compared to 195m)"
"as the post above this one showed, you really need to learn how to fit your tengu's"
"he is probably one of the people who use shield power relays."
"yup.... sorry goose...epic fail on your part.you've been soundly pwn3d.still can't believe i'm backing up a goon over this.i'm losing my mind. >.<"
"tldr: reduce capacitor use on 100mn mwd's by 40%.why:after the nano nerf, and in particular the change to warp scramblers, microwarps never got a fair look at.under the old system, it made a lot of sense for a battleship class mwd to use a boat load of capacitor to prevent it from perma mwd status. but with the nerf to speed, bs speeds got impacted heavily and could ultimately be cut off using this module through a variety of other means for the attacker.the problem really remains that a bs mwd uses an unbelievably high amount of capacitor that doesn't match it's role. battleships already have a much higher use of capacitor for guns and active tank, so the unproportional change to the mwd cap use really doesn't make sense when there's no balance needed thanks to the nano nerf.lets look at 3 tiers of amarr ships for comparison. at lvl 5 skills:executioner:cap recharge 4.6mwd capacitor need is 3.8so at 5/5 skills, this frigate can perma run a mwd w/o fitting any other mods.maller:cap recharge 9.7mwd capacitor need is 14.9on the cruiser class, the ship requires more cap than it's base recharge at lvl 5 skills, but the disparity isn't great. it only requires 2 cap power relays to become cap stable. armageddon:cap recharge 16.9mwd capacitor need is 59.4it requires 5 cap power relays with all lvl 5 skills to become cap stable. this seems absurd.the problem is, you're not scaling the mwd on any reasonable platform. it takes an unreasonably high amount of modules to get it to where it can use a mwd effectively without relying on cap injectors. the real issue come into play for the blaster boats because they have a very high cap use weapons platform, and the need for a very high cap use speed module, and they can either active tank, which is also extraordinarily high on cap use, or plate, which negatively affects the mwd, ultimately using more capacitor to arrive at the same location.reducing the capacitor use of a 100mn mwd by 40% would give a character with all lvl 5 skills a cap use of 35.64/s. this is still a large chunk of capacitor usage and would make it virtually impossible to perma run an mwd while doing anything else, in particular without any extra capacitor buffs."
"please state why you think they should be stable?"
"posting in a stealth-minmatar-buff thread."
"okay so one of the drawbacks with drone-ships is that their primary weapon can be destroyed or left behind. this is usually not a huge problem in lowsec if you bring spares along in your cargohold, as you can dock up at any random station and re-supply yourself.it's more of an issue in 0.0 where roaming gangs often have to kill and gtfo when there are no stations readily available. for a myrmidon this is a pretty big problem where you'd have to be stupid to forsake the extra 90 dps of the 2-2-1 combination in favor of 5 hammerhead iis. even when you plan on using 3 straight flights of hammerheads iis, you could easily end up losing all of them if your roam is busy hitting targets and getting out as soon as local spikes.this is not a whine-post about the weapon system itself, but rather i'm stating some reasons for a suggestion. allow drones to be moved from the cargohold to the drone bay. to prevent abuse during fights, while the the drone bay is being reloaded, no drone-related activity can be taken for a period of 2 minutes. let those who want to invest extra isk into giving their drone-boats more endurance on roams do so.edit: conditions1. drones cannot be reloaded while the player has an aggression timer.2. timer of 2 minutes where no drone-related activity can be taken."
"being gallente i understand ur grievance but have to disagree with ur proposed mechanism or at least the timescale. 30 seconds is not a *really* long time for a dual/triple repping myrm fighting a solo target. if said target was popping drones the myrm may be able to survive quite easily long enough to move a fill bay over again... really not very fair.the transfer should either take *much* longer, like 2 minutes at least or be cap related like onlining modules, even then that might be achievable with cap booster, so i dunno, but ur proposal is really no good"
"not a bad idea in theory, but would need to be balanced carefully. i'm thinking maybe have inflight drone bay changes require a cap percentage in the same way that inflight onlining of modules does."
"fyi tier 3 does not equal tech 3"
"ask yourself, what do they actually add to the game?as pointed out here, arguably in a mess of words, the attributes themselves are the problem and doesn't actually make much sense.it's not the attributes that constitute the strategic choice of what your character does, it's the training order of skills. the attributes together with learning/implants follows after that choice has been made. if not, they are simply an annoyance.i realize this is a matter of perspective, but i do not see how the attributes really affect the game play in a positive way. all it does is make players divide training into blocks and implant/remap accordingly, or hold off certain skills completely. where, exactly, is the value added in that - especially considering that the choice still exists with the skill plan?cut that extra fluff. simplify and sort this mess out for good.--tl:drremove attributes and all skills / implants related to them. sp/h would be the same regardless of who you are and what you train.there would still be the choice of what to focus the training on.there would still be a risk/reward choice involved with using enhancing implants."
"edit: adding content because i pressed enter instead of tab.it would be fairly interesting if heat damage from overloaded modules went towards damaging hull, rather than damaging modules themselves. this would allow for prolonged overloading of certain modules if needed, and provide a risk of destroying one's own ship if they did not pay attention to the damage it was taking.perhaps if this was done, nanite paste could be changed to repair hull at some slow rate, still providing the same end effect it does now?"
"the one question your proposal does not address is why?why do we need a change from the existing mechanic other than \"it would be interesting\"?"
"+1i especially like the boolean system for the pilots' tab.don't forget import/export to file, and being able to duplicate them."
"yes import/export should definitely be there somewhere. and it should come in two flavors, either export/import a single overview setting or all of them at once.and duplication is already possible if you look at the second picture. the second option in the menu is \"use as template\" which essentially means you duplicate it into a new overview setting. and this works on all items, not just the template ones."
"dear ccp.the tilde sign (~) and the minus sign (-) looks pretty much the same.please make the tilde sign a bit more tildish (make the wave thingie more wavier).pros: people will be able to differentiate between a minus and a tilde. less confusion in chats.cons: someone will have to work on this, instead of fixing bugs such as fleet lag, random crashes, memory usage, etc.thanks!"
"we'vebeen begging ccp for a revamp of the font for quite a while now to no avail.~ and - are not the only characters that are giving us a hard time... how about 0 and o or 8 and b, 5 and s (ingame that is).supporting another \"ccp please give us a distinguishable font\"-thread. the csm already picked that one up so actually we don't necessarily need this thread...font issuelax"
"g 6 &"
"hello,if anyone here has had the pleasure of trying to take a station you have found that a few things can happen.1. you bring a massive blob to the station for 6 days in a row with no resistance, this is taking a big toll on your membership as it takes some effort to coordinate this. unfortunately on the final timer the defender decides to batphone and blob the system resulting in 6 days of hard work with nothing to show for it.2. the defender has decided not to defend anything at all but despite this the attacked has to grind hundreds of millions of ehp over the course of weeks to take over the undefended space.3. the defender kills your sbus before you were able to achieve anything.4. you have constant fights as you take the station down and eventually either take the station or not but at least had good fights in the meantime.the points that i want to address here is the first two. i think it's bad for the game the a defending alliance does not need to show up for days while the attacker is going full throttle and if they show up one day it doesn't matter that they were absent for the first 6 days.here is what i am suggesting, it will be a sort of \"blitzkrieg\" attack option which will be done by using a new type of sbu:will cost a large amount of isk, something like 4-5 billionwill be anchored at the stationwill take 6 hours to onlinewill have very little ehp, something like 3-4 million.will disable all jump bridges and cyno gens in the system once onlinewill reduce the station rf cycle to just 1 rf phase, in the structure, which will be set to a random 12-24h timer.this is a pretty rough draft but let me know what you think or if you have any suggestions."
"its all in the maths. lar ii provide 800 hp every 15 seconds. a single 1600mm rt plate provide 4,200 hp. youll need 5.25 lar ii cycle to fully cover for a single 1600mm plate. 5.25 cycles is 78.75 seconds. 4200 divided by 78.75 is 53.333. a lar ii is only worth it over a 1600mm plate if you are to tank a meagre 53 dps for 80 seconds.it does not stop here. lar iis base activation cost is 400 capacitor units. 5.25 times 400 is 2,100. thats 2,100 capacitor units youll use just to tank 50 freakin dps for a bit more than a minute. but wait! theres more! lar ii need 2,300 pg to fit at all while 1600mm rt need only 500 pg.active tanking is flat out pointless. please, boost local reps to better than wtflol levels of efficiency."
"i've seen quite a few tripple repairer, tripple/double booster myrmidons that did fine in small scale pvp.i've seen many hyperion that did the same thing. even with neuts if you cycle boosters and repairers well you'll be fine.i've seen and used active shield tank cyclone. x-large booster (there is a nice video with one that kills solo 4bc i think)above post need to include ressistances if he wants real tank and not some random values.local reps are not intented to be for fleet engagements. (hint hint logistics hint hint) remote reps are intented to be for fleet engagements.not supported, i dont think any of those need buff."
"not supported, the cap booster is an effective countermeasure to the neut as are tactics that keep you out of neut range."
"i'm dubious about any fix that is based simply on changing costs. eve has proved repeatedly that ccp does not plan game mechanics around inflation. just looking at the supercap proliferation shows there is enough isk floating around the majority of 0.0 alliances to make sov costs a non-issue.i can tell you right now that my alliance spends far far more on pos fuel or ship reimbursments than sov costs. increasing sov costs to make the constellation discount worthwhile would only hurt smaller entities trying to claim their own space. larger groups will barely notice.consider this example: a major alliance takes sov in a whole constellation with 7 systems and 3 stations. with your proposed cost changes this will cost around 5bn per month assuming average upgrades. a 5% discount on this drops the cost to 4,750m. that 250m/month saving does not even cover the additional cost of owning the 4 non-station systems, let alone provide much incentive to defend them. major alliances can quite easily throw away that 250m every day and not notice a dent in their finances. they're not going to blink at losing their quarter bil a month discount.any system tied to cost will always benefit the ones with the most cash. if you want smaller entities to be able to make larger ones take notice, the best way is to allow them to negatively affect the defender sov mechanics themselves.my idea can be extended to do this. a couple of the most obvious ideas include tying ihub use to sov level. if a system is brought below say 7 points by attacking the 'worthless' systems nearby, the ihub simply goes offline.another alternative is to tie the reinforce timer variance to upgrades/sov level. a heavily invested core system may have a 2-3 hour variance on it's timers, but outlying ones with minimal infrastructure have a much higher 6-8 hour variance making them far more vulnerable.smaller groups will be able to damage the larger alliances by going for these outlying targets, weakening defenses for the overall area. the more edge systems are broken, the harder it gets to defend central ones."
"1.0"
"we already have hookers found in mission brothel.put them to good use.i."
"seriously?there are hundreds of thousands of subscibers who like the way eve is now. they like the fact that unlike so many other games you are never truly safe if someone is willing to put the resources toward ruining your day. they also like laughing at people like you when you come on to the forums and go 'baaaaaawwwwwwwww this game isnt how i want it fix it for me naow' like you're somehow more important than every other subscriber.stop trying to change what makes this game unique because you're not smart enough or too lazy to protect yourself. biomass your char, go outside once in awhile, and start looking for a game that'll touch your ****, stick its finger up your ass and tell you how pretty you are. that's obviously what you're looking for and it isn't here."
"since when do you get gcc while fighting in w-space? if you mean the normal 15 minute timer you stay in space if you log off in or immediately after combat, that's a different mechanic and there to prevent logoffski's."
"phelzier -please read the sticky topic, hot topics of the assembly hall. this idea has been submitted several times, has links up and has been submitted to ccp as an issue."
"fixing the collision boxes we will cause the lose of those beautiful and surreal moments that occasionally happen upon undock but if they have to go could we not have real collisions as i long for the magical phrase \"ramming speed!\" to have true meaning in eve apart from it's possible sexual connotations."
"ramming speed won't come until after a lot of changes occur. one huge one would be squad warp (specifically in regards to capitals). honestly, not high on the list of things that need work."
"while i do find the previous opinions interesting, and i do actually agree with collision damage assuming we can get a better manual flight system; please, do not confuse my intent in creating this thread. requesting that ship collisions result in damage being taken by the ships involved is not in the scope of this discussion.this thread is for the discussion of broken collision boxes on various objects found in the eve universe. broken collision boxes are defined here as being collision boxes that cause a significant graphical issue, whether through severe clipping, or by preventing vessels from approaching as closely as they should be able to.the current system of modeling vessels collision boxes is not actually broken, it merely needs a few patches to prevent hyperion battleships from eating smaller ships and to prevent objects from bouncing ships at extreme distances.the current system seems to use cylinders, spheres and a few other polyhedrons for defining the collision boxes of objects in space. the trouble is that for the hyperion, the cylinder seems to only extend along half of the length of the ship. i would only request that these issues be fixed to prevent these problems from recurring in the future.~robert catachan"
"updated october 7, added in microtransactions threadnaught."
"that ment nothing to ccp...."
"bump"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"if it would mean buying stuff (better ships, implants or equipment) that is otherwise (through other in-game means) unavailable:by all means no!(unless it is a pink zealot)"
"no, this is not the way to go. this will take away the only thing left of value in this game wich is skill points."
"no.don't kill eve by making the most important in-game ability how much real money you have.people can already trade plex for isk to buy any item available in-game. unique items as prizes for at and such makes them really unique as they're rewards for actual performance. skill training is, and should be, equal for all subscribers."
"no. i'd say cosmetic only, but we all know it wouldn't end there. don't destroy eve pleeeeeeeeeease ccp. let the console guys have microtransactions with dust."
"no"
"no"
"no.i've worked hard to earn my skillpoints."
"novote no - i think that because you pay a set fee each month that you should have access to all the options and features ingame that everyone else gets. yeah i cut and pasted lol, im lazy.i do however think that plex would be good for using to pay transfer fee for character exchanges."
"no...maybe for cosmetics, but really. i'll by a plex before every large engagement if they'll spend time on making it lag free or even less laggy. i don't need phuking red tuck and roll upholstery in my ships or tats on my toons. don't need roses on my piano either, but twolips on my organ would be nice."
"i would like to support the notion of ccp totally screwing the game up far more than it already is."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! cept for boobs plz"
"lmao!!! noooooo"
"nolets stop trying to make eve more like other games. eve is a pure breed and a yard of mutts. cosmetic only wouldn't be too bad but i would rather not open this door. you give somebody an inch they take a yard.edit: minor spelling fix"
"no"
"cosmetic only, this would be for incarna and incarna only. as much as i want to say no, at the time being the benifits would outweigh the cons, as this woudl be a good source of revenue to update the servers, software and maybe expand offices to be more world wide.ps- added to hot topics."
"no thanks.the next logical step after this would be an attempt to allow real world marketing which frankly would be the absolute end of the game.please no!"
"yesthat being said, i don't care if they do it for cosmetics (yeah to vanity), remaps (dude if you are 4 years behind me remaps are not going to help) or even faction mods (a fool and his mods are soon parted). however, i do draw the line at named mods and skill points. those two.. not ever"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"man, i got so mad about this totally not-going-to-happen idea that i totally forgot my anger over three broken patches and a litany of features that have been broken for a year or more!nice job, ccp."
"cosmetic onlythe only thing i'm curious about is that if these micro transactions use plex's like the possible remap system would, then would this not push plex prices somewhat higher?"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"hell no!"
"hell no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only!"
"no"
"cosmetic only and even then no special items. i could see giving people a chance to remake their avatars though."
"no - i'd probably leave the game if ccp allows you to buy an advantage. this is exactly what i did and many others did when sdenternet did this with navyfield.if you want to go down this route i suggest you set-up a separate server cluster."
"no. absolutely not.and for one simple reason.this to me screams out that they(the beancounters at ccp) have all got hard ons for wow's subscriber numbers, and all the money blizzard must be making over all the 'not-so-micro' transaction based features they've rolled out.once upon a time i was a wow player... for several years, much to my shame. and the fact that they added micro transactions is one of the bigger reasons i left that garbage dump of an mmo. so here's my warning to ccp, the path you are on will not lead to greater subscriptions.. it will just burn the dedicated hardcore audience who have stuck by you so long.i do not expect things to stay the same, but i expect the *game* to change. *not* the business model that underlies it.tldr; don't be blizzard... or i'll divorce you too :p"
"no"
"noit really is the thin end of the wedge - they already have the infrastructure to give out skill points, and with a move towards micrtransactions in general, how long before you start to have plex for sp? they not be planning it now - but what about in another 6 months or a year?"
"no"
"no!please ccp don<U+FFFD>t go. this way leads to the dark side"
"no"
"no"
"no!no!no!"
"no"
"no.pretty stupid idea."
"no thanks!!!!"
"no.please dont let them turn eve into some shoddy facebook space game where the only way to get ahead is to pay even more cash to get performance you should already have!"
"i vote no - although in a way it's irrelevant, the irl rich people or people with access to parents credit cards can already have an advantage by buying gtc and selling it for isk, then buying better ships, but yeah it's a bad idea to start letting microtransactions develop further than that."
"no"
"yes.i don't care."
"no"
"yesi don't really see the harm. you can already use rl cash for just about everything in eve. be it a character account transfer, portrait change, or to get isk to buy anything in the game except a neural remap. this step only makes sense. you want to get that cap character done training a few weeks earlier? go throw down some cash on it."
"no"
"no!"
"no!i'm not even in favor of plex and character protrait changes, but they are a fact so i am willing to live with it."
"yes! i want to fly a pink avatar with an extra large gun and i want it tomorrow, how much will that cost me ccp?"
"what's going on here? well, it depends... what's your stance? i'll go the other way."
"you can already do this sans the pink. i would also suggest fitting more than one gun. it costs around 4-5 thousand usd iirc."
"cosmetic onlyallowing people to buy skills or non-vanity items will surely break the gameplay and fun especially for players with old accounts and will turn eve into a 10yr old-steal-the-parents-cash playground."
"no!"
"sup dude, you can already buy every item in the game with rl cash or \"microtransactions\". but awesome job ignoring what's in the game as so many posters here have chosen to do."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"nobut this (adding micro transactions) could be predicted to happen when plex was introduced."
"vote nofwiw i don't want to see funny hats in the game either.. i think there are more pressing concerns.."
"nodo not need this.. at all"
"no"
"no!"
"no."
"no"
"no!100% behind this, no micro transactions, the game should not be easier for richer people!"
"no!"
"cosmetic only.(and ugly ones at that :p)"
"no.originally i was going to vote cosmetic only - but after reading other's comments - it could very easily be a slippery slope. plex let's folks pretty much buy whatever they want ingame anyway. why muddy the waters more?"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noeve is supposed to be a harsh, brutal, universe. where the choices you make affect you, and those around you. with this, you have an option to buy your way out of a situation, so you don't have to live with the consequences of your decision."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no.ffs..."
"plex benefit players who buy them with isk. isk can easily be destroyed through ship losses, implant losses, etc. remaps can't be lost and offer benefits (more skill points) which are very unlikely to be lost since most pilots are good about keeping their clones updated. also allowing some pilots to have more frequent remaps than others violates the in-game reason for 1 remap/year (ie more than one will fry your brain). this is a sci-fi game and introducing game elements that don't agree with the back story ruins the game universe imo.no"
"no!!!!!"
"no. let's not ruin eve the way every other mmo has been ruined."
"cosmetic onlythere are already things you can do in eve that cost irl iskies, i'd support those being moved to being able to be done with a plex as an alternative payment method.they key here is simple; no unfair advantage should be awarded through micro transactions."
"nothe conversion $$$ -> plex -> isk is good enough. either you can do it with isk or you can't do it. point."
"no.as in \"**** no\"."
"no way.tl;dr: no"
"no.if you want a game to go downhill, introduce microtransactions."
"no"
"big noi pay my fee, i should get access to all content."
"no. terrible idea."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"a better question imoshould ccp introduce transactions that can only bet bought with real world $the only examples of this are character transfer fees, and potrait change fees. i do not support those because they are only available with $ ... plex does no good there.as soon as they allow plex for payment they open that transaction to any player to use their game play efforts to buy the same with isk. i find many isk making activities fun... i play the game partly for that purpose... if i could only pvp i wouldn't be playing the game. (but i'd also not be interested in the economy if pvp didnt give the mods and goods and industry chain value...and i i couldn't enjoy collecting kms the same way i collect isk)i would like an abilty to get re-maps sooner than once every 12 months. i do think that there should be a cost/benefit analysis otherwise attributes are pretty much worthless...having a cost in isk achieves that. my support for plex for remaps is a support fo a method for all players to get another game alternative. i also support a change to plex for character transfers and plex for portrain changes."
"no!just in case that you don't understand it."
"no, no, no, no, no, and no (one vote for each of my accounts)."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"yesp.s. t'amber i'm going to be writing my business (ba hons)dissertation on mmo business models: subscriptions versus micro-transactions, any information you have regarding micro-transactions and the eve community would be greatly welcomed, i will be posting questionnaires and asking for interviews from players at a later date, i would be grateful if you could mail me anything you have on this subject that could benefit me.regards,xadrik"
"cosmetic onlyi already pay my fee, so why would i need to pay more to access more content? no harm in cosmetics if people will pay for that, but anything affecting skill points, or the like, even access to limited edition ships, is a no no. plex needs no point system or other options for use."
"yesyou can currently buy anything in the game, including the subscription fee, for isk. you can buy isk with real world money (by buying a plex). so basically, if you have a few hundred dollars in real world money, you can buy anything in the game, including new characters, awesome ships, the best modules, faster training speed (from learning implants). hell if you wanted you could buy enough plex to aquire enough isk to buy allies (hire mercs). there is almost nothing in this game that you can't buy indirectly with real world money.i vote for buying remaps for plex (which you can aquire with in-game isk). hell, i even vote for being able to buy skillppoints for plex. you can already buy a high sp character with real world money legally (by buying plex and selling them for isk). the only difference is that you can have all the skillpoints you want on a character that you create instead of having to buy someone elses.but omg noobs might be able to get more sp than me! they already can. a guy that started yesterday can buy a bunch of plex and sell them for isk then go to the character bazarr and buy a 100m sp character. then you have a guy running around with 100m sp that started yesterday. big deal."
"no x2 accountsedit: in my vision of a utopian mmo there are no plex, gtc or character sales. however, i am aware that enforcing that is completely different ball game."
"nothis is a terrible terrible idea eve is fantastic but if they go the micro transaction model it will totally kill the game for me."
"no.does it need to be asked? probably not, will it be implemented? yes most likely. ccp is a business after all.../c"
"yes."
"no"
"noabsolutely no!"
"no... i am tempted to vote 'cosmetic only' but the very first item mentioned after saying it would only be things that don't give a player an advantage was remapping attributes. this is not cosmetic - it allows purchase of faster training more often than other people. i mean if they can't stick to their word even for the length of one interview..... do the math."
"no."
"cosmeticif people wish to pay ccp money that can be spent on fixing bugs in order to look slightly prettier (in game) then sure, why not.plex for custom paintjobs."
"no.because micro transactions tend to break games in the long run. it's only a small step from plex for remap to plex for sp."
"no way!!!!"
"no! absolutely no!"
"no"
"yes, because the argument for no is weak and fantastical."
"yes"
"yes/cosmeticsorry, i can't say \"yes\" or \"cosmetic\" because i'm somewhere in between.i don't care about remaps for a plex. i've been patient getting my guys up to 25mill sp, what do i care if somone wants to save a month or two while they do it ... i don't think \"i've played longer therefore i deserve more sp\" holds any weight either -- playing longer brings its own advantages. besides, you already can buy sp through the character bazaar.that said, i wouldn't want it to be wide open straight up plex (or isk) for sp. that would be going too far (imo).i really fail to see how allowing remaps is any more game breaking than allowing the purchase of isk (via plex). right now, you can buy the most expensive **** in the game if you're willing to pony up the cash. that seems far more offensive in terms of equality than getting a minor advantage on skill training.in my final analysis, if it means ccp earns a bit more then that is good for me since it means more development, etc. i hope, at least."
"no"
"no.eve should be subscription only. leave micro-transactions to dust.micro-transactions trivialize the gameplay, it has no place in a virtual universe like eve. eve should be as far removed from the real world as possible. who cares if other mmos are trying it out, forge your own path!ccp should think very very hard before starting down this path, i've played dozens of mmos, many of which were tarnished by micro-transactions."
"no"
"nothat stuff is for other games which are designed around it."
"nobut tbh, i fully expect them to go that route, down down deep till they reach hell (or the earths core). its the new flavour of mediocre games after all, and they don't want to be the \"dinosours\" right?good luck."
"no"
"no of course not are you people ******ed?...."
"tl;drcosmeticscosmetics, bigger skill queue (>24h), ...things that don't improve you in skill & pvp is fine (sp and ship stat improvements are a no-no)why i think yes is wrong:- there is nothing tempting if half of eve ends up being able to do everything after day one if they just throw enough cash at it.at least now every player is unique and skilled in a specific way, with the exception of the very highly skilled players, but they earned their versatility over the years.if you wanna be able to do much, just go buy a 100+ mil sp character,someone gains a character, someone loses character, overall character game balance stays the same.why i think no is wrong:- ccp will benefit financially, more money = better & faster game development in theory."
"no"
"nono nocosmetic only is a gateway to worse things. it's harmless in theory but how long before marketing comes up with incentive programs? oh wait a sec..."
"response: no,nein,iie,non....!!!!"
"no"
"no - cosmetic only"
"supported 100%"
"yes, old was much better."
"oh yess, please. missed the old ones by a few months, sadly."
"i would like to openly inform you suitonia that your attempts at \"de***ging\" dod have been successful! i was in conversation with a pilot that lost his scimitar to your righeous crusade of undocking in a t1 cruiser, getting into 1v1s, and when you recieved neutral rr, shooting your neutral rr pilots (this would end up giving her a gcc and transferred that to whoever was repping her, popping both their ships via concord). this pilot lamented that your actions wrecked his interest and capacity to play eve as he had lost his ship and so his capacity to earn isk. he is now leaving and will most likely biomass his toon.great job at reducing the player count of the game we are each trying to enjoy in our own way."
"what should happen1. neutral rr reps an agressed wartarget2. neutral rr is clearly no longer neutral, so the previously neutral player gets a personal one sided wardec on their hands (meaning that he appears flasy read as if he stole something) for a week. during this week they other corp may kill the \"neutral\" rr as many times as they like. if the other wardec ends the repper is still red blinky for the duration of the week. if the repper does more repping during the week the week timer is reset."
"great ideas, hope this gets thrown in as i put out a lot of courier contracts."
"i'm all for making a game look more pretty and what not for the pc but for some users like myself who run eve from their laptop that only has support for shader model 2.0 this is going to cause some serious problems. i propose we keep the current shader model support but add more options for shaders."
"or you could buy a computer/upgrade your graphics card from something that is 7+ years old and don't use the excuse that it'll effect laptop users. the internal cards/mobos for laptops support shader 3.0 as of the gmax3000's"
"son, it's time for you to man up, stop being the one guy who is always holding everyone back and just take one for the team by spending a few bucks on an upgrade. it's still months before the actual change is upon us, so even minor savings during that period will allow you to easily upgrade to a compatible system. your current system is ancient, so even the cheapest modern model should be a decent upgrade in almost all aspects."
"you've had 7 years to save up 200 bucks and buy a laptop that isnt nearly a decade old. get over it bud."
"keeping the minimum low isn't holding anyone back, ccp is still capable of adding more to the graphics while leaving the minimum just that minimum. i bought this laptop 3 years ago, also shader model 3.0 hasn't even been out for 7 years let alone put onto average laptop graphic cards being sold when it was released.also i'm not sure if any of you read after the title but i stated i am on a laptop which can't be upgraded for a 'few bucks'. if i used my desktop for gaming i couldn't care less about dishing out for an upgrade that would run me around 20$ but to upgrade to continue playing is going to be a bit expensive. for those of you who want shader 3.0 why not state why we should make it the minimum when ccp isn't pushing any new graphics out that actually require shader 3.0 hardware, they can easily make that on the higher settings instead of forcing it to be the minimum. they could also push the high settings to medium, medium to low, and low to gone. make the high settings use shader model 3.0 required things instead. i'd be more understanding if there was something being pushed out that they absolutely had to use shader model 3.0 related things."
"i hear hello kitty island adventure still uses the intial shader model release."
"another announcement today to protect our accounts, and the only tool we are given is the antiquated password with the recommendation to change it often. please support this topic and let ccp know we need better tools to help us protect our accounts."
"yes, i pay quite a bit for my two toons. i dont want to loose it just like that.+1"
"like.but please, dont sell them via the eve store where you have to pay ~30 $ shipment costs for a 10x10 minmatar sticker. i especially like the smartphone app idea."
"if u wanna remap - just make a \"pay 400 mio isk here for remap\" and not a \"please insert plex here\" button.if u implement this ... \"feature\" it will not only crash the plex-market - but it will take out plex (intended to trade playtime for isk - and vica verca) to $$$ for faster skilling (1-month cycle of remaping 1 year char with sp normaly a 2 year char will have without sticking to any skillplan)./signed & regards"
"definetly \"no\" to anything \"pay with plex\" !first a \"vanity\" golden necklace for the avatar, then a special implant \"just for one plex\".the missing of a \"item shop\" is what makes eve better then much out there, do not throw away this.resist the beginnings!i would go fine with a \"remap for isk\" but not \"for plex\". thanks for reading, ccp."
"wtf ccp are you crazy???"
"no"
"supportedmicropayments, even if only cosmetic, create a two class community."
"what the **** are you people on about? what else in the game can't you already buy with rl cash other than remaps?"
"wtf ccp?"
"don't be doing it wrong, ccp!"
"this"
"i haven't posted on the forums in ages but this definitely needs everyone's support."
"hi,first time poster here.introducing micropayments to eve online is definitely wrong.it starts with plex for remap, then bling bling for incarna clothes."
"wtf ccp???"
"nonot for plex only. i would be okay if a remap would cost isk. but not only with a plex. that is just milking the players and making our beloved eve-online a cash cow. we all know how that ends."
"no. no. no."
"unique selling proposition - google it."
"no thanks."
"no to plex for remaps and a general no to micro payment."
"a line you shouldnt cross ccp"
"after reading everything that i could find about this i've come to the conclusion that the majority of the protest is either based on fear of change, fear that someone out there may gain a slight advantage on them and therefore they are being treated unfairly, or it is simply the omg! stampede! factor where everyone gets caught up in the push."
"you'll not be able to afford when this comes in, gtc / plex prices are already rising, folk aren't taking less than 700 mil for a gtc right now and that's only going to a lot worse"
"+1 support"
"supported.bring it on. let people throw their money away."
"huh, so'lar wynde, jon'do smith, f'elch aren't a'lts o'f e'ach o'ther at'all eh ?"
"not supported"
"jon'do is a member of my alliance, the other, f'elch, i've never met. just because the names have an apostrophe in them doesn't automatically make them alts. i've seen hundreds of such names so by your reasoning, they must belong to someone with a huge bank account and a computer complex to multibox them all."
"lmfao can i join the alt mega guy?!edit - forgot the support"
"no, thums down, .... just no. plenty of reasons have been given by plenty of players.this looks to much like a stepping stone to more plex transactions we do not want. ccp should spend their time fixing problems rather than making more! i would make a proposal for someone in the csm to slap the one at ccp who came up with this crappy idea though."
"it is such a burden being surrounded by people who don't understand that, thank you for your compassion, if only more people could recognize how difficult their ignorance makes the world."
"supported."
"i would add a subsystem for gas mining, as you need gas to make t3 ships, so this would be a perfect wh miner., maybe allow it mine gas like a hulk, ad have a better cycle time for ice or a better survivability rate as was already said. or you make it a normal ship and you need the subsystems to fit the ice or strip miners.. hmm anyway i like it"
"any more comments?"
"c"
"5 instead of 6 launchers, 3 instead of 4 bcs, lack of fuel catalyst, cap regeneration matrix instead of augmented cap reservoir, and only 1 t1 rigor instead of 3 t2 are all generally considered failfit for missioning. you get ~600 dps with full set of +5% implants and large exp radius furys, when it should have been ~900, while having the small exp radius to one-hit down to elite frig rats every ~3 seconds without waiting for painter to cycle.the tengu popping method those days isn't at undock but redock. undock gank can easily be avoided by insta-undock bm. they have a few bs wait offstation in line with a high traffic gate, and shoot tengus that come right out of warp to a standstill, one second before it disappears into station. because of the docking process, once the \"your ship is being towed into station\" message comes up, you no longer have control over ship to activate any mods or change direction, while almost standing still.the only way around it is to actually survive a gank without relaying on transversal or activating mods, meaning a high ehp passive setup used to tank lvl5s. the problem is it gets similarly pathetic dps as your failfit cited here, so no serious mission runner would use it to blitz lvl4s. failfitting your tengu to this point, or even to a lesser point by modifying a cookie cutter optimal missioning fit with em resist instead of mission specific kinetic resist, and 4th (and last) low with dc instead of bcs means slower missions compared to a cheaper and harder to gank bs. then there is no reason to fly a tengu at all."
"you'll never get rid of all suicide gankers & greifers. you will, however, be able to cut down significantly if there was a system of infractions in high security space. the first time you gank someone, it might be the usual (sans insurance payout of course). you get a security ratings hit, and concord takes you out.each time you aggro someone in highsec, you get a longer aggro timer (days & then weeks, and then months). if you reach full blown outlaw status, anyone in system can blow you up and get the 20mil bounty that concord has placed on your head.a way to reduce your security rating is to wait an allotted time and the infractions will go off your record. also, raise your security status. infractions would still be on your record though, even if they're not active, and even if you have a great security status again.this forces the outlaws into lowsec where they belong, however there would still be gankers that do it for the thrill."
"it's called risk vs reward, especially since 600 dps is more than enough to do any lvl 4. u wanna be lazy and greedy for more rewards, fine--deal with the risks. see how that works?the same reason u can't control your ship is also the same reason they can't shoot u--it's being brought into the station and can't be targeted. try to gain some perspective and learn the game for once. again, all u have to do is settle for a little less dps and a little more time spent for that precious peace of mind with 100% safety u obviously value so dearly. but if 600 dps is still so agonizingly unbearable to u, then go ahead, be greedy, and ignore risk vs reward. it's your tengu and your loss."
"i foresee ac macharials and vargurs becoming fotm if this gets passed.what the hell, i'll support it, i like minmatar ships."
"this would make gallente blaster boats more useful."
"this is why you don't rebalance races with damage buffs when other things make more sense. but someone at ccp decide the massive boost to projectiles dps made sense, so balances like these seem to favor one race over another. however, it does make sense that mwd's use less cap for bs. even with this change, it's unlikely there will be any bs platform that would be totally cap stable with an mwd on without the trade off of at least 2-3 slots that would normally be used for something more combat oriented. i'd say that's a fair trade off."
"to prevent the above posters problem, have it so you can't do it while you have agression, just like you can't use gates. this would be in addition to a timer."
"eve chronicle: the vampire- guy's got a fancy new drone in his cargo bay.- pirates tell him to jet can it, but he decides to load it into the drone bay instead, and launches it into combat.- drone pewpew's them to death.first off, i want this drone already. =)secondly, i'd love to see a reload ability, as well as a damage display and possibly even repair ability in the drone bay.as for some of these suggested trade-offs, i don't agree with cap cost. drones are drones because they don't use cap. it's not like they need gassed up before leaving. and i could see a reloading timer like guns and such, but not something that takes all day."
"hey,first off, i am pretty sure that this might have already been discussed, but i was unable to find any thread that had the stuff i wanted to propose, so i am doing a new proposal for it, partially based on a '09 proposal.if there is already a thread like this (or it is in the csm backlog), please let me know.now, the proposals:current situation:i want to produce from a blueprint / invent something / research something / do any s&i operation with a blueprint. i rightclick the blueprint, select the option and have to click on a button to bring up the available slots. there i can select the slot i want to use (quick select by double clicking at least skips the additional button click to accept the selection). now, if you are doing this for 10 production and 10 invention jobs, its a pain.proposal one:auto-select the slot with the shortest queue, show the queue length next to the queue id. but leave the button for people who want to take a specific queue or want to use remote research on a pos.proposal two:bulk operations. let me select multiple blueprints and as long as they are identical (like: 10x invulnerability field ii blueprint for production or 10x ballistic control system i blueprint for invention, bonus points for non-identical blueprints for production), let me install multiple jobs at the same time (each using the slot with the shortest queue ofc). it is already possible to shift-select multiple jobs and deliver them, so let us place them in bulk, too, please.yes, these are small things, but at least proposal one should not take too long to implement. and it would make life a lot easier for the industry guys out there. ofc there are a lot of other things that could be improved with s&i (seeing a difference between a bpo and a bpc without rightclick -> \"show info\" anyone? ), but hey, its a start, right?delagos"
"this has been suggested many times. i posted a thread suggesting this 6 months+ ago, and it's not like i was the first person to think of it. i believe that a revamp of the s&i ui was promised in quantum rise, which was about two years ago.but then ccp decided they could make more money if they would take the better part of their devs and put them on vampires and console games.so this isn't happening for at least a year, by which time it probably will have been suggested another half dozen times.good try, though. a for effort, supported, etc."
"proposal:character transfers and all other ccp offered alternatives to enhance players game experiences should be available in a way that allows payment with in game assets as a way of getting that benefit.pros:all players (with time to play the game) could avail themselves of a tool(s) that allows flexibility and possible enhancement to their game play choices , regardless of their relative real world economic situation. players would be able to chose to realize the isk value of some of their characters and use those funds for the purchase of differently skilled characters or for use to purchase other in-game assets without the out of game cost the same way that those willing to pay additional real world money to achieve.the use of plex as price for service is beneficial because it is a flexible cost item that mirrors ebs and flows of the economy and by its intrinsic value (the ability to use another 3 players for 1 month) is something that has, and will retain, a high opportunity cost to forgo. character transfer should continue to have a high associated cost to deter frequent changes in ownership that detract from the immersion and role-playing advantages of tie-ing a real person to character and the nature of the in-game cost of plex achieves this.there is a high rate associated number of customer service hours associated on average with each character transfer (high incidence of hacked accounts, unfamiliar procedure for players etc). retiring 1 unit of pre-paid game time per transfer will at least show an accounting profit to ccp and continue some tie requiring that overtime some extra real $ will come in per each transfer.cons:transfers of characters will initially increase to a higher future plateau rate. in general, frequent characters transfers can situation ally detract from game immersion and social bonds between players.players with 10s of billions of investable capital will have a new alternative to scale their trading activities and become still richer without themselves infusing cash into the game and will have an advantage or at least crowd out those currently involved in that game aspect as a means of achieving a higher $ to isk exchange rate than buying gtcs and selling plex . those players that need to use some $ to purchase isk every few months to fund pvp losses would have an alternative taken from them and may lose incremental interest in the game.commentaryif players are offered a growing number of features only available by additional payments on top of monthly subscription costs there could be large game-play and immersion breaking results.allowing the use of isk to pay for transfers via the variable exchange rate involved with buying plex would both send a message from ccp that all game play enhancements will be earnable in game while still giving ccp some external accounting based revenue by retiring future paid game time in return for the high costumer service hours associated on average with the character transfer process."
"hey hoeach of you that already has been off to sisi to check new character creation system have spotted that there is no sliders available for morhping the face. istead you just pull wholes in your face.with this post i'm requesting from ccp to add sliders for this feature as it will be more convinient during character creation process and will allow to create nicer avatars.if you agree with this idea, when simply give your support to this idea.best regardsmystiq"
"haha, maybe you missed the part where a ccp dev said \"we dont want sliders, we want you to feel like youre sculping your character\""
"i disagree, sliders seem outdated and awkward to use. like controlling a robot arm that's holding a paintbrush rather than using your own hands.though if they do put sliders back in i would suggest keeping the sculpting option too, for those who like it."
"well ok, i think the idea is solid, keep the sliders, and also the sculpting! i think that will give people more choice, and you don't wanna **** anyone off!-bp"
"and while you're at it post this in test server feedback where it belongs!"
"i propose to fire everyone at ccp and outsource the support to people who might not understand what we are saying but atleast they are there to respond to help calls. i also vote to ban tweetfleet and all these other stupid press releases thus forcing them to become petition staff so that there is a few more than 3 people answering petitions over weeks of time. remember to check the box if you agree with me!it's time for the players to get ahead for once. and double time for ccp to get blanks out of blanks and help the players."
"hellz to the yeahz^^^"
"if your going to troll... at least bother to use your fraking head.outsourcing means it will end up in some 3rd world country who can't speak a lick of english and would follow a damn script and not use that grey matter that people call a brain.-10/10 troll.if they broke it... they sure as hell can fix it."
"where's the \"donate t2 laser ammo for good\"or the \"buy neural remap with cargo expanders\"or even the \"breaking news: kestrel wt carrying 74 janitors dies outside jita 4-4\""
"thats gonna be super popular pvp ship, large drone bay, drake like tank, bs size comon ! :)"
"i like this, it would be good in highsec and nullsec for miners.large cargo, tank, but low yeild for the same skills as the hulk ( throw in some battleship skills too maybe)20k cargo is fine if u only have maybe 2 strips and little mining bonus 300 drone cargo might be too much.why restrict to low/nulsec? makes no sense, hulkageddon is a player event not a ccp thing it be so slow at mining that most miners wont use it and hulkageddon will still get tons of kills."
"i hadent done the math but yeah 57-58% sounds anbout right to me, and yes i see a need from somethign to be done to repair the market value of ice and adding something to use ice fuel would work. though im not sure what that could be.i suppose something new or increased useage on things already in game ,... or perhapse a mix of the 2. but whatever i can support this simply as somethign needs done and i havent seen anyone else proposing anything."
"there has been a plethora of improvements to the game over the years to a various degrees of success. one of major ones was introduction of remaps. clearly it removed certain depth from the game and made the whole mechanics easier. i think the following pending changes should be urgently implemented. the order in which the changes are listed indicate the timeframe, the further down the list the novelty is placed - the further down the timeframe novelty should be implemented. so here it is - without further adue, what should happen to eve, please do show your support: plex for remap plex for sp remap plex used to purchase sp, ships, virtual underwear, prostitues and drugs complete removal of learning skills removal of attributes alltogether all characters get all level 5 skills from the start all characters get 5 of each ship in eve from the start includin capitals, jovians and gm ships all characters become supergods and kill themselves because there existence is pointless eve servers officially decomissioned and used as **** storage onwards. - ???- profitplease vote yes on those changes - encourage ccp not to become a dinosaur."
"u mad, brah?"
"i heartily endorse this product and/or service."
"in after captain."
"supported"
"yes?"
"maybe."
"i am indifferent."
"there is no content in the op."
"no.also, this is not a new idea."
"not totally their fault ofc, but they haven't been exactly all up in arms about it either. as supposedly \"representatives of the player base\" sometimes a more firm/vocal stance towards ccp's \"workings\" couldn't hurt imo. after all, the csm is somewhat of a \"public\" institution... or was supposed to be one at its inception..."
"which still does nothing to stop a player podding himself with an alt and claiming the cash."
"what i don't understand is that jump and cyno effects has been proposed over a year ago and has 25 pages of support? and its not even indexed yet?"
"supported. make them worth the investment in time and isk."
"the only boost they really need is the ability to warp while cloaked; keep in mind they are paper thin, so they're not really overpowered.edit: they do need a longer jump range and a bigger fuel bay, as for the covert ops cloak, it wouldn't hurt to give it a try honestly, worse case scenario, if it becomes over powered they can just change a few numbers around and nerf it again..."
"no is my vote.i'd probably not mind cosmetic only that much though tbh.if they would start doing it like with the yes option, it might make me quit."
"no"
"no"
"no.in fact, absolutely no."
"no"
"no!"
"no. no. no. if ccp do this, i will quit."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"hell \"no\""
"yesseriously t'amber, i am surprised at how much you are twisting ccp's words to push your own agenda here, very unlike you. everyone is thinking this is the end of the game when in fact, it is evolving. it is time to separate the men from the boys and to be honest, this is a good start. there are casual gamers in eve and then there are those who are serious about it and this allows them to be able to distinguish that. if it is via certain clothing, medals, ships, you name it, it should be allowed.all other mmo's are going by this model and ccp is wise to not be left behind like some dinosaur. it is business and an appropriate move. it is time to evolve people, this is not the atari 2600 anymore, time to get with the times already.for those poor people. you already get free expansions. if you are not super terrible at this game, you can make enough isk to play for free anyways. what is your problem?! what do you want? the rich to pay you to play or something? so sorry, but welcome to life. adapt or die already.micro-transactions? plex for remap is not a micro-transaction anyways. it is an in-game item traded for another in-game mechanic. you could blow up an unlucky cyno kestrel and viola, you have seventy-four neural remaps. how much real money did you pay for that? none!so many butt hurt bitter vets worried about younger players having a change. you super elitist pricks need to chill out and let others players have fun. it is a game, it should be fun."
"no"
"nonohell nonotnonixnay on the ansactionstra!"
"same."
"i don't know whether you're an alt, a troll, or just that naive. i'd have to guess though, by your casual and obvious misrepresentation of in-game knowledge that you're a troll.for the wider audience, the argument isn't about the possibility of newcomers catching up with veteran players. ccp has all ready started to take actions to help newcomers, and they have recieved much less resistance than this. the revamping of the character creation, the double training time to new players, and the ongoing possibility of removing the barrier of training skills. all of these serve better to level the playing field between new and old.honestly, i don't see what the major offense is in veteran players having some leeway is anyways. beyond the early initial period of training the base fitting and weaponry skills up, the primary advantage of veterancy is variety instead of sheer power. you don't spend that much more time in this game getting skilled up than you do getting leveled and geared in any other mmo i've played, which are many in number.no, the primary concern with this move is the possible repercussions down the line. micro-transactions rarely stop at the first step. plex-for-remap all ready gives a much more tangible benefit than would be considered a vanity item. people are legitimately concerned that they or their organization would be unable to compete due to the influence of real world income, a factor that many people have very little control over.the fact that people with more free-time than income can pay for their account is nice. the ability for a person with more income than free-time can afford to buy useful ships in game is relatively benign.the idea my competition might be able to simply buy his way to victory in the future through micro-transactions is insulting. this is still a game, and one that i pay to play. real world income shouldn't dictate any measure of success in an environment that is supposed to be cathartic."
"noeither you charge monthly or for items. not both."
"no.in the day when you'll start selling sp related stuff i'll quit eve."
"short answer: nolong answer: nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo..."
"no. the thread is filled with numerous sound and well stated reasons why it's a bad idea to let people buy things that might give them an advantage. let us hopeccp listens, eh?"
"no no no no no no no no no no no no!dammit ccp are you just trying to make us all hate your decisions?"
"no!"
"nei. <-- icelandic for \"no.\"unfortunately my decision to leave the game has already been made. is it because of this? some, but mostly with other things that are broken in the game. this topic is not even in my top five reasons for leaving the game, but it is a contributing factor. my last account expires within a couple hours of this post i believe.now i am not going to sit here and split hairs over what is considered a micro-transaction or not, or how long real money has affected things outside of the normal subscription fee. i will simply state that i do not like to play games that openly embrace it like this game is heading.- first plex was introduced: um, ok.. - secondly was after a good while was the ability to move them, thus opening the door for them to be destroyed and it being free money for ccp: ugg, this is not going in a good direction.. - thirdly is ccp saying they want micro-transactions for cosmetic only and the first thing is not cosmetic at all: ok well thats the final nail in the coffin for me.. - fourthly: if their definition of cosmetic only micro-transaction is not cosmetic only, what will the definition of non-cosmetic only be when they stay on this path? \"introducing unique ships now available starting for $19.99!time to show off your stuff with uber ships like the grievous tempest - instead of +5% bonuses it has +10%show your enemies that you are better than them and a there is no such thing is all players were created equal!\"i like playing games where everyone is measured on determination and skill. everyone pvp's against everyones bank account all day long in real life. i don't want to come home and play a game where i have to do it there as well.i spent a good long while sticking with the game hoping that specific issues would be addressed and kept holding onto the dream that ccp would fix them. things like fleet fights. currently calling people primary and secondary is the most efficient way to do combat, 10 people or 1,000. that is a very boring and unimaginative way to play. there is no strategy in that. i am not flaming people for fighting like that because currently, it is the best way to fight. other things like low sec and sov in 0.0. they simply are just bleh.some of you say i won't find a better mmo out there so me leaving is a bad decision. i don't have fun playing the game anymore. just because there is no real competition for eve right now in serious spaceship business does not mean i have to keep throwing money at ccp. i am perfectly content with leaving it in my bank.as it stands the ccp bean counters only gauge how well they are doing is:subscription paid = yes, i like your game.subscription not paid = no, i don't like your game.flame if you want, i voted \"no\" on all my accounts. i will vote yes again when the game is appealing again ccp. i truly hope it happens some time soon before i lose 100% interest in this game. i will check back on the forums every few months or so and monitor how things are from the players point of view. not from what ccp says in hyped up expansions that fail to deliver on almost all fronts."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi do see the remap for plex as cosmetic, btw."
"no."
"def noit is a practice that will eventually ruin the entire game as did in many mmo in the past."
"noforget everything about microtransactions for this game."
"absolutely ....... no !!!"
"a huge noooooooo"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no! no!ccp i hope u will not do it because i know a lot of online games where something like this destroy the game feeling. in eve, are a lot of people like students, or people who are out of work, who can be proud of their reached things. but if then an 15 years old kiddi who plays maybe for 6 months and blow an 2 year old char out of space, just because he has rich parents, then i will leave eve, and i think im not the only one.if ccp need money maybe things like, coulored ships, or named station would be better, because such little things would a lot of people use, and it would save fairness.at last: sry for my grammar"
"no cosmetic only"
"<inser witty comment with no answer here>"
"no cosmetic only"
"no cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no.although i'm almost past caring now."
"no no no"
"i just started the game. i dont wonna see any microtransactionsi vote no"
".....no....."
"i can go with cosmetics but nothing more than this"
"def noooooooooooooooo"
"no!take 1$ or 2$ more for subscription but keep the realworld out!"
"yes to plex (if can be bought with isk) for skill remaps, thank you."
"no"
"no"
"for what it's worth: no"
"no! my god no..."
"voting a big fat no!"
"no"
"no."
"no.p2w might be the current trend but id rather not see eve go this way.."
"no"
"hell no"
"no"
"no !"
"this"
"no"
"cosmetics only"
"yes!what's wrong with you people?i look forward to blowing up stuff that someone has paid out-of-game real life cash for. i though you people like tears. i was wrong.mr epeen"
"no!"
"no."
"no"
"no.microtransactions lead to greed. greed leads to nge."
"no.the trade-off would be an increase in short-term cash flow to ccp against long-term quality/viability of the game."
"no"
"yesi am a noob to eve, i come from another mmo that used micropayments that massivly improved your game..i stoped playing said game because they got greedy got money obsessed things started costing alot!!so im all for paying to enhance my game and make it more enjoyable as long as they dont get greedy..+10 implants for real money only (not buyable with isk) im all for :)"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no to any form of microtransactions."
"no... plex is enough"
"the players say no, but players' wallets say yes. hilarious."
"oh gawd no."
"no"
"no"
"no, too. hope corpmates catch up here, too!"
"no"
"no"
"yesas long as it is for sp only"
"dear fuck no"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"yes to everything but direct sp purchasing.the reasons that other games microtransactions suck is when they offer something you can only buy with money."
"no"
"no."
"no or cosmetic only"
"noit's just not a good idea!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.yea spend $2 on ur pink ship w/ebut dont be spending $100 to buy a titan ( good god immagine the market)"
"no!ebenezer scrooge new ccp ceo?"
"cosmetic only"
"noisk for dollars ripped the heart out the game already, free skills for dollars via microtransaction neutral remapping will be the end of it as far as i'm concerned."
"vote yeswot ?im willing to pay for ( quicker ) training / remaps"
"nonot even cosmetic stuff except what we already have.from the recent interview, it's clear that ccp has no idea what 'cosmetic only' means.what's more, i worry now that incarna is going to have a heavy microtransaction model, and that would be a terrible waste of many years of work - and my subscription money. i'm actually willing to give ccp the benefit of the doubt that incarna will be something special - but if i have to pay to be part of it, it will be meaningless to me.any extra features in the game should be balanced and based on isk, character skills, player skills and time."
"noplex is a necessary evil, this is not necessary, and it's still a bad bad thing.the microtransactions they plan better not be a plan to screw up what hope there is for incarna by giving us a free expansion with their hands out for our cash."
"no"
"no!, the game has been setup in a way that players, have to make them selves better, not use plex to make an instacharacter. leave the game as it is"
"no leave the game alone!"
"no!no!no! trade plex for skills, will undermine everything that other players have worked so damn hard for"
"no"
"yes.i cannot in good conscience vote \"no,\" when i'm already playing a game that makes buying isk and characters a legal option through plex.the floodgate was opened long ago."
"no"
"no - only over my dead body!(uhm, isn't it already a dead body i'm using as capsule pilot?)"
"no.although in principle i have no problem with people paying for cosmetic changes, i know that the development of these items will take place at the expense of the game's features."
"no.just to make it clear..no.for those at ccp that need an image:please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"heck no!"
"noi though that was what dust was for anyhow."
"no"
"noif ccp hadn't repeatedly shown itself to be openly antagonistic to the wishes of its subscribers i would vote cosmetic only, but ccp doesn't have the sense or integrity to stop there."
"no"
"noespecially no for skillpoints"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"yes.why not, we already have an optional micro transaction system in game; it's called plex. i could pay 29.95 for 2 plex, which i can sell for 700-800m (ish) that i could then use to buy a carrier off the market. which essentially means i paid 29.95 for a carrier. not to mention that i could do the same and buy a character off the character bazaar, which is the same as buying skill points or remapping.nobody seems to have a problem with any of that. but put a label on it like \"micro transaction\" and everyone is up in arms."
"no! no! no! and agian, no!doing so would make this game to much like world of warcraft. if we wantyed soemthing that could easily be fulfilled in 2 months time, we would go to wow or startrek online. the people that actualy liek this game, and liek to spend tiem playing this game, love the complexity, and installing microtransactions will deplete the complexity aboundantly.microtransactions is just a bad idea..."
"agreed, they need to focus more on the csm's hot list, and less on new features."
"more pages!"
"the bubble effect for gates, jump bridges, even wormholes is fine. but when a cap jumps, and the sky is being torn open, and people see all those cones from the caps dropping on the field, you knew something nasty is coming. now when people see a bunch of caps falling on the field with some small cheap bubble effect, its not quite as impressive... if the developers don't like the old effect make something similar to the old effect but much more detailed and epic. if they even wanna add the lightening effect with the bubble i won't mind, just bring back the lightening flashes.edited to add support"
"a second middle slot on retribution would be nice :))i support!"
"if the developers of eve are listening, i would like to say, i regret picking gallente, i may even quit playing eve because i wasted so much time training my toon in gallente skills. perhaps one day everyone will realize as i have, as the years go by, that they don't really care about are requests, and only about new features that will attract new customers. old customer requests aren't worth investing time into, as they are already paying customers. if only the blasters and rails were fixed, a small change like that would make a lot of customers happy, including myself...fly safe, not sorry..."
"but how much tank do you have on the mega then?i think it have a very poor tank."
"supported. the first time i saw a carrier... i had read about how big they were supposed to be, and then i saw one and i was like: that's it??carriers and dreads imo could be a bit larger.leave the hyperion and rokh's sizes alone though please."
"if supporting 2.0 take a lot of dev time, then get rid of it...although maybe it's possible to keep supporting interior station graphics for it? would allow me to keep using this ****ty laptop to change skills when i'm not at home, and since most graphics are in actual space, it shouldn't take much. i'm not too bothered about it though."
"shader model 3.0 has been supported since the geforce 6 series, which was released in 2004.intel gma x3000 has been on the market for laptop gfx since 2006.its almost 2011.your point is invalid."
"like stated in the dev blog:the why:because they plan on putting in new graphic features, and all those features would have to be developed twice.. once for shader 3, once for shader 2, and all that for all the future graphics (incarna pops to mind)i hated the last graphics update of eve because since they removed \"classic client\" i cant play on my netbook any morethis whole thing is actualy the best feature of eve, if you bought any new game right now, you would expect requirements far greater than eve's... the drawvack is that as eve develops you have to update.so to anyone whining:get a new pc or stop playing pc games... that's the rule for all games, including eve"
"they have said why they are doing it, so of course because you don't like it you have to complain. the \"man up\" comment is apt. i would say die in a fire (in game of course), but your computer would fail to render that properlyin all seriousness, a laptop costing < $1000aud (and therefore $1000 usd) would run eve fine when they make this change.start putting $20 bucks a week and you'll have enough saved by the time it comes out!!!"
"i propose that ccp chisel graphics onto stone tablets and mail them to my house because i just don't want to upgrade to the fancy new technology you guys use."
"i demand to play eve via smoke signals."
"the lag in jita would be craaaazyyyy"
"eve has an account hacking problem because of all the 3rd party work that goes into the game. extra security on accounts seems very appropriate in this case."
"yes, implement it. yes, make it optional.if you make it, i will buy it.the ones mailed out by blizzard for world of warcraft have the blizzard logo on them, so they can't be mistaken for anything else unless one is blind. of course, if one is blind, then that raises more fundamental usability issues with the game, itself. it should be a simple matter to have eve online rsa devices be manufactured with the ccp logo."
"supported.i would love to have a complimentary and functional eve-online key chain!"
"supported. former wow player, and i like this system. very few drawbacks to implementing this and the added (optional!) security is wonderful."
"no way jose.."
"no no no"
"was zee fff?? nein!"
"if this happens then the next step is state issue ships for cash or other stuff so i say ccp is getting greedy. no to plex remap and no to shops in eve!!!"
"well...plex for a remap isnt a bad thing.its not like they get a massive advantage. rich people irl and in games would have great advantage u can buy plex's off the market, which will drive the price up more but who cares it will readjust as with all item changes.pros: * there won't be a new ccp mechanic that allows some players to benefit more ingame than others* people with more money can buy and sell plex ingame and get an advantage already * ccp has more plex to sell * people can buy characters with isk * this feature could possibly help fixing skill messups and lazynesscons: * real money trading happens regardlessthis is the real pro's vs con's"
"supported"
"i propose we incorporate the same restrictions for creating new topics and replying to topic as in caod.ie. no npc corps, excluding militiascorp sizes, and posting with your mains.this will stop a wide variety of dumb threads that get started. well not really but it will cut out a lot of trash topics from being posted."
"no it won't."
"/not supported!unfortunatly a lot of things need to be posted for the good of the comunity. if you had to post with your main, there could be a lot of back lash from the corp/alliance you are in. also from blues.i do a lot of balancing post for the best of the game. a lot of people who exploit unbalanced stuff would hurt the corp i am in and my friends so it would cause people to keep quite instead of speaking the truth. when everything was all about nano people were afraid to speak out against it. there was even an alliance that exploited it day in and day out because they could not get the numbers to face their enemy face to face in an even match. so they exploited non-stop. the community was able to finally get ccp to fix the problem. that alliance virtually self imploded on the spot because they forgot how to pvp with everything else.this would be a dangerous path and a no win situation for all. with npc alts people can post about bugs and unbalanced stuff and not worry about getting the sharp end of a stick from those who exploit such things.if you don't like the forums, no one is forcing you to read them. gobacktoworldofwarcraft!"
"well it wont stop all of them, but more annoying ones."
"i fixed it for you...p.s. supported"
"but then i'd have to go spend a million isk and form my own corp...bah. supported."
"i lol'd"
"i think just restricting it to posting with the oldest/highest sp'ed toon on the account would be a win for the boards general sanity."
"i made a proposal that was exactly that. when posting it uses the character on the account with the highest skill points only. this was meet with much hatred and flaming and it sank to the bottom of assembly hall. only the trolls would hate such a change on the forums to be honest. i think i posted it with marlona sky but can't seem to dig it up. if you find it and it is not more than 90 days old, feel free to give it a thumbs up or make a new one.the forum landscape would become infinity better if that change went thru."
"as son as you can come up with a definition of main that we can all agree on, i'll support this.no, i'm serious. i would love to have some rules applied to posting in ah, but how does one define your main character?"
"remember when ccp reimbursed us with skill points? they assigned the skill points to the character on each acct that had the highest sp total. if there was a way to apply that to the forums, or as a secondary measure most time in game.but really what the point of this is to clean up a.h. alt post and unnecessary topics from alts, and killing the supports from alts. 1 account + 3 chars = 3 supports."
"this post pretty much sold me on this idea. supported."
"dear god yes"
"i think the real problem is that this forum isn't really suited to the current garbage forum software.the purpose of the forum is to vet and discuss ideas for game improvements. like f&i forum with voting. the problems with the current implementation include:lots of duplicate/overlapping postsno way to sort by most popular or supported threads/ideasno way to vote downif the forum were structured more like an ideascale/reddit forum instead of the steaming pile of outdated garbage that it currently is, it'd be less of an issue when people post nonsense (their ideas get downvoted and hidden)"
"no and no. why should we be forced to 'out' our main(s) in order to submit a proposal? because there are crappy ones or troll bait that people keep replying to? because some pathetic people keep trying to get attention by screaming 'look at me' with poorly crafted rant/proposals?the forums are allegedly going to get reworked and probably there will be tools to ignore/hide characters/threads you don't want to seem assuming the new forums don't become a police state 'worship ccp' or get banned the 'problem' solves it self."
"if you had bothered to read my second post alt posting allows for more supports than actually exists. 1 account can create 3 supports for one thread. which totally skews the number of people actually supporting the topic.also if a troll cant hide behind an alt in the assembly hall, it will not try to troll, or make troll bait topics. in a sense it would clean up this forum of a lot of dumb topics created by alts.ps post with your main."
"not supported"
"thanks for the support kinta. would you do me a favor though... edit your post and tick the support checkbox.if any of you others who have supported this come back to read the comments, pleae do likewise...greken?crazy katienicienduke hamilton1apollo gabrielthanks"
"1.0"
"hell yes!"
"supported"
"why not a a sub capital mining ship instead, that outmine the hulk, similar to orca, but that can mine instead of just sitting, waiting to be full. something like with 5 strip miners, or sub capitals mining lasers???"
"can't we just lock him in caod?"
"i can't restrain myself anymore from supporting this."
"naturally supported"
"nothing to see here.... move along"
"while there's so many other's i'd love to apply this to as well (including myself)...his level of stupid has impressed."
"page 5 you say, surrely not"
"i demand that ccp check and make sure chromo effect (a.k.a emo tj) properly filled out this form and returned it. if so, please review the form again."
"you know what, screw you guys. i take precious time out of my schedule to help with this game and all i get is flamed and trolled. and for what? i don't get paid to do this. i volunteer my time to help you and you spit in my face. ccp leaves this thread open and locks all of mine. it is obvious they pick and choose when to follow forum rules and when to turn a blind eye. the only conclusion is that the op is an alt of a ccp employee. so its either shadow or applebabe. hippocrits. going to reroll a new alt and use lame ass normal type so you unapreaciative ****s actually read my post for what they are worth and not focus on a single ship loss from ages ago.peace ****ers."
"confirming i am also a ccp employee alt.why don't you move on to greener pastures where the genius in every of your brain farts is appreciated?"
"holy crap! epic rage is epic! you can change your avatar, you can change your name. hell, you can even change the annoying way you type. but you will always be the guy who lost a dramiel to an indy ship.stop running, you poor thing. stop running."
"so let me get this straight.... your going to biomass your char because you cant stand that fact that everyone thinks your stupid as stupid gets?oh... i'm supposed to sayu mad?can i has your stuff?cool story bro!"
"lol"
"rage extracted, tears harvested, mission accomplished but feel free to keep posting here if you guys want to, always nice to know people agree with me."
"fixed most spelling and grammar errors.totally fixed."
"a) risk vs reward.b) pithum medium boosters are _way_ too expensive. (edit: and pithi are too weak)c) 600dps are what a bs spits out at similar range.d) 4th bcs doesn't do much, i could fit it instead of gravi backup but really, i lose more time on retargeting than with dpse) this tank is absolutely sufficent.f) i have not skilled for hams and i'm not really going to, i'm aware of 900dps+ fits but really, why. it has a paper tank which fails at 6/10 complexes. rat-specific tank that is.g) ham fits have a 40km range max. this fit has a 120km range. i don't like to move around a lot.i'd buy the following fit if i'd have the money but it's an extra 1-2b:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.as the second invul field is, essentially, unnecessary, i'd swap it for another tp, but i'm too lazy to reupload."
"the cookie cutter hml fit pimpboat with 4 faction bcs and 6 launcher subsystem approach 900 long range dps after a set of missile implants. that number is not just for hams. it's the reason carebears use tengus, they see that particular fit in battleclinic, notice the eft numbers and drool. once you drop the dps to 600, it's lower than the harder to gank bs that the tengu is supposed to replace, while still easily ganked by 2 gankers, while the bs takes half a dozen. what's the point?"
"r u saying that u're also one of those carebears that double as eft warriors too? funny how u tried to leave that part out, despite how u're also \"drooling\" over just the dps. instead of just whining so much, just go ahead and switch to a battleship so u can a. move like a turtle b. turn like a turtle c. take full torpedo and cruise missile damage and best of all d. switch to weaker long range ammo til the dps is something u can really cry about. at least it'll finally give u the peace of mind u so desperately need but then again, since u're so dead set on whining some more about risks for rewards, go ahead and make another one of those clueless noob posts that u're also whining about."
"still paper tank.explosion radius of cruise missiles."
"its just a bad idea in my opinion, the sec status change is already rough like it is right now. i would love to see you grind rats in 0.0 for a month to get from, -10 to -1.99. its a very boring task, since insurances nerfs, not every suicide ganking is 'profitable' also, a hulk well fitted can tank a suicide ganker ok, if he's solo, or whatever. if its about losing freighter their freighters containers to hide your cargo and stuffs, there is ways to avoid suicide ganking."
"please do. i'd like a good laugh if he's stupid enough to not learn."
"supported. a round of smart bombs easily strips the myrmidon/ishtar of any effective dps. furthermore, jump into low-sec and count the drone boats camping the gate. drones are a favorite target of gate guns. there's a reason you never see myrmidon gangs roaming low/null sec."
"yes, should have been implemented a long time ago, as well as reconnection to drones."
"supported with an alternate tradeoff suggestion.instead of a flat 30 seconds or two minutes, instead make it 1 second per cubic meter of drone. so, to load a single light drone from the cargohold into the drone bay without orca support requires no drone activity for 5 seconds, but to load 2 heavy drones, 2 medium drones, and 1 light drone into a drone bay without orca support requires 75 seconds.vessels that offer fitting services to other ships (like the orca) should be exempt from this timer when transferring drones from their own cargohold into their own drone bay."
"not supported. losing drones should hurt."
"2-3 minutes should be the timer or so. imagine alliance tournaments, drone boats could destroy all if cargo could be used if it didnt take long"
"maybe, i'd be concerned about a drone player feeding drones in piecemeal as the other player kills them. tbh a flat time of 1-2 minutes sounds best.any other reasoning? i think losing drones over the period of a roam should only hurt you financially and in the immediate short term while you are fighting, much like ammo costs or overheating/repair.losing drones shouldn't cripple ships like a myrmidon if a player wants to invest extra isk into giving their ship more endurance. it's the same principle as nearly burning out your guns, but choosing to have nanite paste along so you can do the same thing all over again.this."
"some people come and go when it comes to games. some play for 5+ years with three accounts then finally realize they are not good at the game and rage quit. all their assets are then lost to oblivion to collect dust.i propose that after a certain time period when it is obvious they are not coming back to the game, the assets are put in a system and are part of mission rewards, drops from rats, part of rewards for exploration and the new incursion expansion.there is no reason why all that gear, including ships they rage quit logged in space should be unused."
"i propose that we ignore this stupid proposal and support this thread instead."
"lol, the hatters.a simple and constructive post would suffice. alas from your entire posting history, i see you are incapable of doing that."
"well it is a stupid proposal and you are an obvious troll, so there really isn't any point in discussing this seriously."
"please, learn to spell correctly.also, this is a terrible idea. here is why; people stop playing the game for many reasons, it could be rl issues (no money, military, new job, etc..). people also leave because they want a break. there is no reason to take away all of their stuff just because they stopped playing."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i laughed so hard. thank you captain foivos. +1 internetz!"
"i gotcher back bro."
"this is pretty stupid. i'd also like to point out that the chairwoman of the current csm is a notorious outlaw in game. so if we followed your poorly thought out analogy you'd be giving the mafia control of the marines."
"it realy dosn't mater if it have sliders or not."
"i don't see a need for sliders. you're likely just asking them, since the usability of the system currently on sisi is very lacking and it isn't clear how things operate there. i will give ccp the benefit of the doubt here and let them finish the system and tweak it to be more intuitive. if it is still a failure after all that, then i can support sliders as a replacement."
"since all his threads are either utterly idiotic with no idea how they would affect game balance or clear trolls with no purpose other than to allow him to post in lower case and insult people who point out how dumb he is.discuss.p.s. - if you lock this thread ccp then i sugest you lock the 100% personal attack thread they made about me here."
"drake isn't an idiot he is just a bit of an asshat to other people. tbh i'm surprised the other thread hasn't been locked yet, since it is against the rules and not constructive. on the other hand if ccp starts to enforce their rules here your posts will also likely result in a short forum vacation."
"why thank you for making my case even stronger than ever cromo...and linking the very thread to prove it all the reason why you should be silenced.i mean there are over 91 people who think your out of your damn mind cromo... explain that.people who don't exactly like me very much either to top that off... go figure."
"hey aren't you that guy who lost a dramiel to a badger then biomassed out of humiliation?hey aren't you that guy who got in deep doo-doo for claiming he made someone quit the game and posting logs of it that proved he'd left out of boredom?hey aren't you that guy who posts in all-bold caps?hey aren't you that guy we would all punch in the face in-game for being so annoying?hey aren't you that guy who posted a counter-ban thread because you have no comebacks?hey aren't you that guy who uses shift to make all his capital letters instead of using capslock?hey this text is orange"
"someone hit a nerve..."
"it's ironic that literally the only funny thing about you was losing that dramiel to a badger and then biomassing.you are such an unimpressive troll."
"by the way thanks for the linky, can always use a few more sigs on my proposal. also if they were going to lock it dont you think they would have done already, i mean they've had 6 whole weeks, guess they agree with me ."
"i'm on a horse!"
"fixed your post, dear. and i agree. he's always been perfectly nice to me."
"go away."
"marlona, please go back to hot-dropping things and stop ship-toasting on the forum..."
"locking thread for ranting. you are more than welcome to contact us through a petition."
"in this hypothetical 3rd world country would the script involve some sort of linear progression that made sense at some point? would it take less than a few days for these 3rd world guys to read that script? could we retrain the isk farmers to do it, they're in game anyway?"
"ccp would like to get rid of extra plexes, it's pretty clear it's still \"special\".however, this doesn't belong in this section."
"and why was incarna something they needed to be up in arms about in the first place?. after all vocal forum whiners =/= the player base (not accusing you of being that, just making a point). my guess (emphasis mine before someone accuses me of doing the same thing i just criticised) would be that the vast majority of players are either indifferent or would welcome it as something new to try. me personally, i'm cautiously optimistic but if it doesnt work out its not the end of the world, after all i already enjoy playing the game as it is now.i can understand the concern about the amount of devs working on incarna but i think it deserves the amount of effort theyve been putting into it simply because of the implications for ccp as a whole, not just for eve. if as ccp have been saying the technology will also be used in dust and the wod mmo as well as for eve it makes sense to take the time and resources to do it right and those have to come from somewhere. all the csm can do is represent the views of the players of eve, which i think they've been doing a damn good job of so far.anyway im starting to ramble so enough of me for now."
"as teh insurance exchange rate (or insurance fraud) has amply demonstrated, the \"isk loss\" for losing a ship is a very arbitrary value. if i kill a pirate in a ship with only basic insurance i will get more than killing a pirate in a platinum insured ship?bounty is paid on pod kills, not ship kills, so if i, the pirate, lose a ship to someone, can i get podkilled by a friend/alt to recover some of my losses?what is the value of modules? market price? mineral contents? (i suppose that the value of ships will be the mineral content used by ccp.)if we use mineral content meta1-4 and maybe even 6+ modules will be worth less than meta 0 modules."
"just wanted to reach out to the other eve players and see what they think. honest opinions wanted, hilarious flaming always welcome.i see alot of people wanting cloaking to be scannable and eccm to be usefull. keeping in mind that i do love my falcon and this would hurt my jamming very much.my proposal is to tie the two together, use eccm to to be able to probe out non-covops cloaked ships. the basic idea is that if your ships sensor strength is higher than the cloaked ships sensor strength that it is capable of being probed down using regular combat probes, and as an added bonus once you get 100% scan it decloaks the ship, for local grid decloaking. i don't know how to apply this to covops cloaked yet, and any ideas would help.let the flaming commenceari kelor"
"interesting idea, nice to see people remembering the point of being able to fit a covert cloak in the first place.not sure about the 100% decloak idea though, that may be a little too much."
"well, that's one of the many problems with the ah forum: even proposals with excellent approval rating will get buried, given enough time. i know it is much to ask, but one should crawl over the last years of ah and compile a list for that..."
"changes needed: sin:-sin needs 2000 base power more, a lol 8800 (ccp did u forgot a 1 in front of the 8800? redeemer has 17000 base power) base power on a semi hybrid boat is fail-remove all turret slots and replace 5 % hybrid damage bonus for a 25m3 drone bandwidth usage bonus per gallente bs level and increase max drone usage from 5 to 10 (max dps 950 with ogre's).-change agility bonus to a 7,5% bonus in max velocity of drone flight time -give sin the special bonus of scooping drones from 7,500 meters and deploying drones at 5,000 meter. redeemer:-need a 30% boost in large pulse damage and a reduction from 125m3 drone to 25m3 drone bandwidth)widow:-needs a 200 cpu boost-needs 25% boost in torpedo dps-needs a slight boost in cap recharge 10-20%panther:-needs 1 extra mid slot-needs a 40% boost in projectile dps and a reduction from 125m3 to 25m5 drone bandwidth-velocity bonus need to be changed in a 10% fall off bonus per black op levelchanges in general:-range increase from max 4,5ly to 6,5ly-range formula should get an exception that the black op can always jump 1 system jump. some systems with + 4,5ly (10ly-20ly, a to b with +4,5ly range need to be done manually in the current state)-standard fuel bay increase from 1000m3 to 3000m3-a bonus should be given to the fuel bay amount when a black op jump portal is fitted, it will add a additional x amount of m3 of fuel bay per black op level, example adds 3000m3 to fuel bay per black op level. -the black op jump portal should give a 10% reduction in fuel usage of that module per black op level. currently a recon that bridges uses 1500-1600 fuel while only 6666 fits in the fuel bay"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi am fine with the current plex system, in which people basically pay for someone else's subscription in exchange for isk. in this case, the transaction is double-edge - on one side, some person gets in-game currency for no work at all, but on the other side, someone gets gametime. this sort of \"microtransaction\" (if you can call buying plex a microtransaction) is cool, because it involves the community of the game like this, and create new and interesting in-game markets. even when people use loads of isk to buy characters, they are at least buying those characters from other players, players who took months or years to skill those characters up. out of game transactions that are essentially between players, as it is now with plex and characters, is a cool thing to me and it does not harm the game. with current stuff, there is still a fair playing field for everyone, and all plex/character transactions involve player-to-player exchanges.a cash shop removes the player-to-player exchange aspect of the current plex and character trade, and makes players go straight to ccp to buy things for their characters. this isn't necessarily a bad thing, but i think the unique player-to-player exchange aspect of the current system should be appreciated much more than it is for its uniqueness and for its success. a cash shop of some kind could be implemented alongside this... but only if it's in a way that does not intrude on the current plex/character sale stuff, and that means no buying characters (and by extension, skill points) or isk (and by extension, things that can be bought with isk), for cash. if it's cosmetic stuff only, though, and if the stuff in the cash shop is also purchasable with plex bought with isk by players who don't spend more than their normal subscription fee, then that is fine with me."
"no"
"no.i can tolerate cosmetic only because then i can laugh at the tools paying ccp extra money for a silly hat while walking around stations.but i'm going ahead and signing on for the \"quitting eve if they go through with this\" club."
"noooooooooo"
"cosmetic onlyi want that pink rupture!"
"microtransactions?lol you mean like buying a plex with money, then selling it for isk, then buying what you wanted in game?i can tolerate that cause i already am, but as soon as they introduce something, an item, that requires you to pay with real money then **** it i quit."
"no!!"
"dear god no!terrible idea that leads to ***gotry and the end of the world as we know it"
"no.one of the biggest deal breakers to me."
"no"
"no"
"no!!"
"noi don't see why people wanting cosmetics should have to pay more than any other group of eve players. it also screws over the whole free market idea."
"no!"
"clear no!even cosmetics. take your time when you make your character and do not mess around with it."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"noplease balance the game very carefully. if players can \"cheat\", some of them will, so making those cheats help fund other players in a balanced way is wonderful game design.i love this game. thanks for how grand it has been, and try not to wreck it."
"no."
"no"
"hrm... isn't micro-transactions already in the game with plex?personally, as long as they make the exchange currency either isk or plex (as in you use a plex to do the remap) then i'm fine because that can be traded to players not actually paying real money and just happened to have the isk around.otherwise, for items and benefits that you can only have from direct payments to ccp directly without the ability to trade for isk...then no."
"no."
"yes"
"up"
"supported"
"too bad ccp dosnt read these threads. i bet the mods skim over it and just go \"meh...\""
"agreed, good arguements."
"give them all another midslot another rig slot, 30 more cpu and 5 more power and they'd be pretty darn versatile.the electronic attack ships also need a similar boost... not another mid slot but patching their racial resitance holes and maybe giving them some bomb resitance so they're not dead with one bomb unless they fit a shield extender(and the notion of an armor tanked frigate is sort of odd to me )"
"fitting requirements, and tracking imo. damage scales better when you can fit neutrons, the only problem is that you usually end up severely gimping your fit in some way.you can put heavy pulse iis on a harbinger and still have a 800 plate with room for an mwd if you choose. with a brutix or myrm you can't do this at all. and fitting the best autocannon is hardly ever an issue on a hurricane or similar ship. things would be a little better if you didn't have to sacrifice an arm and a leg to put heavy neutron iis on a blaster bonused ship. in fact, this is the only time when i use medium blasters, and that is only on a shield-gank myrmidon. shield gank brutixes are garbage. fitting nightmare, less ehp, gimp it with ancillaries to put neutrons, etc.the rest of the time you will do better by fitting 425s instead of ions and 220s for electrons or flying a better ship. ditto railguns."
"simple and obvious. supported."
"super carriers obviously needs to be bigger.it can't dock, it costs 15/20x more then a cap, they are called super carriers, take a lot more components to build, ... do i really need to go on why they obviously need to be bigger?why this isn't fixed many years ago is beyond me."
"supported, though i would hope for a good implementation to support the number of multiple account owners on eve."
"wholeheartedly supported. tho iirc ccp already went meh over it in the past"
"hello,in the past we had engine trails in eve. i don't know why they are gone, but they were a little thing, that i liked very much.please, bring them back.for all, who don't know what i mean, here a screenshot of former days, a maulus with engine trails:maulus with engine trails (mirror 1)maulus with engine trails (mirror 2)there were already 3 threads in the past, with the same concern, but they are closed, because of inactivity. perhaps when we combine our efforts in one new thread, ccp will hear us.the past threads:april 17. 2009 - [proposal] bring back engine trailsmay 8. 2009 - engine trails, where are they?march 31. 2009 - what happened to ship engine trails?sincerely,sandrine starfire--------------------------------sorry, but i really did search for similar new threads. a friend told me about that thread: engine trails: why??which of course is similar.is it possible to combine the threads ? thanks you."
"that's quite the fit you've got there"
"i support this idea. i have not been around long enough to see what they looked like (thanks for the pics) but would like to see them retured into the game."
"from what i hear... they were removed because they were causing excessive lag on the server. not sure though."
"i hear your voice in the dark sandrine ;)if i look those pics, i remember..it was very nice optical visionsign on, for bringing back them"
"fully supported."
"qft again...plus learning skills kept 2 of my friends from starting to play eve entirely...dropping learning skills will make me less lonely online yo!"
"i do not like the idea very much."
"i have to say it's pretty sad that olafsson doesn't have the integrity to answer to this thread and state the same thing here.\"not become a dinosaur\" my ass. i hope everyone is aware that this means development time is being invested into \"features\" that will only be available for additional payment. development time was spent on the \"remap for plex\" with incursion, and the trend will continue and get worse in the future. it's not about exactly what they do. it's the fact that they spend valuable resources on it that are not being used in order to improve game performance for everyone.they invested dev time we ultimately paid for, for the sole purpose of getting more money from us than they are already getting anyway. despite the fact the majority of players evidently doesn't want that. it's a pretty ingenious concept, if you think about it.the same devs and coders who were working on \"remap for plex\" could have worked on fixing bugs we've had to deal with for years, re-balancing some game aspects, finally getting the address book in working order again, or properly coding the patch that broke the entire ui and that took them 3 optional patches to defuse (with some people still crashing at random, the client suddenly becoming a gpu hogging fps massacre for just as many, and mail system and auto-link features just about broken).eve really has one of the most dedicated playerbases i've seen anywhere - and ccp is now using that credit to try and milk the cow for all it's worth, instead of giving us the quality product they could deliver because we fracking well made it possible by investing our faith and money in them over years.so ccp executives won't become dinosaurs - but they will break explicit promises, make a grab for your money, and introduce items for $$$ that give the buyer no real advantage. just a small one. 2% dps, maybe? and all of that against the wishes of most of their customers."
"no"
"plex should just stay the way they are ... timecodes nothing else they should be used for ... ccp stop here thats not the way we want it there were several points already where you made me thought about leaving the game but this will just break it no way this is gone happen... sorry but no not with me there are also other games that we can move on and go to and play elsewhere ( btw. for your calculations i got more than 1 account running so well think about it twice and calculate this in... )"
"in my opinion.. selling gtc/plex for isk is more \"gamebreaking\" than this..i don't see the problem."
"no to microtransactions (mostly cause they don't begin or stay at the micro level and $35/month should be enough for two accounts.)"
"no to microtransactions"
"supporting as promised. you want to troll, there's a dozen other forums to do so in. leave the assembly hall alone."
"no, i've seen plenty of good proposals from npc corp alts and plenty of trash from corp/alliance members.what ah needs is better forum tools for voting, filtering and organizing proposals, like proposed in this thread with 100% approval:"
"you can vote only once in a thread for each account. and no, muting players that don't suit your idea of what is a \"worthy\" player, especially in the forum meant to gather players suggestion and votes on those suggestions, is a very bad idea."
"supported"
"funny here i am posting in my own thread on my jita alt, supporting my own topic.post with your main."
"venkul mul is his main afaikme on the other hand am an alt on my 2nd account.and i'm with venkul on this one.. these forums (ah and fi) need better tools to manage this stuff instead of caod rules. and if the csm would have worked with the guys putting together a proposal/idea tracking database you wouldn't feel the need to post this proposal here../not supported"
"that was your third post not your second.the solution to that would then be to simply make it so your account got 'support/denounce' rights not the characters. instead of one account being able to support or denounce a proposal on every character you can only do it once when you try to support/denounce a proposal it checks to see if your account has done so already if so you can't do it again on the same topic. you'd still get people commenting 'support/denounce' but *if* we actually get a real up/down system you could ignore all the people who don't know how to cast a vote.i prefer to do my forum rolling on an alt if something is important i use my main but only if i think it merits the mainliness that allegedly brings in my mind. my paranoid concern is also the trolls who use the forums to sniff out people to bother for disagreeing with them or 'fun'. just because you make everyone use their main account, however you determine that (most hours logged/time spent in space/jumps per month), doesn't mean people will magically stop trolling or posting silly/nonsense proposals."
"horrible idea when it comes to those faction ships being illegal, infact, the whole blackmarket idea sucks, but other then that, i support."
"people get famous by making a ****-ton of isk, then worry people might catch up, so spew bs arguments in hopes they get their way. luckily ccp is smart enough to ignore things like this. plus i always cheer for the underdog. this won't help any underdog catch up nearly as much as the people \"on top\" fear it will (even full on implementation of microtransactions wouldn't, seeing as the plex market pretty much allows me to do whatever i want right away anyway), but i'm all for making them shift uncomfortably in their seats watching it be implemented, wishing they had shut their mouths in the first place when the world doesn't collapse."
"victory!!!hehe, couldn't help it. i now declare that instead of the word ******. people use the word chromo effect.\"everybody knows you never go full chromo effect.\""
"and you will see that your ideas are still stupid and a waste of time reading."
"looking at a few ideas you posted... this game is better place if you stop volunteering your time. you dont have to waste your time, you dont get instulted, and these forums are not filled with bad ideas. go do everyone an favor."
"whats the alternative.?? he wouldnt be able to sell the char in the bazar. that name would forever be a \"no go\"."
"i dunno. i'd give him an isk for it - just for the ability to toss it out at parties and have a good laugh."
"up"
"lol, that sounds fun, think i might start doing that"
"im offended nobody ever made an attack thread like this for me.."
"he deserved it, you dont, simple as really. you really have to work on the ****posting to be as bad as cromo was."
"yep, faction missions seem to be a huge, cruel joke. i stockpiled a few hundred thousand lp in the regular lp store only to find nothing worth buying. so i figured i would try to get into faction missions for the second time to get that nice imperial navy dominix....today i flew around to 8 different gallente faction agents to try to get even a tiny amount of lp for my faction's store... so far, every single level 1 and level 2 agent i spoke with only offered me missions between 17 and 24 hops away! and every single one was into .0-.2 space!that is completely absurd for level 1 and level 2 missions to be completely suicidal. looks like i'll just let somebody else do the work and buy my faction stuff off contracts, paying half a billion isk for a faction navy ship doesn't seem like nearly as much of a bad deal now."
"and u're wrong 'cause isk farming to put minerals or mods on the market or at the very least, fund yourself to pvp is still supporting pvp. only how the isk is used determines whether it supports pvp or not, not how it's farmed."
"honestly, i'd like to see some missions where sometimes (but not all the time) the player will fail to complete them, even with proper skills, tactics, and eve missions open in the browser.and for those missions, i'd like to see a smaller-than-usual standing gain and loss, so that people will not be afraid to play them and sometimes fail."
"i'm sure i've seen the topic raised before, though i can't recall whether it was here or in features and ideas (otherwise known as where threads go to die).since eve is a strange and magical place, where we can't use the internet to bid on items unless we're in the same area code as they are...couldn't we have a function to set destination for the nearest system that is in a specified region?such as wanting to bid on a contract in the forge. instead of setting destination for jita, only to discover that another forge system was about 20 jumps closer...=)"
"pleeeeeease ~o~"
"yep, wanting that for years"
"yes please.while we're at it, make regions autolinkable for maximum accessibility."
"great idea, i've also wanted this for forever. /signed"
"been kinda wanting the same thing for a while, too."
"ought to be easy enough - if you treat a region as a single system (with rather a lot of gates) you can even use the same route-finding algorithm."
"concord is responding to ganks like a policeman who sees a child shot, bleeding out on the ground, and instead of stopping to help just keeps shooting at the bad guys.policemen in real life don't do that. they may try to do both, but saving the child instantly becomes their first priority.my point is, guys, concord could and should repair the shield, armor, and hull damage of a gankee with everything in their power. by all means go after the bad guys too.right now the child bleeds to death almost every time."
"concord aren't policemen, why do you insist that they act like them?"
"a module that if fitted and activated gives you a couple seconds of 99.9% resistances.this could potentially be used as anti-suicide module but it could also be used as anti-concord. it even could be used to sway the battle back in your favour."
"it should be called the paladin system."
"one question: why?if you find yourself the target of suicide gankings then it is because you are doing something wrong to begin with (flying stuff that's more expensive that the ship, easy pickings, etc). don't try to add/change game mechanics simply because you don't understand/want to expend the effort/have the inconvenience of playing the odds of survivability in your favor.also, your proposed module has far reaching consequences throughout pvp. it would essentially become the next damage control unit because who in their right mind wouldn't want to have a few seconds of invulnerability."
"sounds like a great idea"
"not supported. this completely destroys the point of different sized drone bays. the myrmidon/ishtar may lose drones, but they can replace them. something like a vagabond can't fit any spares. that's the point. drones are a different weapon system with different mechanics."
"for the sake of game-play and logic i would be ok with it if it would be tied to a module preferably a high slot one that would have to be activatedand would maybe even make the ship unmaneuverable because: how would that even work you got 2 different spaces in your ship the drone bay which maybe has some sort of drone launch apparatus and the normal cargo hold which is space compressed and is not in any way connected with the drone bay?"
"it doesn't \"completely destroy\" the point of different sized drone bays. what i have described can be already done in lowsec, where you can carry an extra flight of 2-2-1 or a flight of ogres and after the fight is over you dock up and replace the drones. dronebay there hasn't been made pointless by smart myrm players carrying an extra flight when they aren't rep-fit. in the immediate combat situation, dronebay still dictates your dps if you lose your 2-2-1, you will have to switch to 5 hammerhead iis, and so on. ditto with the vaga losing its warriors.the only thing it will really change is fights in 0.0, where you might see more myrmidons roaming if they can replace their primary weapon system after a fight.yes they are. a weapon system that can get easily destroyed or left behind obviously doesn't need a method to replace it's losses am i right? i mean turrets and missiles are able to overheat for extra benefit, yet also repair themselves in the field. drone platforms should have a similar method of self-replenishment."
"this."
"yes, hatmakers are indeed very funny.also, what the heck would be that time period? some peopel can take multi-year breaks... it's never obvious. this proposal is just greed."
"how about we just remove all assets from anybody who posts like cromo effect and distribute them to random noobs in 1.0 systems?"
"or we enforce mandatory biomassing of people who accumulate so much forum rage that even when they're serious we mock them."
"mmm. forum rage tastes like candied sunshine sprinkled with angel dust"
"its so tasty, must have moar!!"
"rest assured, cromo - we're laughing at you, not with you."
"also, there are other countries than us in world. you could just have researched other opportunities than us military for inspiration... now it just seems like blatant viral marketing for us."
"supported"
"there needs to be some numerical code for each feature so it would be practical to exactly recreate what you had been working on with a trial character , or even better a third party program.how a character will look is sort of a big deal if you're going to look at it for months or years...it might even be something you'd want help with by someone good at it."
"lets phrase it like this: if the sculpting feature stays crap like right now (which knowing ccps quality track record is not far fetched) i'll have to say that sliders are a must. otherwise you'll have a hard time creating faces that look remotely sound."
"not only seems like a pretty crap idea, but would probably require some serious coding which would probably totally destroy all gameplay for like a month if experience with patches holds true.if you're just dying to screw with cloaking (which it doesn't need) and make eccm worthwhile (which it probably does need) i would just do the following.1. put a time limit on cloaks dependent on type and increased by cloaking skill. so a prototype would give you a few minutes before having to be reactivated,improved maybe 30 min to an hour, and covops cloak permarun (change covops cloak to requiring lvl 5 cloaking). 2. signal strength, which is increased by eccm, gives an extra 100m or so per point on top of the 2000m decloak range."
"for all the douche nozzels who constantly ***** on the forums and play armchair politics/corporate manager/economics advisor the only power the csm has is what ccp gives it. the only other possible source of power for them would be if players were willing to unsub when they deemed it necessary to apply pressure to ccp. if you're not willing to do that then maybe you should just stfu and color. call your mom or something if you need to blow off steam with no actual commitment to do anything."
"u mad, bro?"
"is is possible that we can add the issue concerning destroy hull survivability?"
"still nothing on this eh.my main was considering this path. seeing the swift action by ccp higherups ill stick to a bs and continue to pull the trigger with the precision of an untrained monkey......but not caldari they suck ;) that is another discussion..."
"no. because i am not a russian aluminum magnate."
"no - it would be a major change in the fairness of the game."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only...i have no qualms with someone wanting to spend $x to get the latest in internet spaceship avatar clothing.butshould not have any gameplay implications"
"no!"
"i will say \"cosmetic only\"but will add that i think microtransactions in eve's case is a bad idea"
"[yes]sidenote: as long as existing stuff isn't converted into mt only.i prolly wouldn't buy any mt stuff ever, but i fail to see how it would affect me personally in a negative way regarding what i am doing in game."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyif ccp feels they really really really need to do this."
"no"
"no !"
"n.o....f.u.c.k.i.n.g....w.a.y!!!! noooooooo!!"
"no"
"nothis"
"no!"
"no"
"noand if ccp do implement this then they should stand aside in there attempt to become the be all end all of sci-fi games, because quite frankly they have already failed.to create such a universe where scamming, theft and cheating are not only commonplace but encouraged, and then to add real money in any capacity to that universe......someone didn't think that through very well.what about account hacking when real money is involved, what about credit card fraud, what about the teams that will be used to create all these \"cosmetic\" items?i'd rather have the legal and art teams working on the game i pay a subsciption for to be honest and not working for the highest bidder as it were.microtransactions are the haven of a company with incompetent marketing, or the last stand of a company with no marketing department as it is the least profitable most damaging way to market a game. (in the sense that you cannot garauntee that anyone will ever use them, but there presence is still detremental to the product)proceed at your own peril ccp for i will not support you in this.so anyway... no edit:i took the time to look at the previous posts of those who said \"yes\" i would suggest others do the same as it is rather enlightening. are these the people you want to play eve with?"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi consider plex for remap not giving special advantages, as if someone want to, he can make a 1 year plan, and so don't need a remap.as the remap is a bonus and not needed, i consider that it don't affect the gameplay.i would be for a plex use for current microstransactions (like swaping portrait...)i would be against something really obvious like free spsbut i don't really care, as microstransaction can't give you knowledge on how to avoid doing it wrong, and i consider that knowledge is the most important on eve.your money can buy a titan, but won't help you playing well with it."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.i can see a use for micro transactions with incarna. i wouldn't mind micro transactions for some things in space as well, like putting a logo on your ship. anything else would break the eve economy."
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"love assault frigs, just not the amarr ones. training for wolf right now."
"93kthe key point in flying gank fitted blaster bs solo might be not be the tank."
"i have about a year or more trained into hybrid turrets and supports for -caldari- hyrbid ships. i don't wanna hear it. gallente are lightyears ahead in terms of viable hybrid turret users. just suck it up and wait for ccp to do something like the rest of us if you're not willing to submit an original thought other than tears.ps. cross training into angel ships is easy if fotm makes you feel better."
"for great justice! also for whoever said it would look horrible, maybe you should look at the latest incarna screens. the facial structures look anything but toonish. if not nudity at least the opportunity to play around with the gender indicators of your character."
"ccp, add everything in this post, incarna, and fix the fleet lag (2 of those your already doing) and ill call this game a win. people will be more willing to have the patience required to play this game if it wows you with amazing visuals."
"i support this.there is a very large difference between making missiles overpowered, and making them acceptable for all sorts of situations, like guns are. i'm fine if caldari remain the kinetic race. but here's what i want to be done.standard missiles should not have 8 second rof. that's stupid on a frigate. it's justified on artillery which has good alpha, so i hear, but missiles do not have good alpha, and if the target has anything other than optimally huge sig radius and zero velocity your damage rather craps out.hell if all the missile launchers got less horrible rof, maybe caldari wouldn't be viewed so much as pve only.if nothing else why not buff caldari boats' drone bays? apparently they were once part of the gallente federation, so why not just give them some larger drone bays, but don't have the bonuses? it might justify the gurista ships being blends of caldari and gallente weapons technology as well."
"can i haz engine trailz?i dought the lag story heavily, its just an extended version of the same effect we have now. i would accept them just as warp/mwd trails and not as normal/ab trails, just having them back would be nice."
"i fully support your proposal!"
"i liked them and miss them too."
"this thread has to be a joke or something.... ccp said to eurogamer a while ago that they're coming back in incursion."
"i don't support this proposal. remap for plex is a cool feature !"
"no it isn't, but i'll get you started in the right direction.pros: *ccp makes more money*people who want to use plex or spend $$$ for more remaps can*people who hope for more 'uses' for plex (character portrait swap, name changes, etc) gain hope for the future*players can skip over a mechanic that is only offered by ccp, thus ccp has no competition for the service, hello monopoly.*people too stupid to understand how a remap works have an opportunity to reverse one that 'went bad'*people who want to only train at maximum sp/hr gain that ability through the sales of plexcons:*the exra money ccp makes goes to whatever ccp wants, not necessarily eve*ccp sees they can make more pay for feature options to players and have the monopoly on them*too few people make use of the remap option spurring more pay for features programs*too many people make use of the remap option and ccp sees this as motivation for even more features to sell players*eve goes down a road of pay for features that ruin the game"
"wtf ccp?"
"no to plex for remap"
"no, this is a very slippery slope, by correctly setting up skill plans and remap points and a bit of cash (or excess isk) it wouldnt be that hard to maximize your sp/hour, giving you an advantage over the person who cant afford the plex, and has to wait the year out. being able to switch your remap at will to minimize your training times does give an unfair advantage.with all that said, if this does go in, it needs a limit, once every 6 months maybe? but i would rather it not make it in at all."
"got to keep capsuleer alive its such a great app. i always read the blogs and check my skills to see if i forgetten to add on to the queue(which i have so its saved my skills a few times on that 1)"
"i hope you know that you are asking for payware... (commercial software)?!?if capsuler is going to live... you will be paying for it to do so....the dispute is over royalties on the eve online brand.... it's kind of like the dora the explorer delema but with internet spaceships!"
"supporting cuase cromo effect hates the idea."
"i'd honestly say if you're going to post something that you think might have negative repercussions for your main, then you shouldn't bother posting it.and if you're worried about trolls, train \"internet skin\" to v or quit eve; we're all jerks and trolls here."
"anything you can do, chromo effect can probably do better. you can make a corporation with your main and 8 alts in it? chromo will no doubt appear with an entire nullsec sov-holding alliance of ship toasters.i would prefer to see a simpler measure for the forums as a whole of one character per account being designated as the \"forum posting character\", the option of changing which is removed once that character has any posts published."
"nice to discover that ccp has broken some other thing. last time i checked it it was not possible to vote with more than 1 character for each account. /me go to the bug reporting. can i suggest to you to post with your brain? and maybe check people before using that stupid meme?not a good idea. there are plenty of sections of the game where you will use an alt for valid reasons. for example plex/gmt sales, price checking, character sales and so on. especially character sales as you will want to post with the sold character. then there is the problem of deleted characters. what will happen if you have posted once with your noob character in the new citizens q&d?you will be looked forever to use that character even if you have deleted it after 1 day and restarted from scratch?"
"fine for me to let people post with their main, but who no npc corporations? enough people are with their main in an npc corp. why would you exclude militias then? they got probably more alts than regular npc corporations (50% is spy alt of enemy militia, of remaining ones 80% is alt of people who tried fw and gave up on the horrible mechanics)."
"whatever would we do without chromo in ah?"
"supported.say it on your main or stfu."
"not everyone is in a large or even medium sized corporation, for any number of reasons, and might actually live with other players/corporations who look for people to pester. going unnoticed is how those players avoid problems from eve's more 'special' type of player. being in that kind of situation means they are easy targets if picked on, unlike those who might enjoy having plenty of corporation members to back them up if another corporation looked to bother them, who might be out in 00 where they are surrounded by allies or the same enemies that were always there, or even in wh/lowsec. someone being a **** who disagrees with that kind of player with allies/isolation and looking to mess with them has little effect on their gameplay, assuming the person looking to pester people even disagreed with that type of player in the first place. for the remaining people without numbers/isolation disagreeing with that type of person who by their choices might feel strongly about htfu, eve=pvp, and other mantras about bashing someone down to hump them for the lulz, well that player can affect their gameplay for voicing their concerns/disagreement. i don't think people who disagree with those types of players should need to 'out' their mains, or form a corporation if they aren't in a pc, just to comment/discuss ideas about screwing everyone who doesn't agree with a particular way to play the game or a change to force others to play the game a certain way. some corporations might also not want their members to be getting into discussions about gameplay/mechanics because that too can bring unwanted attention on the corporation and members. many corporations expect a certain conduct from players, such as no smack talk, well with this idea expect to see no posting on the forums from some of them too. i know plenty simply don't care because they welcome someone trying to mess with them and would be all too happy to have the people who disagree with them just shut up rather than deal with any blowback for telling them how wrong/selfish/etc they or their ideas are that boost their gameplay and nerf others. that people do think that this is a good idea is pathetic all in the lame attempt to say it will cut down on trolling/useless topics? trolling happens by a certain type of person who arguably has a certain kind of play style, useless topics are posted by a larger group but probably more so by newer players who don't know enough about the game/ah/etc, neither of which imo will get reduced by much with the proposed change. tldr: buy waffles, tasty, tasty waffles!"
"i support this adea. also i don't get your arguement, that this will be an advantage for some. if someone didn't start 2003, he already has a big disadvantage, that can't be countered with this plex feature."
"support, it's a means whereby a new player can try catch up. $35 for a couple extra remaps (on top of the bonus newbie remap) should be enough to get someone competitive in a year in small ships, which is still too long in my opinion, and $35 ain't much. now if only we can get rid of learning skills too. plex for remap is possibly the only microtransaction possible that 1) will be of greater advantage to newer players than older and 2) won't radically change game mechanics or structure. waiting a year and a half to be competitive in a battleship or hac is not fun. ideally, ccp would change the game structure to be more newbie friendly, but that would lead to ragequits above and beyond this, so this is probably the best possible option.still against shiny ship microtransactions or direct sp microtransactions."
"weekly bump for attention."
"+"
"just the other night i was having a discussion about why we can't color code targets like the overview. in fact, i've had this discussion every few weeks for the last two years or so."
"we do read your posts for what they are worth, and they aren't worth crap. your immature nerd raeg is not helping your cause. also, supported."
"i claim victory /me derails thread, from now on this thread is about the coining of the term cromo effect as a slang term for the slang term 'troll'.oh btw fix lag.....and rockets......and hybrids......oh and nerf the dramiel and drakelol look what i found, ccp is on our side!"
"/supported"
"i play video games cause its like watching a movie you have control of. and lots needs to be done to make this game look as awesome as it does in all of your deceiving trailers ccp... your trailers are almost a lie, people watch those, then play the game and go \"wtf is this? i shoot 100 missiles at a ship, and each missile looks like it could have taken out the entire u.s. state of texas.\""
"it would be easier than having 1 defender missile on all system i want to go to check, and a system without station wouldn't be a problem anymore (example ; forge to domain = niarja, no station here)"
"wanted this a few times myself... and i'm not even industry/trade."
"i'll support if it's a module that can only be fitted to an industrial (using their bloated cpu), and requires the same fuel as a pos does for it's invulnerability time.not that a couple seconds will mean that much when you're looking at a ship that is slow as a dying slug in the first place."
"this would end almost all pvp in the game. terrible idea."
"you've all just been trolled.he's just as every bit as bad as cromo effect.just not so obvious."
"ever watched a promo video for eve online? chances at included some awesome pvp battle or some such. where in the new player experience does it help a person understand how to handle or work their way into pvp?why would an mmo so revolving around pvp have no real gateway into one of their most advertised features? what is the common entry way into pvp currently? to bludgeon your head against experienced pvpers in lowsec or 0.0 and just learn the ropes through losing ship after ship? how many empire dwellers stay in empire simply because the roof to enter into the lower security spaces feels too high and foreboding mainly due to inexperience and the paths to gain that experience are simply not fun for them?why isn't there a better way? something appealing and safe enough that both new players and veterans can test out things but confining enough that the vast majority of individuals would not forgo normal pvp for this new feature?presenting virtual battle academy:a few key details of vrba> no loss from losing your ship or pod, it's essentially a game within a game. kind of like that dream **** in dallas. nothing that happens here really matters.> no reward for winning a round. you won a training simulator, congratulations, go win the real thing now champ.> no sp limitations. each person upon entering is essentially placed into a max sp clone for the purposes of their skills in the ship they use for the arena> pre set team compositions and fittings that players are randomly placed into upon joining the vrba queue. every match would be either a mirror match or a scenario designed to teach a specific skill. > end of round stats for your e ***** fanatics> join the queue from any station anywhere in eve. > zero aoe weaponry on the pre-set fits so friendly fire incidents revolve around a scaling punishment system detailed below. > no trial accounts> only a character actively training a skill may queue up for the matches. if you are not training a skill upon entering the match your place in line is kindly given to the next participant until you start training something you lazy freaking bum. oh? tell me more!> matches would range between 1v1 \"honour duels\" to 10v10 or 20v20 at ccp's discretion. > team loadout would be semi randomly selected from a list of ccp generated fittings and ships. > \"pvp experts\" would not only be welcome to join, but encouraged. see how many times you can use that trick you know to completely facestomp the empire dwellers/newbies before they learn to use it against you. the more experienced the competition the more you learn. > friendly aurora spoken(this is important)dialogs upon entering the match instruct you on the role and abilities of your specific ship. these can be shut off just as any other tutorial for those who feel they know everything or simply wish to figure it out for themselves.friendly fire punishment systemupon the first friendly kill you are ejected from the match, shown an aurora video on how to properly read and deal with what your overview is showing you and gifted with a one hour break from the vrba system. the second friendly kill you are again, ejected from the match, shown an aurora video and gifted with a five hour break.4th kill: 24 hours5th kill: 48 hoursat some point, again at ccp's discretion, you would lose the ability to join these matches outright. permanently. team setups could be pulled from previous alliance tournament teams, out of thin freaking air, or even from historical battles in eve's history. this would even open up the possibility of shiny matches involving faction ships simply to increase fun factor and woo the new players into wanting to strive for these ships they wouldn't normally get to fly into combat with.few fun facts to reiterateplayers in this cannot> use their sp> pick their ship> pick their loadout> get **** from it at all of any sort."
"so what your saying isarmageddon i choose you!*pokemon music starts*not supporting... seriously... ccp has frakked up their game so baddly and yet you want to make it worse by adding new stuff?how about we fix the crap we already got first eh?"
"no"
"not at all. the player would have zero control over what ship they fly or how it's fit. they would get slotted into an arranged team randomly. they could be in a rifter or a t3 ship."
"are you sure you didn't mean to write a list of proposed fw changes?not to declare new eden's newest bloodsport over before it starts, but arranged, evenly matched fights only happen in jita (and even then you'll usually get jumped by the opponent's corp by the end of it) and arena-style fights don't really teach anyone anything about pvp in eve.that said, i would do nothing but queue up for these matches all day. sounds like they'd be a blast."
"ya well putting a person randomly into a 600 man fight where one side horribly outnumbers the other doesn't sound fun or constructive. so mimicking a tournament setting would be the only real way to go about it."
"so what you want is sisi only more ~~~hurrrrr zany and random wheeeee~~~"
"ya pretty much. asking a new player to set up sisi can be a bit intimidating even though it's easy as **** now."
"this proposal is dog****, mlyp"
"i promote this thread in the hopes blasterthrons and blasterions get less gimped.edit: ccp really needs to move the 'approve' buton away formt he 'post' button"
"supported."
"tldr: this is a buff to battleships in general, not blaster ships. no.this makes little sense... this doesn't help blaster boats, other battleships get an identical boost to their mwd capability and capacitor as well. if you wish to buff blaster boats you really need to buff something unique to blaster ships, namely the blasters or the ships in question themselves. this would essentially just be a buff to battleships in general, improving their influence on range control versus other ship types and/or improving their capacitor usage. as far as i know, battleships overall are not in need of a buff.basically....no."
"quite a contentious issue that with some pretty vocal parties on both sides of the argument. i originally posted this in the s&m forum when i was trying to come up with a more constructive response than just shooting down the op suggestion, but decided i actually liked the idea enough to put it forwards here.i'm generally against the idea of requiring fuel to use a cloak or heavily nerfing the ability of ships designed for covert use to remain undetected for relatively long periods of time. that said i don't really see a problem with reducing the ability of non-covert ships to remain cloaked for long periods, or having some limit / logistical requirements for covert ships. i can just about see a workable compromise solution by combining heat mechanics with a special bay (not fuel but waste matter) on covert ship classes. it would go something like this:first we'll start off with the mandatory tenuous rp technical explanation. (not sure if this in with existing material or not and it's certainly not meant to be completely free of physics holes).cloaks work by controlling the radiative emissions of a ship. this is not an energy neutral process, requiring the retention of more energy than that emitted. this results in the gradual build up of 'heat'. covert ship classes get around this by having their designs based around a massively complicated bit of kit known as an energy-matter converter mk2 (apparently the mk1 was a disaster resulting in the instantaneous destruction of the prototype ship when it produced almost 300 million times more mass than was predicted). this uses the excess heat to produce waste matter that is stored in a specially constructed matter production and containment chamber that can only be safely accessed using the fitting services of a station/pos/carrier. allowing them to make extended use of any cloaking device fitted to the ship.now we've got the dodgy tech explanations out of the way, here's the mechanics.active cloaks build up heat at a rate that is likely to start causing damage after a couple of minutes.in a covert ship, this heat will be converted to matter and stored in the waste matter bay, assuming that there is space. covert ships should have space for maybe 24-48hrs of cloak operation.the waste matter bay requires the use of fitting services to be emptied.the falloutyou can still use a cloak on any ship, don't need to buy, mine or remember to bring fuel. if you're in a covert ship and your waste matter bay is full you should still be able use you cloak enough for travel purposes to go and get it emptied in relative safety unless you've let it burn out.non-covert ships can't afk cloak. you should be able to manage a pee break without your cloak taking heat damage, and with some safespot warping and nanite paste usage you might be able to wait out some hostiles long enough to either get some help, or until they get bored waiting if you're not a particularly tasty target. if you're trying to rat covertly in hostile territory though, you're probably going to need to bring a (shock horror) covert ship.covert ships can still akf cloak, but do have to leave hostile systems occasionally. most covert players probably aren't going to be particularly inconvenienced by the logistics requirements unless they're engaged in 23/7 *******ging (adding some minor logistical requirements to doing this deep in hostile territory is no bad thing imo).by a combination of happy coincidence and design this generally uses existing mechanics, although i have my doubts that this particular combination can be achieved without some coding work.p.s.can we also get a strikethrough formatting option on the forum. the lack of this feature tragically prevented me from working and evolution/intelligent design gag into the last sentence."
"like this?"
"why is it every freaking time i turn around... someone posts an anti-cloak thread and the only thing they can come up with is to make cloaking more complicated than it is... and that's all they accomplish...nothing changes....nothing really happens.not supporting yet an another cloak whine fest thread."
"@drake: agreed.not supported."
"so scouting in enemy territory for extended periods requires the covops to bring a control tower or carrier with them?hahahahahaha.no."
"because every day some new noob moves to 0.0, someone cloaks in their system for a bit and the whine starts. sometimes you get smack talked after only 30minutes.that said ... not supported."
"i never understood this.everyone whines about afk cloakers, but then smack them in local. if they really thought the person was afk, why do they talk to them? (beyond liking to see themselves post)oh...and not supported. cloaks are fine"
"i've thought about this for a while, and i believe a dedicated sub-cap drone platform that spans across all races is necessary. now i understand that most races have a couple of ships that more or less provide them a sufficient drone platform, but not a specific t2 variation of drone ship with the exception of things like the curse and the ishtar.i propose the construction of dropships, likely based on the battlecruiser hull, require di 5 bc 5 and leadership 5, though those are just ideas.in addition to the creation of dropships, one would also need to create micro drone control units. these modules would be specifically tailored for use by dropships, and maybe you could slap one or two on battleships like the dominix and the typhoon.these ships would not be able to fit turrets/launcher hardpoints, and would actually only have very few high slots.gallente variation, based on myrmidon hull:3h - 4m - 5lbonuses:5% increase in damage dealt by drones per level of dropships.5% increase in armor repair amount per level of dropships.the gallente variation would have tight grid and cpu, more or less tailored around active armor tanking.a maximum drone bay of lets say 200m3, and a maximum drone bandwidth of 175.this would allow this ship to field 7 heavies/sentries, and a maximum of 8 mediums/smalls.caldari variation, based on drake hull:3h - 5m - 4lbonuses:5% increase in damage deal by drones per level of dropships.5% increase in shield repair amount per level of dropships.the gallente variation would have tight grid and i do mean tight, the shield alternative to the gallente version, also offering the caldari a good sub-carrier drone platform.a maximum drone bay of 200m3, and a maximum drone bandwidth of 175.this would allow this ship to field 7 heavies/sentries, and a maximum of 8 mediums/smalls.amarr variation, based on harbinger hull:2h - 3m - 6lbonuses:7.5% increase in damage deal by drones per level of dropships.7.5% increase in armor resistances per level of dropships.the amarr variation would have a larger grid than its caldari/gallente counterparts, and a fairly respectable cpu as well. it would be more focussed in buffer and would have a larger base armor than the gallente version.a maximum drone bay of 200m3, and a maximum drone bandwidth of 175.this would allow this ship to field 7 heavies/sentries, and a maximum of 7 mediums/smalls.minmatar variation, based on hurricane hull:2h - 5m - 5lbonuses:7.5% increase in damage deal by drones per level of dropships.7.5% increase in shield resistances per level of dropships.the minmatar variation on the hull would focus on shield buffer, and would also have a larger base shield. the grid would be tight, but the cpu would be ample. in addition to this, it would be the fastest and most numble of the 4 dropships, with gallente being a close second, followed by caldari/minmatar.a maximum drone bay of 200m3, and a maximum drone bandwidth of 175.this would allow this ship to field 7 heavies/sentries, and a maximum of 7 mediums/smalls.the effective exchange for the minmatar and amarr being able to control 1 less small/medium, would be that they would have much larger buffers. in addition to this, it would make sense for the sensor strength of these ships to be quite weak, lets say on par with battlecruiser-sized marauders. this would stop them from being complete frigate eaters, as they'd be susceptible to jamming, and while drones may continue to fight even when their base ship is jammed, they become unable to go after specific targets.in addition to this, while the minmatar ships may be the most nimble of the 4, the ship range in general would be quite slow. they also wouldn't invalidate the use of ships like the ishtar or gila, as these ships would have significant signature radii, as well as lack the evasive capabilities of the ishtar or gila. nor the domi/phoon."
"so basically a micro carrier without the logistics ability.also, your numbers are off - 150 drone bandwidth will only allow for 6 heavies/sentries (@ 25 each) regardless of how many dcu's you put on the ship.like carriers you really wouldn't want to use them solo, but i could see them being of use in fleet fights.the real problem is that they're already overshadowed by the drone boats - the dominix can carry twice the amount of drones, even it can't launch as many at a time - and your allowance of the micro dcu on battleships overcomes that limitation - while having more survivability and offering decent logistical capability in a fleet support role.i like the idea of a sub capital carrier (just because i like carriers) but i don't know that this ship offers enough (as presented) distinction from other ships already available to make it viable to fill that role."
"indeed, i adjusted the math. i think adding +1 or 2 highs across the board while lowering the cpu of minny and amarr ships to accomodate the numbers would be better, allowing for the provision of logistic support. possible logistic bonuses could be incorporated. such as reduction in capacitor use for remote reps, etc."
"for a t2 myrm, this all sounds like my personal wet-dream however, i honestly don't like the idea for the other platforms. typically, i think of the harbi and the cane as being much more hard-hitting, rough-n'-tumble ships than drone boats. i'd rather see them fall into a category much more like a \"heavy battlecruiser\" than a drone platform.and a t2 drake just sends shivers down my spine..."
"hehehehe oh yes... the day will come... when a missile boat will be better then the rest... for once...or they can make it like a drake but more of a gank type of deal... like bonuses to speed and extreme missle velocity but less flight time... yes.. i see it now... the drake that acts like a mach !!! :d"
"it is called a dominx."
"i'd prefer to have them release patches more frequently, with smaller change sets per patch, and only one yearly \"expansion\"."
"supported, for all it's worth."
"1.0"
"i'm not sure i like the idea of limiting internal actions according to whether or not you're in combat, but i suppose it could work. also, replacing larger bays should take more time.an alternate idea i'd like to suggest, though is:1) a cargohold-to-dronebay transfer may not be initiated unless there have been zero drones in local space for x seconds.2a) each cubic meter of drone requires y seconds of transfer time.2b) transferring a bandwidth's-worth of drones requires y seconds of transfer time.2c) completely filling the whole dronebay at once requires y seconds of transfer time.3) drones may not be launched if a cargohold-to-dronebay transfer finished in the past z seconds.the parameters x, y, z can be adjusted. personally, i'm thinking:x = 60 secondsoption 2by = 120 secondsz = 60 secondsconsecutiveso, a myrmidon trying to fill an empty drone bay without orca support, from the moment it lost it's last drone, would need to wait a minute, begin the first transfer of 75 m^3 of drones, wait 2 minutes for the first transfer to complete, begin the second transfer of 75 m^3 of drones, wait 2 minutes for the second transfer to complete, then wait one more minute before launching any drones. a total of six minutes for the chosen parameters.if we go with x = 60s, option 2a, y = 1 s/m^3, z = 60s, then the same myrmidon needs 4.5 minutes.like i said, though, the parameters can be adjusted. but if a fight is dragging on a really long time without the myrmidon (or other drone boat) having any drones out, and it's still surviving, then it should be able to replace drones mid-fight from it's cargohold."
"doubleposted by accident."
"geez... you people make things so damn complicated. \"xm3 multiplied by y seconds divided by the third participle.\" ffs somebody has to code that, and every extra timer you throw into the game increases lag.just make it like onlining a mod. you need 95% cap to load a drone. then your cap gets knocked down to 50% (or w/e it is for mods). you ain't gonna be doing that in the middle of combat. and even doing it outside of combat is gonna take a hell of a long time (unless you start wasting cap boosters). voila! problem solved, quick and easy. and it was already in mentioned in... let's see... omfg the 1st reply!"
"i like the concept, may need some tweaking however.why not a simple : \"can't be done while targeted\" like for cloaking ?you can only reload drone if no one target you, so only when you were able to leave or finish a combatyou can add an agression timer to avoid doing this while ennmies are targeting someone else and not you"
"another idea to complement the previous ones: you can't recover or launch drones while reloading. any drones out may still be controlled, but not recovered. now if you happen to lose drones, you'll have to wait for the reload to end. combined with a long reload time this should encourage a more careful approach, not just launch drones -> reload, scoop to cargo whatever doesn't fit back in."
"i know i have flown up to drones i left behind to chase an enemy (or be chased) and hit \"scoop to cargo\" instead of dronebay. it would be nice to be able to jettison them then scoop them into the dronebay or some variation on that theme."
"yes the new player experience definatly needs to be looked at more, i want more subscribers to this game, cause \"more money to ccp = better products from ccp\"and seriously ive tried to get so many people i know that play games such as wow to play this game, they try it and quit almost instantly. this game almost pride's itself on raping the new players from every angle imaginable. i would of quit if i didnt love space ships so much"
"mostly caldari hybrids, but also stinky gallente hybrids if you have to."
"supporting this, the greatest injustice of all time."
"sure, s&i need some love"
"here's my two for one fix. stealth needs a boost in eve and what stands in it's way is local chat intel. so...1) cloaked ships drop off local chat unless they speak in it or deactivate their cloak.2) a little like probing, sensor strength determines if a player will show on another players local chat, making eccm more useful than it currently is and make it so you don't have to have a cloaked ship to avoid being seen on local.of course simply removing local chat would be much easier."
"im just having trouble figureing out why its against eula to share my account... i mean i dont have any need to atm but the question got raised and now im curious... i do not see anyway that it could be used as a exploit other then trusting the wrong person, but when does that not happen in eve?? i pay for the account so why cant i do what i want with it?"
"the problem is when the person you let borrow your account sell the characters and assets."
"well in that situation isnt it my fault? if i give someone a freight container of faction mods to hold and they sell it ud think ccp is going to ban them??? no ccp will say \"why did u give him a can full of faction mods yea dumb?\" when does it become ccp's job to judge that type of situation?who is to blame for this hypocrisy?? im sure its some fail carebear who plays farmville while he mines... that cannot be the reason though... ccp isnt that much of a pushover... we cant even get descent fixes to the game when all of eve wants it... how would they have let this happen?"
"dear ccp i did the creative part of thinking what changes are best in post #191, now go implement them in incarnau can mail me ingame if u want explainations based on the % changes"
"while i think your individual changes to the ships are ludicrous (bos have no fitting issues, but the sin and panther suffer from bad bo bonuses, granted), your general changes are far more interesting. bos need more range, not much, but they still need it 5.5-6 ly should suffice. personally i'd like to se the bo-skill affect jumprange, not just jump drive calibration. bos need better fuel economy, whether that should be adjusted with a larger fuel bay or not doesn't matter to med. a handful of bombers and a recon or two usually means a one way ride unless you bring a blockade runner along. i don't mind bringing a blockade runner but today you cant sustain longer campaigns without several of them."
"the individual changes are based on fitting the black ops semi faction in such a way that their bonus gets applied right and doing around 1000-1100 dps, sin gets 950 dps. redeemer & panther as dps boats, redeemer dps for heavy stuff, panther dps for smaller stuff (fall off bonus & good tracking, look macharial). the widow for semi heavy dps vs bigger stuff (battleships and stuff) and still has a little bit of buffer tank with 3 multi spec's. the sin is on this way an anti support boat with 10 drones with max skills & a good amount of high and mid slots for supporting its anti support role. removing the heavy drones from the other black ops are my explanation to the increase % of damage output to the main weapon group. try to fit a sin in its current state with blasters or railguns. u will see that it is impossible to even come close to match the other black op's survival ability (ehp, buffer tank) and dps. the only way to get it all fit is by fitting 2 t2 ancillary current routers & by that the other black op's get an advantage since they don't have to fit fitting riggs. besides that it takes alot of time to apply the dps to the target due slow ogre's or fail sentry drone optimal and fall off. typhoon base power grid: 12500phanter base power grid: 12750armaggedon base power grid: 16500redeemer base power grid: 17000dominix base power grid: 9900sin base power grid: 8800scorpion base power grid: 9000widow base power grid: 8800why got a semi hybrid boat 1100 power less than its t1 counterpart while the other black op got 250 -500 more while the sin is an armour & hybrid boat that needs allot of power alone for armour plates & hybrid guns (shield boat's (widow) doesnt need power as much as armout boat's). fitting a large armour repair system is not a option because it will take 2300 power (1/4th) to get a 350 dps tank with resist's that are lower than a cruiser. the capacitor isn't exactly big ether. so in short sin needs some individual changes. the other individual changes are to balance races more and make black op's more popular. they are fun to fly and it is a waste to let such fun pas fellow eve players :)"
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlynote that i consider the plex to remap the stat in the cosmetic only category (and only if the free 1 remap/year stay in game).plex for skillpoint will not be in that category."
"noeverything in game should be available via game play (isk or rewards). discriminating people by their willingness or ability to pay real money for in game advancement, creates a game breaking bias.i accept that the plex is necessary to prevent isk sellers, but any goods and services in game should be achievable via isk or some sort of reward (lps).micro transactions create issues a players immersion in the game. why would one good or service be available in game, and another only accessible out of game."
"cosmetic onlyi would like to buy a jacket or something that<U+FFFD>s very special."
"no.it's ok for me if montly fee will be increased, but not anything like this."
"nomicropayments only for non game breaking mechanics likeship paints, bigger body parts (incarna) ;-)"
"noit sets a very very dangerous precedent, please go tell your marketing department where to shove it."
"yesyou can already use rmt to buy plex with which to buy characters/skills as well as any ship or module. it would seem more intellectually honest to not force people to launder their real life cash through plexs. certainly, something cosmetic like pre-incarna race/gender change for isk would seem innocuous. past that, ccp could maintain the facade by selling all the new items for isk. it allows the existing rl$ for game advantage to continue while not breaking the facade for the non-rmt people."
"nosomeone said it best earlier, i didn't sign up to play gunbound."
"cosmetic and incarna related only."
"no.i could go for a \"cosmetic only\", were the subscription fee lowered a tad..."
"---the point i was trying to prove was that the gallente blasters have crap for range, and the rails have crap for damage, and the drones barely supplement the damage. the caldari can fall back on there missiles, though this issue affects caldari as well."
"no, and no again a useless idea, a complete waste of developer resources, a million and one things need attention before titillating juveniles becomes a priority."
"no.**** all of you.not even for the lulz.also, stop advertising this in corp chat and go back to second life, or wherever it is you came from."
"i think these 2 things are significant."
"please damage skins :("
"well..."
"for fsaa, it does work but only if both bloom and hdr are turned off. my computer can handle it, why can't i get those nice bloom effects while also having aa. once i figured out how to get aa working, i can never go back to how things were, eve is just so ugly without aa. also have you seen eve with aa on and shader's on low, its an eye sore (but that's a different point). aa should work with all effect on please.i also like the idea of a hyperspace window opening so it doesn't look like i'm flying through objects. also, i think it would be interesting when a bunch of ships warp in and all you see and hear at first is a bunch of hyperspace windows opening up then a whole bunch of ships appear on your screen. would definitely bring back some of the terror effects you got with the old cyno jumps."
"only by idiots who can't pvp, i guess that's you then. drake is fine, not supported"
"yeah cause shield tanking drone boats have absolutely nothing in common with gallente or caldari."
"no. all other races have their specific damage type bonuses on their missile boats. why should caldari be an exception? and no, because they have more missile boats is not a reason.fyi:amarr frigate skill bonus: 10% bonus to em missile damage and 5% bonus to explosive, kinetic and thermal missile damage per skill level.caldari frigate skill bonus: 10% bonus to kinetic missile damage and 5% bonus to em, explosive, and thermal missile damage per level.minmatar frigate skill bonus: 10% bonus to explosive missile damage and 5% bonus to em, kinetic and thermal missile damage per level.gallente do not have missile boats. stealth bombers have bonuses similar to these.so i ask again, why exactly should caldari be an exception to this?"
"like the idea, but totally agree with dek kato's post."
"as per dek kato.you know, i used to poke fun of my roommates' blizzard auth things all the time. i would've definitely bought one for eve though, ccp's got a snazzy logo just waiting for a functional keychain to sit on."
"supported.yes, most problems occur when people are being stupid. otoh, it is probably easier to change the security than the entire human race. and you having done something unsafe and survived does not prove it was safe - be it dui, unprotected s*x or surfing. google \"first day exploits\" - adobe and flash are recent favorites where an up-to-date machine on a good website can even get malware served up from an advertising network that appears in the sidebar.this will cost ccp money to implement. however the reduced customer service costs offset this. at some point, as the player population grows and humans (customer service agents/gms) get more expensive and technology gets cheaper, the lines will cross, if tfa is not already a cost savings.also note that it's not just physical fobs any more. iphone/android/smartphone applications get around the shipping issue.personally, i would prefer for ccp to be a leader in technology in general and play protection in particular. but at least now they should play catch-up.the next level is to optionally allow a corp/alliance to say that certain roles require a tfa authenticator. e.g., a large alliance could say only characters with an authenticator could be assigned the role that allows disband an alliance. the cva disband that was undone probably could have been avoided."
"for great justice"
"i liked them too. bring em back."
"sounds like s great option for a microtransaction purchase. it is clearly what some people desperately want and it is purely a cosmetic change.supporting plex for engine trails."
"supporting this thread because engine trails were bloody awesome."
"yes, bring it back."
"i've arleady forgot about them :) +1"
"though i doubt ccp will listen, i wish they wouldn't do this but they seem determined to implement micro-transactions, and while i'm not against microtransactions for cosmetic purposes as they put it, altering the sp/hr is not a cosmetic change.supported."
"noo hell no"
"nooo"
"obviously..."
"seriously don't start down this road ccp, it only ends in a very bad place.i guess this is where we find out, quite how much the csm means to ccp, when this many players disagree with them."
"really ccp, wtf?"
"isn't it sad when the plex for pizza thread has more supports than this one? i think so."
"mmmm....pizza..."
"this"
"a big no to excluding \"npc corps\", but supporting otherwise.would tidy things up, and, as they are already working on new forums, now's a good time.."
"you make it sound like this covers every noob, it only covers noobs with spare cash or spare time, those without either are just **** out of luck i guess.not supported"
"plex for remap is just trading an in-game item for in-game benefits. would you be mad if it was cnr for remap? or 350m isk fee for remap? if you want to whine about microwhatever, whine about plex for $15.one more available remap would solve my big skill dilema, and being able to remap for plex would at least give me some incentive to make isk (no wars lately = boring). players who have the skills (no, not the ones you buy with sp) to make isk wouldn't have to wait three months to be able to fly a ship they could buy a dozen of right now."
"no, plex is not a normal ingame item, it can be bought with real world currency. that, is the difference. if it was a mission reward or some type of ingame event, i wouldn't mind.people are confusing 2 different problems, the need for more remaps to make up for newbie mistakes and such and microtransactions in general. making remaps a microtransaction item is a bad solution to a legitimate problem. like many said, it fixes an ingame mechanic by assigning a dollar amount to the solution. there are plenty of ways to address the problem with fixes to ingame mechanics or really any variety of events.i took the time to plan & carefully do my remaps, others didn't and are now at a distadvantage, but thats what eve is about, to plan ahead or suffer the consequences. to simply pay 15$ to catch up is just lame. i understand alot of people that wasted their remaps would look at this as a chance to finally fix their newbie mistakes. but it also allows people to plex their way through repeated unlimited remaps to retain the maximum sp/hour, circumventing a game mechanic that has made everyone equal, that is that sp cannot be bought with isk/real cash. after this, those that have the pockets will be able to do so.remaps are limited, plexing for them will be unlimited (or at least they don't seem to have announced an assigned limit to it). better solutions perhaps reducing the interval for remaps ? adding a 3rd one ? allowing a 1-time ingame event for it ? hell i would be ok with this if they actually limit how many times you cap pay for it with a plex, its \"somewhat\" fair if you can still earn that isk and get the same treatment, but for the average person, he will never be able to compete with someone that wants to pay to have an almost perminant ingame advantage in sp/hr.not supported. but i would support a different fix for remaps if you want to create such a proposal."
"no."
"haha....trollolol"
"agreed"
"lol that's right. just keep it now.to avoid the mistake just open starmap then find the bookmark to delete"
"god, no.i don't want to reset disbled confirmation to delete bookmark."
"lol"
"absolutely!"
"you forgot a most funny one - anti-doomsday..."
"this proposal comes up from time to time and it always goes down the same way: in flames.the basic counter argument to this is; why would people want to engage in \"real\" pvp when you can just do something similar in, what is essentially, \"no-risk\" pvp?more than that, \"arenas\" don't teach the newbie how to assess the battlefield... it doesn't tech the newbie about fleet tactics, how to fit ships properly (because you give them a random ship in your proposal), or how to devise a strategy with others (i.e. rr gang, ewar gang, wolfpack, shadow fleet, disco gang, etc.)... you can only learn all that through the real deal. but then again, no one will care about any of the above because people will still get to satiate their pvp urges in the \"arena\" with no loses.not supported.edit: spelling fail"
"how about just cause a civil war in the nc instead?"
"eve is like the ultimate darwinian experiment: you either get it or you fall out.the best way to learn to pvp is to join a pc corp and just start flying tacklers (rifters, rifters everywhere). the idea of a vr arena just seems to devalue that aspect of mentor-to-student system thats been the norm since eve was released.really, we just need more people scooping up new people and breaking them in, not coddling them around until they dare get their feet a little wet.edit: follow @edfromsales for lulz"
"eve combat without a chance of loss is like playing poker for peanuts. both seem to be \"just like the real thing\" at first glance, but neither really works."
"one can only learn pvp by losing ships by making stupid mistakes and learning from that.not supported since it would never even get close to real pvp"
"yay cost free pvp yay!!!!lets not destroy whats left from the market.... we endure macros, infact they produce lots of high sec minerals-always want more. (shut up pvpers you have cheaper ships )but if you actually make isk free pvp then who is gonna buy ships? modules? ammo? not supported welcome to the sandbox"
"2/10 for a decent but obvious trolling attempt."
"apocs and ravens don't need any more range-dictating power. just saying."
"amarr ships will be able to use them!"
"now add the total ammount of cap the different ships relative to the cap use of a mwd into your equation and i think bs suddenly wont look that bad.anyway mwd definately does not need a boost. if anything nerf it on frigates (imo mwd should be quick bursts of speeds and not perma runned)."
"spoiler: frigate with mwd off is a dead frigate.supported because i eat 800s on my tempest like candy. since qr, i honestly don't see the point of mwds raping cap like they do."
"rejected.there is no compromise without the removal of local chat intel as part of the proposal. although i will give you that your pooping cloak idea was unique."
"no.this is a massive change to something that doesn't need changing.not supported."
"i guess this deserves a response, since it's the only reply that addresses anything specific.let's take the upper bound that i gave for cloak operational ability (48hrs).if you play fairly extensively, say 8hrs a day, you can stay on station for 6 days, constantly cloaked for your entire game time, before you need to make the trip to either an npc station, friendly pos, or rendevous with a friendly carrier. hardly a cripling logistical requirement. sure, if you want to spend months hanging around in hostile territory the number of trips might be in danger of reaching double figures. woe is me."
"can you answer a questions please:a cloaked ship cant do anything to you, while it is cloaked. if they decloak, you can just kill them as they can kill you. why is an cloaked player who is afk, by your definition, a problem?"
"they aren't as such. these days i'm more likely to be the cloaked player than than the guy trying to go about his business with a cloaker in system. when it was the other way around in the past, it was a minor inconvenience at worst, and i used to fly setups designed to kill them if i wanted to do some ratting. i'm generally quite happy with the way covert ships function. the things that i think could do with a bit of a tweak are the things that are affected by my proposal.1. ships that aren't designed for covert operations shouldn't suddenly be able to operate for extended periods in hostile territory simply by fitting a single module. operating behind enemy lines should be a more specialised operation.2. being able to leave an alt in a hostile system 23/7 with the potential to light a covert cyno at any time is too much threat for too little cost. before covert cynos this wasn't really a problem. you could jam a system and realistically scout approaching hostiles that were close enough to arrive before you could take down a decloaking tackler. it's not that i think you shouldn't be able to go in with a covert ship and stay safe and cloaked for a fairly extended period, bide your time until the moment is right to drop your buddies on them. that's why my proposal doesn't come close to preventing it. what i do think is that the threat is now great enough to justify some minor logistical requirements being added."
"bah, wrong character."
"it will never happen because of the emo rage quit spam that will happen from all the people that use cloaks on non-cov ops ships for various reasons and the griefers and gankers that rely on non-probeable ships to get their rocks off. from solo gank roams to ratting in carriers a lot of folks use the cloak to save their hide and they want the status quo to remain unchanged as it benefits their play style. they are the risk vs rewards guru's until it effects their risk vs reward ratio and then the whambulance explodes onto the forums like it has for years now."
"translation: u want to \"fix\" a \"problem\" that u stated u don't have a problem with in the first place by nerfing something else that has nothing to do with what u do have a problem with.just fyi, non-covert ships cannot fit covert cyno generators in the first place. and how hard is it to watch local jump? so compared to soloing or even in general, blobbing is so much more balanced in risk vs reward right?"
"*sigh* i'll bitemake 0.0 local like wormhole local. less lag and afk cloaker non-problem solved."
"i thought it was clear, but point 1 was to do with the excessive covert ability conveyed on a normal hull by the addition of a single module. point 2 was to do with the excessive maintained threat potential/effort ratio that can achieved by covert ships. i don't think the threat potential is too large (as seems to be the case for the posters of most of the \"whine threads\"), but i do think that the effort required is too small.obviously that's all in my opinion, and i'm well aware that there are other people that think the right balance should be much further one way or the other. i don't think there's much mileage to be had in trying to wholesale change people's opinions of where the right balance is on this issue. what i was hoping to do was to present a new solution that lands somewhere in the middle ground. and have a discussion as to the relative virtues and flaws of the way it achieves this. people stating that they think the balance is best how it is, or with massively nerfed cloaks is fine and all, but i'd much rather people give their opinions about how well / badly the proposal achieves what it sets out to do, or pointed out effects on gameplay i haven't considered / got wrong.the key differences to most suggestions that i've seen thrown around is that it targets the main areas that currently make cloaks one of the most overpowered modules in the game without really reducing the capabilities of (actively piloted) covert ships."
"well the most important point is ... are there even enough reasons to warrant the change in first place. and if your only issue is, that a cloaked player forces you to be more careful while using your system, then i have to say ... that is not enough reason to change anything on cloaking, because you can still use your system. anyone who claims, that you cant use your system just fails horribly.that said ... rat in groups, protect your miners, bait the cloaky, or just move to the next system.you still havent convinced me."
"you could do 600-675 dps with t2 gardes, and have plenty of mids for omnis to get their range out. with a rep bonus on the gallente/caldari ones, and t2 resists, combined with their lower than battleship sig, they'd be near perfect l4 runners, and nearly worthless for anything else. not to mention lag, or the lack of space for replacement drones, the fact that you only listed 2 bonuses. plus the gallente ship being out damaged by amarr and minmatar? does not compute. very poorly thought out."
"drones are the specialist wapon of the gallente race and should remain so, it is th eone thing that gallente do better than everyone and th edrone spec boats are already there, myrmi, ishtar and dominix.if a spec drone boat was made for every race, then gallente would need to be heavily buffed in another area, such as making blasters longer range and better damage. otherwise this idea just makes gallente ships even less desirable than they are now, and lets face it tehre isnt a gallente ship that isnt overmatched by a ship of another race except for their drone ability.totally not supported."
"hi,as much as i would like to say that gallente are the drone gods i always find, curse, pilgrim, hell even phoon being great drone boats ;) infact a curse will most likely wreck an ishtar, also phoon vs domi i guess phoon t2 torps will hurt the domi which can fit neuts (yeah nice to counter minmatar...) or blasters and pray phoon is in point blank range.i would like to see another t2 bc (tier 2 hull) but not all as mini-carriers. each faction should have unique bonuses or at least the 2 specs (those gained by training the t2 bc skill)."
"didn't we remove the ability to pilot a ridiculous number of drones because of the lag that it created?why would we want to go back to that?"
"perhaps they could fix the eos and you could get a t2 myrm :)"
"so we ever gonna find out if ccp had her killed then? mysterious disappearance is mysterious."
"actually darek your the idiot that you accused someone else of being. you like paying to beta test other games? which is all this basicly is.we are to test their crap for 2 other games. no matter how fanboi elite pvers like on the csm claim.... proven bye statements as csm opposing more pve cause pvps got to many broken parts? wtf pvp needs to be nerfed you can do it 30 secs after character creation.. using their tried and true methods ccp should nerf it. its to easy even easyer than mining. edited do to being mad at stupid people...."
"yawn, go troll somewhere else moron boy. better they do it here where they can tweak the code on a platform they understand and have used for years than having to do it on brand new code and manage release day expectations at the same time. besides you seem to be forgetting that all these features will also be applied to eve as well, oh wait you're a troll you didnt forget at all."
"yea haahha yawn ... the only troll is you. as usual you can't debate so you start insulting. typical of trolls. you can not even defend your own idiotic comments on saying its ok to beta test another game. i wouldn't mind it so much if i was not paying for it. despite what idiots like you claim its not free. you still pay a monthly fee."
"good advice, which begs the question- instead of posting this drivel why didnt you call your mom or something?"
"just a thread where csms can post their impressions of the october summit that is currently underway.here is my blog report on the first day: ragnar<U+FFFD>k in reykjavik"
"very prosaic look forwards to hearing moresay hi to everyone for me lol x"
"way to go csm!"
"well, the person you share your account with could not have agreed, or even seen, the eula, which could create all kinds of loopholes where 2 people working together could basicly do everything the eula is supposed to prevent.a could have agreed to eulab could break ita could not be banned because he didn't break the eulab can not be banned because he didn't agree to the eulai don't remember for sure if or when the eula agree question is asked, but this could be one reason."
"that provision is there to make ccps life easier.player a creates account and does a bunch of stuffplayer a shares account with player bplayer b steals everything or gets the account banned doing something badplayer a cries to ccpccp responds: dude it is against the eula to share accounts! too bad! petition denied!"
"but still... how many people have kids that share accounts. like a father/son as an example. my only guess is that it might be considered cheating in the way that 1 person runs missions while the other sleeps. it make's me think of how a gold farming company works. you could in theory have 4 people using the same account that is never logged out. that, and someone you think you can trust breaking that trust."
"we've had no issues in turning our bos from covert taxis into dps-boats when needed. with the exception of the sin. but that is not due to fitting constraints rather than game mechanics. it's very hard to apply drone dps before a target is evaporated. but we've found other uses for it. our experience tells us that grid and cpu is enough on all boats for us to do what we please with them, but that the specific bo skills are a bit out of order for sin and panther. that seems, however, like a far lower priority than being able to jump and portal some friends to the next door system and back again."
"yes"
"no.first the announcement of \"dungeons\" and now micro-transactions.next step shall be the opening of battlegrounds and the discovery that jovians are indeed.... elves .volcanic dust has f***ed up the brains at ccp i suppose.star galaxies syndrome anyone ?"
"no, nein"
"no!"
"no, it<U+FFFD>s just a very very bad idea."
"i support it for vanity items only that give no competitive advantage to a player. as far as remapping goes.. maybe buy only once in a month period.. 12 months is a long time and focus can change."
"1.0"
"what you mean rsa security? you seems to be spitting words without knowledge. what in blizzard stupidity is related to rivest-shamir-aldeman chipher algorithm?"
"supported!"
"i was wondering about that when i saw a video of a rifter i think..supported"
"timesick.....good memories.1+"
"we really need a way to visually see the difference between the different basic/med/adv material processors.right now they all look like a yellow circle + gear.maybe add something as simple as dots or chevrons.1 dot -p12 dots -p23dots -p3"
"the score is 18:715 now :) whatever...this situation is very dissapointing, anyway, will it be on tq or not."
"kill it with fire!"
"isk for  through gtcs is enough. i don't oppose to it because i'm realistic and if ccp doesn't control it, then the rmt market would be a black one mostly.to give an xp advantage for ? no, thanks. it's lame even in f2p games (oh wait, eve is already a f2p game for me :*)"
"supported! i play this game because it's hard. i play because i love the challenge. i play because with risk there is reward.do not make this what soe \"not sisters of eve\" did to swg, a care bare game. do not make this a care bare game!"
"why has this trend become so popular recent times? :("
"right there is the problem. players such as yourself equate plex to rl money. nothing could be further than the truth. gtcs are bought with money, not plex (note that when you 'purchase plex' from the eve website, you are actually only purchasing multiples of a gtc). those gtcs can be used in one of three ways...it is used from the player's account management area to add time to his/her subscription outside of the game.it is sold outside of the game in the official forum - timecode bazaar - for isk (the isk is of course then used ingame).it is converted to plex from inside of the game which is then used or sold inside the game (but the gtc is purchased outside of the game).you cannot buy a gtc ingame nor can you buy plex directly with money ingame. you buy plex with isk. plex properties include:sell and buy it on the market for isk and haggle over the price.anyone, even the poorest eve player in rl, can buy a plex.store it in a hangar, container, or cargo hold.transport it within a ship.trade it for another ingame item.put it into a contract or use it as payment for a contract.give it to another player, to a corporation, or to an alliance.transfer it to an alt.lose it if your ship is destroyed while it is in the cargo hold.salvage it.use it to pay a ransomif you will notice from that list, a plex is just like any other game item, and just like any and all other game items, you cannot buy it with real money ingame. you can however, just like the gtcs, buy a ready-made character with skill training in various amounts and with that character, you may also get any game item in that character's hangar if so agreed. also notice that selling gtcs in the forums is the same as buying isk with rl money. that is a lot closer to buying an advantage than is using plex for a neural remap."
"we equate plex to rl money because that is the only source of creating more plexes. i don't know of any other ingame mechanic that allows you to create a plex without having spent cash to obtain gtc's. your list covered alot of the plex's properties but as you've pointed out the only way to add to that supply is by spending cash, obtaining gtc's and going through the process to turn them into ingame plexes. i cannot mission and buy a plex with lp, i can't mine/harvest one, i can't run sites and have a plex drop. all other ingame items have a way of creating them within the game itself, therefore plex is not a regular ingame item, even if it recieves almost the same treatment.even the news articles use plex prices to backtrack real world cost in evaluating heists or other ingame events involving the destruction/theft of lots of isk, even though rmt is technically forbidden and such numbers would be invalid to begin with. another example is ccp's plex for good campaigns, with ccp promising to provide the equivalent real world value of plex's that are donated to a ccp char (and thus removed from ingame market supply) to humanitarian organisations. that is the truth, the reality is that plexes have a real world value, and as a by product of that so does isk. if i'm not mistaken, that was one of the original intents of plex's to begin with. to undermine rmt and isk sellers by providing a secure & closed loop system of buying isk.but you know what, thats an entirely different issue all together and only one of the reasons i don't support it. the biggest reason i don't support this is because it breaks the limit on remaps, it doesn't extend it or change it, it completely breaks it. you can have unlimited remaps for as long as your ingame/realworld wallet can allow, that is imo the biggest problem. i may agree with you on the value of having a higher amount of remaps to account for newbie mistakes or plan changes or many of the stuff you listed under \"pros\" in your proposal or by others that supported this. certainly the need for more remaps is there, i just believe this would be a terrible solution to it, hell its not even a solution its a work around that has a real world value assigned to it. however should a limit be implemented, i may change my position on this, but until then i cannot support it. in addition, if ccp is using this as the first of possibly more \"cosmetic\" microtransactions, it does not bode well for the rest of their microtransaction lineup. because neural remaps are certainly not cosmetic at all, its brain surgery !"
"the point though, sleeperacolyte, is that once that plex is ingame anyone can use it, not just the person who had the extra cash to buy the gtcs in the first place. most players who buy gtcs either apply them directly to their account or sell them in the forums or through the conversion feature. those who sell them rarely use them for their own account. i know. over a 6 month period this past year, i sold a lot of gtcs in the bazaar. i always had a few billion to share among my accounts for implants, highend skillbooks, and expensive ships and mods, and that gave me a huge advantage over other players. when this plex for neural remaps goes live though, i will go to buying plex with isk because $17.50 a pop for a remap to save a few weeks a year in training is not cost effective in my book. i would wager that most sellers of gtcs/plex feel the same way.along that same vein, how would this break the remap feature? no one in his/her right mind would spend a plex for a remap frequently unless 1)you are rolling in cash, or 2)you have been playing & hoarding your isk for years and are one of the few elite eve rich. the common player is only going to be able to use maybe a few a year at most.as for a limit, i added that to the proposal shortly after i posted it and i'd bet ccp has looked at a limit too, although i honestly don't believe it will be needed."
"been teetering on the fence on this issue but i like your perspective on it even though i loathe microtransactions.supported"
"1) it may certainly seem reasonable to expect people wouldn't spend tons of cash to gain an advantage, but that is not always the case. there are many examples where people have funded capitals, towers, ships and character purchases through real cash and didn't think twice about it. i know a few and i bet you do to, its not that rare a phenomena. plus you get 2 plexes for the gtc if i'm not mistaken, so thats already 2 more possible remaps for a single purchase.2) a plex may be an expensive item, but i'm sure many people have alts that are completely subscribed through plexes including me, so spending them on a semi-regular base does not require you to be filthy rich. certainly remaps won't be used every other day, but if some eve players can manage to get a plex per month, i would expect them to be able to afford a remap per month, rendering the entire remap system pointless. certainly you can seperate your plan into month-long remaps, or maybe 2-month long to save isk and you'd still maintain an almost perfect sp/h ratio. that is how the lack of a limit would break this mechanic. it effectively introduces \"power leveling\" into eve."
"meh, why not. besides, it's not like these proposals every amount to anything. ever. they're about like entries in the features & ideas recycle bin subforum."
"lol true. actually, since ccp has already stated that plex for neural remaps will be in the winter expansion, this is nothing more than a discussion on the issue as is the 'no...' proposal. still, it's nice to get a few more supporting it even though the nays are waaaaay out in front due to fears of an unfair advantage and gaming-breaking mts to follow. i just don't see either one happening personally."
"well there is the vain hope that some ccp developer will read all this and perhaps take it into account as constructive critique. if not, at least the strong backlash against this may influence future offerings of \"cosmetic microtransactions\" that modify game mechanics. i would be much more ok with this with a limit in place, but i'm more worried about these types of situations happening again and having to debate other microtransactions that blur the line between vanity item and modifying existing game mechanics. at the end of the day ccp is going to do whatever it wants and whatever makes business sense."
"very much like +xp scrolls in other games. not supported. the whole remap thing is screwed in its basis. why not remaps every 24h cooldown?"
"/signed"
"supported.also, someone at ccp please move the api page and the entire"
"bump"
"support"
"support"
"things change in eve all the time. ships, equipment, parts, pi. we are here to try and make eve better, not worse. any ideas, suggestions in doing that should always be looked into. pros vs cons. i support this, i feel it would benefit everyone as well."
"i support as well. it would be nice to see a new exhumer that can defend against attacks. not saying invulnerable, but at least give us a fighting chance."
"i support this and agree, not for use in empire, does not exceed current times, love the mining crystal bay. do not agree with sending direct to a orca. i would like to see it as a gathering all in one. rock, gas, ice.it needs to be earned. not obtainable quickly. its an achievement the pinicle of your career"
"currently the tactical overlay has four points with range lines, i would think it would be relatively straight forward to mark one of the four points with either a colour or an arrow. this would make returning the camera point of view much more straight forward. for example when using the overview while flying an interceptor it can be disorientating as the camera in spun in order to double click in space, having a visually fixed point in space would certainly aid flying many ships.neuro"
"if i have this right, that will hide everything.. i would like to be able to click and target items or have them identified with a label on mouseover or something to that effect.. what say you all?"
"this proposal is to add mines and minefields into the game. if you have ever seen star trek ds9 you know what i'm talking about.the idea is to anchor a mine into space. the same way you can anchor a cargo container. there will be two types of mines. a basic mine and a cloaking mine. the cloaking mine will be cloaked and when a ship gets near \"2500m\" it detonates.a player will be limited to only anchor a set amount \"depending on skills\"to build a minefield, player will have to work with others.**once anchored, the mine can not be unanchoreddamage to that of the current bombs?0.0 and wh only??????/**also, there could be a new ship that is a mine layer. it will jettison mines by targeting a section of space \"needs a ui\" or a 360^3 arch jettison..."
"i can see there being a lot of trouble with this. what is stopping a couple of corps of say 20 or so people each, locking down systems by sticking a few of these around gates.also i thought they removed mines due to the lag they caused in the first place."
"mines can not be placed within 25k of a gate. mines, if uncloaked can be targeted and fired on. there is a module that can see cloaked mines and allow you to target them."
"actually they moved mines because of the concord response. i.e.:you place a mine and then go back to high sec, someone trips your mine and you get an aggression flag. concord omgwtfbbq's you because you illegally aggressed someone."
"oh ffs... this is the third thread i've seen this month having to do with mines and minefields... learn to use eve search!!that said... eve used to have mines but were taken out due to:- lag; ever seen how much lag 20+ anchored cans cause? imagine 100s. now imagine those 100s of cans each with it's own bit of code that interacts with 100s of other players.- concord; if you set up mines in low-sec and some neutral gets hurt by them while you are in high-sec concord will deal swift \"justice.\" it works in reverse too... you set them up in high-sec and then escape to low/null-sec to avoid the wrath of concord.(note: your proposal states that they would only be usable in 0.0 and w-space... thus negating this reason)my own personal take on it? i personally like the idea of mines but looking at how to 0.0 alliances operate i can honestly say that this idea will be used, abused, and then some. it would essentially be a \"lazyman's\" way of defending chokepoints and vital system without need for a manned defense."
"so you want afk killing?what will happen: people place a few mines around a warpin on a belt. some ratter/roaming person warps in and gets bbq-ed by the mines.combine that with the afk cloaking whine we got already.also .... in the past it happened that people placed too many mines and people started lagging badly on jump in. and then funny things happened like gms moving whole fleets past the gate camp with the mines.all in all ... not really useful ... we dont need afk killing. thumbs down."
"mines already exist. ccp simply removed the ability to use them because they were terrible things to have in the game. go out and search contracts for things like anaconda mines."
"you can't search for them, but well, they do exist."
"ok i know this topic its not useful in anything but i think i could give a nice idea to the future aesthetic of the game.there should be a animation and sound to outside ships entering and exiting warp. for example if you dont get it yet:you in a random place and your friend just happen to entering warp to go to a station, so in his \"tail\" you see some nice, quiet and cute \"exotic\" particles that appear everytime you see someone going away. also if you didnt saw him you hear a low and kinda \"subliminal\" sound that tell you that somebody went to warp and was near you (like 30km max). could be as quiet as a shot of a drone.also when you still in that random place of yours you hear another distinct sound but as quiet as the other one and you \"subconsciously\" know that someone just came from warp and its near you (like 30km max again, not very close or far). maybe it dosent need animation in that because its comming from ftl or who knows.and the better thing its that you could turn off the effects as everything else right? apart that will \"help\" people that are multitasking (who isnt in eve?). please give me a hands up, i am starting to like the idea.pd: this idea came from seeing stu in case you wanna see a reference but creativity its better that copy-paste."
"/signedcompletely outside of the eve standard.must have people from different game backgrounds working on this."
"im not sure if this is the right section for this or if its been asked but as a industrialist i would like to know if it is possible for a balance sheet to be available for the wallets. profit loss statements etc. this may seem far fetched but for those of us that love the market and want better tracking of performance and sales, it would be a god send. also i would like to propose wallet divisions for everyone not just corps. are either of these viable? i would appreciate feedback either for or against and there reasoning. cheers"
"that's the reason why it will never be implemented. being able to tank concord = permaban."
"bad idea for various reasons."
"actually i spent nearly a month on an unafilliated alt asking hundreds upon hundreds of empire dwellers that avoid pvp why. their answers were routinely in the same areas. they avoid pvp because they are unfamiliar with it and the only way to \"break in\" according to the playerbase is to lose a **** pile of ships in the name of experience. the vast majority of these people really dislike the idea and find the whole concept of simply throwing away assets in that way un fun. there's a reason most of the eve playerbase still lives in high sec. pvp's only way to learn is bashing your head against a wall until suddenly it makes sense. you people can spout \"survival of the fittest\" all you like but it make's no difference. it's bad game design to leave entry into one of your most advertised features completely missing from a game. but people will continue to spout that it would ruin pvp/ruin the sandbox etc when this would be constraining enough that the individual player would eventually want for more since they didnt even have control over their team, ship, fitting, etc in these scenarios. would a group of people still play them 24/7? of course. would this detract from current meaningful pvp? haha no."
"so you practically say that they dont pvp because someone blobs them or they dont want to spend isk?solutions: i) join a bigger blob alliance than the one that blobed you ii) fly t1 cruisers/frigates until you are familiar enough to use bc iii) grow balls pick your fights iv) dont expect to be a omfg pvp god because you fly a 8b vindicatorranked stats in eve are killboards and they track the big arena of eve universe"
"while valid points obviously your \"suggestions\" aren't good enough since these avenues have been available to every eve player since it's inception. and yet we still have the vast majority of eve players avoiding pvp. maybe it's time to admit the system's broken eh?"
"i say nay. just improve faction warfare"
"a few years ago ccp did plan to do some kind of \"simulated\" pvp (before anyone shouts at me, i know that \"real\" pvp is still simulated because it is a game after all ). they got as far as doing some work on it before (paraphrasing) \"the cluster became self aware and utterly rejected the code\" or something to that effect.personally i don't see the value of risk free pvp on tq. instead i suggest you fire up the spiffy new sisi client install tool and play on there where pvp is supposed to be by consent (other than in a few free for all areas in one system) and everything costs 100isk.not 100% the same thing as your idea i admit, but you can do it right now"
"another valid opinion but again, it has been around nearly since eve's inception and obviously has done nothing for the literally thousands of eve players who have not initiated themselves into pvp despite having a desire to."
"and here you have exposed the biggest problem people have in entering pvp... \"risk aversion.\"to do pvp is more of a \"mental leap\" than anything else. you have to be willing to risk (and sometimes lose) ships in the interest beating other players. even so-called \"blobbing\" doesn't guarantee safety as there will always been a bigger \"blob\" (and in some cases, better tactics) that will counter yours.to create a \"risk-free\" pvp environment won't change this. people will still be \"risk-adverse\" and won't want to lose ships because well... what's the point?"
"a lot of the risk aversion from what i have come to understand through a month of conversation comes from the unwillingness to lose their ships without realizing why. this would give them a basis of experience to work from. giving them confidence to go out and at least try because they have gotten their feet wet. again, only suggesting this because the existing \"mechanics\" have obviously failed us."
"but you don't \"learn\" anything by being given a random ship that you have no idea how to fly or what tactics to use in the first place.and, assuming that people do learn how to pvp through this, why would they want to then go out and lose \"real\" ships that cost \"real\" isk when they can keep going back to the \"simulation\" and lose nothing? people will still be \"risk adverse\" whether or not they know how to pvp unless they can get over the fact that there will always be a chance of \"real\" death in \"real\" pvp.as far as the mechanics are concerned... those are fine. more blame is to be put on the majority of pvpers who don't wish to spend time training up people who can't get over that mental \"block\" of losing ships (believe me, i've tried my hand at this and have been constantly frustrated in my efforts due to this \"block\")."
"you would learn the exact same things you learn on sisi and you would want to go do real pvp for the same reason people dont only pvp on sisi but do in fact pvp on tq as well. your logic is incredibly flawed since we have a living and breathing example of what i speak of that hasn't killed pvp in eve yet"
"i dont think this is a good idea. battleships should be significantly slower than cruisers and frigates. this is not longer the case if bs perma mwd around 1000m/s. or even more...."
"i can already mwd around forever if i bring enough 800s with me. all it means is i have to bring my prowler alt with me if i go to 0.0 with it. an annoyance, rather than limitation."
"everything that boost blaster boats i support!ps: while your at it fix gallente ships guns and mods too!"
"okay i bothered to check it:if we just look at raw cap and ignore regen, t1 mwds, all lvl 5 skills on everything:1mn mwd uses 33 energy, incursus has 406, so 8%10mn mwd uses 135 energy, thorax has 1719, so 8%100mn mwd uses 540 energy, megathron has 7031, so 8%if you look more accurate you see it even decreases slightly. so now the difference is mainly that frigates have much higher relative cap regen than battleships, the energy cost of mwds compared to their total amount of energy is equal.imo still mwds are supposed for quick bursts of speed, not perma running, that is what abs are for. (and no that wont mean insta death for all frigs, since they can still be dual prop, and one of the main reason ab frigs fail now is that their target just permaruns mwd and lowers transversal to zero, also with ab they are way harder to track). imo definately not needed, especially because it is another nerf to blaster ships. i dont really see how it would be a boost as some apparently think. blaster ships have no reason to permarun their mwd, they burst into range and then web/scram their target and deactivate their mwd. making it easier to permarun mwds will be mainly a boost to minmatar bs, and mostly a nerf to gallente bs since it becomes much easier to kite blaster ships."
"which again was a fault of some idiotic ccp employee thinking balance meant making damage higher on projectile ships. this balance would have made far more sense and been far better reaching to affect bs than just boosting minmatar damage would have been. it would have reestabolished the old parameters set for minmatar where intentionally had lower dps, but better speed and cap superiority. i can't help that ccp ****ed up minmatar. but this change is still needed.sure mwd is meant for a quick boost of speed. explain to me how a blaster boat is going to perma run an mwd after this change when you add in their gun cap usage, web/scram cap usage, and any possible negative effects such as nos/neut. and oh yeah, there is that pesky effect that a warp scram has on mwd to. did you forget? let me refresh, k. warp scramblers are + 2 points and kill mwd. so before you keep saying omg permamwd, read the op in detail and realize that your argument is very near sighted.have you noticed how in the past 6 months to a year, there has been a strong movement away from bs in general?"
"would be nice if there was a bomb for stealthbombers that could be used for diableing cloaks for like 10 seconds within 30kmradius of it exploding"
"i had a whole rant going for this but the forum ate it. oh well, going with the simple reply...no."
"you mean...like these?"
"you are the scout of your fleet and run ahead in your covert ops. you jump into a gate camp. bubble goes up. as normal you align out of the bubble, hit the mwd and recloak. the 30km decloak smart bomb goes off and decloaks you. the dramiel tackles you and you get killed and podded.effort for them. none. chance of your survival. 0. while atm you got a decent chance of running the gate camp and they have a decent chance of killing you.you can replace your covert ops with recons or blockade runners, all 3 ship classes specifically created to run camps, and you would basically have destroyed their roles.and gate camping is really the last thing that needs a buff.that said ... not supported."
"running a gatecamp vs decloaking a covops is one of the few remaining examples of individual player skill in eve. you want to replace that with press button > receive killmail.no. get out, shut up, never post again."
"bump"
"i agree that specific electronics subsystem is useless, but i'm torn as to whether or not making it a drone bonused subsystem is the way to go since the drone offensive subsystem should be where you get the drone power from. however, i cannot currently think of anything better besides a faster lock time as previously mentioned, but that's not really better, just different. so this has my support if only to give the proteus more attention, and thus hopefully a boost."
"go do that then, if it's so easy."
"the skillbooks will be sold in any station that sell the exumer skillbook, so they will not be a outer ring exclusivity.the bpo will not be a great isk maker. the ship will be rarely lost and some hundred bpo used constantly will cover the demand easily. the price will be out of the roof the first month at worst, then the overhead on the bpo sold in jita will be a 20% max. nice gain but nothing terrific."
"having a \"regional\" forum with one forum by region in 0.0 would help perhaps making theses area of space more dynamical, mainly i bet ppl will post trading stuff or direct regional recruitement or such.even could be done for low sec but as there is no point doint empire region forum i think, as low sec regions have \"empire\" like area it would have less sense"
"/bump@op: i still think this would be a good idea."
"lol yes....remove it. i hate this effect. it hurts my eyes! tbh there dont need to be a sb effect at all."
"these effects serve absolutely no purpose whatsoever. please separate the actually relevant effects people care about (like dictor bubbles and remote repair) from the useless ones like sensor boosters and eccm. i really don't care if your ship can lock me 50% faster, so why does the game need to look like ass to show it?"
"supported, current sensor booster/eccm effects make my eyes bleed for no good reason. the old sb effect wasn't at all subtle but was at least ignorable. now it's like a ****ing disco light show or something."
"1. excessive? way to contradict yourself in your attempt to whine about cloaks.even though u admittedly switched to the wrong character by accident, it was still u so u were saying something about being clear? 2. u mean this \"threat potential\" that can be easily dealt with by watching local, the same way one would detect threats coming in from a stargate? ok, explain how a covert cyno warping in covert ships that r weaker than their t1 counterparts r so much more of a threat that u need a nerf so bad, compared to non-covert ships coming in through a stargate. seriously, what is your opinion, or least can u even make up your mind on what your opinion is? first, u say it's no problem at all, and now it's too much for u. fyi, this is the assembly hall, where ppl take one stance and stick with it to push a proposal through, not become wishy-washy in brainstorming for just an idea for a proposal.ok, this time, u say it's overpowered, despite the fact that, again, the covert ships themselves were designed to be weaker than their t1 counterparts? u got any other excuses? we all know your wishy-washy \"proposal\" is nothing more than another one of the \"whine threads\" u mentioned. i get it, u don't look wanna look stupid by not taking a firm stance and defending it. guess what--it ain't working."
"omgnot supported, cloak is just fine."
"why does everyone discriminate against my alliance?its not like we just sit in your systems all day, all nice and cloaked, gank a ratter here and there....cloak up and let an emo australian fail to disband us...leave my cloaks alone!!!!!!!!~"
"you may like ankh or may hate her, it doesn't matter anymore.as former csm all i can say is that ankh was, in her way, passionate for her task as csm and it doesn't matter anymore if you agree or disagree on her ways and views.she did 2 full terms and a short part of the 5th council x 20hours work a week invested in csm, totals around 1500hours.i'm sure that being removed from csm for ankh personally had to be very painful.what i personally dislike are the people that keep bashing and kicking people that are already knocked out on the floor.why can't yall just stop stirring up the **** and let this topic end?respectfully,extreme"
"i would agree this is flogging a dead horse that has already left the barn, which long since caught fire and burned to the ground. that said, the real dissappointment is that so many people failed to see ahnk was all about ahnk, and nothing else. many folks tried to warn the voters but were overwhelmed by the voices of the missinformed fanboys. no one that worked with ahnk in her first csm terms wanted to work with her again. she was like a spoiled child when she didn't get her way and some of us tried to let folks know.although she may have worked a lot and had \"passion\" for her efforts, i think she was net negative to the online social experiment in virtual goverment that the csm is. it is interesting though she managed to create such a large cult of personality about her claim to represent the carebears when clearly she never was able to with any effectiveness. i think one thing any csm would tell you that no matter what your views of eve might be, to be an effective member of the csm you have to play well with other members of the csm to make sure the csm can present a unified voice to ccp when needed. ahnk never learned that.i can say i am sure her removal from the csm must have been crushing for her personally. she is the sort of person that will remain bitter and angry about that for the rest of her life. if there really was an nda issue she might have also suffered a career set back that could haunt her for some time. she is also clearly no longer involved in the greater eve community in any manner and this was one of her favorite places to mine large volumes of hot gasses that maintained the size of her ego (nothing wrong with a large ego, makes for some fun times in the context of internet spaceships!). so everyone should realize she really paid a price for whatever ccp decided she did. i think way more than most eve players would have under similar situations.so what i hope folks take from the while thing isn't just about ahnk. i'd hope if there is a lesson or two its that ccp does take the nda seriously (as well as other aspects of the conduct of the csm) and that when voting for a csm candidate try and pick someone that seems to be able to work with other folks to be effective at representing you to ccp.issler"
"and for that monthly fee you get access to the servers, storage of your characters stats, ships, isk and equipment plus free additional content whenever ccp releases it. how much did they add to the subscription fee when they announced incarna, oh thats right jack and ****, so that arguement is false right from the getgo.so lets clear things up, you're complaining about a free feature that will not only improve eve but also allow ccp to make more money through other games. pretty sure most of that extra money will go into ccps flagship title which is, wait for it, eve online.but hey i know you wont pay any attention to that, because you're a troll.peace"
"sigh .. ill try one more time troll leave your mothers house and get a job or quit living off someones tax money . no the money will go into those games proving how stupid you really are. exactly how is making a pretty character and walking on a station going to help a space ship game? none... again how stupid you are. for a flagship part of the company they sure are investing allot of effort into fixing bugs in eve aren't they? whats worse your one of those idiots that think because you mined the ore the minerals are free. enough time wasted on some kid trolling. i would actually like to see black ops worked on as well not sure how thru.. never seen one used for anything other than cynos and to aggravate people bye afk cloaking. heck i am still waiting on rockets t be fixed after 5 years or so? so i figure dec 21 2012 maybe they will do some work? edited ah heck why worry with this anymore samething on these forums either a troll or a fanboi starts ranting its getting not worth the effort to even read forums"
"you're just jealous that us \"douche nozzels\" have seen a real girl naked"
"very interesting, this. well done csm!"
"second report: lagnar<U+FFFD>k."
"i kinda feel bad for ccp as no matter what they do, it'll be wrong.as someone who uses plex to extend my account, i'd rather it not used for more things in the game. i would use it if it were implemented, but raising the value of it is not in my personal interest. while i understand that adding items to the game that cost isk in essence add to the potential value of a gtc, directly adding more value to a plex hurts the players who strictly pay for their accounts using them. this can cause issues with people who struggle to pay their accounts this way and may actually hurt the subscriber base who uses time codes/plex to play. this is all speculative as gtc prices keep going up (isk wise) and i could be completely wrong :).i'm pretty sure it's been suggested, but in my opinion, it should just be a hefty fee you pay to a medical facility to remap. that or a player manufactured item. the 'drama' around microtransactions can easily be masked by just adding items to the game that aren't directly related to the gtc/plex system. furthermore, if i were ccp (i know i'm not... ) but i'd leave the whole gtc/plex system alone and do my best to not touch it period. the system works and is pretty ingenious, doing anything to it may break it. i grasp that ccp is working hard to restore the ui back to a usable state. would you mind asking them when they plan on finishing it up back to something that's just a little less frustrating.another question i had was about mail. why is this \"new\" mail system so hosed at the moment? 5 minutes to load mail and typing a mail is one of the most broken aspects of eve.anyway, good luck in iceland. i hope you guys are able to recover from hangovers to keep on the ball with these meetings."
"..."
"they could have asked the csm, and gotten the answer without upsetting the player base...e.g.: we're thinking of expanding plex use -> mt/plex is a controversial topic -> let's ask the csm.simple."
"we made this point to many different people in many different meetings.ultimately ccp will do what they feel is best (ignoring csm, players etc if they wish), but at least they could have had some idea of how badly this was going to be received and maybe got a more coherent message out before everyone (in their opinion) jumped to conclusions."
"maybe to stop you from paying someone real $ to grind for you."
"iirc in this specific instance, you may share an account, if for no other reason than it is impossible to prove that you did.speaking as a long time eve player, my advice is this: don't give your password to anyone."
"i say no bad idea. however i am all for neral remaps being available with a special kind of plex or something via mirotransaction say available 6 monthly."
"before we get a hyrbid turret tweak, fix, buff?because frankly, as a rokh pilot, i'm starting to run out of people to argue with about who's worse off. the gallente have all started cross training to machs and all i get is a damned nightmare carebear grinding machine. c'mon fix my big metal baby so i can finally pretend like i made wise ship and weapon skill choices."
"hybrids... buffs?that's just silly. why would they buff the best weapon system in the game?"
"crosstrain."
"i need a gym membership for that.. all my money goes on eve :v"
"here here, the op needs to do more research on the csm."
"very pleased with (outside of some intial drama) how this session's csm is performing. i didn't vote for several of the members, including trebor due to their campaign stances at the time. so here's me eating crow. trebor, you have gone above and beyond reporting the playerbase's concerns as well as updating us on developements as they occur. thanks for the work you and the rest of the csm have put in to make eve a better game. best of luck in iceland."
"bump"
"no"
"ccp stop wrecking the few good things left about your game"
"no, or incarna cosmetic only,as long as current subscription fees are maintained. i have no complaints paying a dollar here and there in a game that is free to play. if the game requires subscription fees, my fees should provide me with the ability to access all content (whether or not i can actually do something useful with the content is irrelevant)."
"[cosmetic only]"
"how about not creating a new font from scratch, but using a standard font, one that's scalable perhaps? and one that has nice unicode support.just use a different one and allow us to resize it to be big!"
"supported and up."
"1.0"
"my own preference would be for slight boosts to blaster tracking, boosts to railgun optimal, moderate boosts to afterburner/mwd effectiveness (and mwd cap penalty) on blaster ships (eg: incursus/enyo/myrmidon/hyperion), and perhaps an increase in base speed and shield at the expense of armour, structure, pg (how do you expect to get them going faster ;)."
"supported"
"i think this is fundamentaly flawed logic, if you are solo who else are they going to be shoting at? tank is a very relevant point.blasters need more tracking, a few ships need more fitting (ferox, brutix?, hyperion, moa, eagle)."
"the rejection was for the simple reason that the proposal didn't contain any content. go read it, there is no content besides, \"fix hybrid weapons.\"a better proposal would take the discussion from the blasters 2.0 thread and write it up as a formal proposal to the csm. that would get my vote in the next wave of group review (or \"crowdsourcing\").and trebor, crowdsourcing is awesome even if only as a means of providing the populace with bread and circuses :)"
"there were better posts for rails and blasters, as you point out. csm did respond by saying \"ccp said they are aware of the situation already\" and it was kinda left in ccp's hands to sort out hybrids. a good fix would likely be something more radical than messing with range or dps. an example is how they turned projectiles from worst in the game to a good weapon, ignoring the \"more range, more dps\" clamor from projectile users on the forums. train lasers or projectiles and they'll get to hybrids eventually. i've trained up both while waiting for hybrids, so i can patiently wait for hybrids to be worth using (compared to alternatives) again."
"its not the eye candy that makes me want to play eve its the game's mechanics, you can have the most visually stunning game in the world where everyone is like \"ooooh, aaahhh\" for a couple months but if the gameplay is bugged its life expectancy is not going to be long. i think there are more important aspects that need to be focused on first. in saying that.. the fact that we will be redesigning our toons in the new expansion should give you an indicator that these things are being addressed in due course."
"this game caught a lot of attention for being pretty. then it got grittier. well gritty can be pretty too, so let's bring the pretty back in the form of boom boom."
"this should be out with incarna!"
"bump"
"wtf ccp ?i <3 dinosaurs, if not i wouldn't have played this game for so long in the first place"
"dear ccp, would u please concider to give us something usefull for christmas this year?to help u i have decided to open this topic, and i would like to ask my fellow eve players to come up with something funny and something that is actualy usefull to use and post it here so we can help ccp speed up stuffs so they have more time to balance stuff that actualy does matter. i will start with something funny & sooo cool:- one time limited christmas chart as commodity item - a christmas tree launcher that fires christmas trees. christmas tree launcher:an otherworldly glow emanates from this strange and outlandish-looking device. its missile tubes look suspiciously capable of fitting a huge christmas tree, and from looking at it, you get the distinct impression that quite an amount of minerals went into its making. this device has been found during christmas 2010 at icelandic excavations near a hot volcano. attributes:capacity: 50m3volume: 50m3tech level: 1structure hp: 40rate of fire: 3 seccharge rate: 1used with (charge group): used christmas treesfitting:requires high power slotcpu usage: 25 ftpower grid usage: 1 ftcan only be fit on: battlecruisers and higherused christmas trees:this christmas tree used to shine in the houses of people that celebrated christmas. now it is just a old tree. onoes.volume: 10m3max velocity: 1500 meter per secondinerta modifier: 1,000structure hitpoints: 100hprate of fite bonus: 0%explosive damage: 250used with (launch group): missile launchermax flight time: 1000 secps: trolls wow is --------> that way"
"don't tell me what to do!"
"you want something useful?how about a client that actually works without glitching/crashing every damn time we turn around.please... go troll somewhere else op."
"ccp should un-melt existing snowballs, so we can use them with the snowball launcher."
"supported."
"up."
"i support this, but more as a step on industrial modules for tech3 than a simple mining subsystem.would like a subsystem allowing something like 2-4000m2, like a transport ship"
"i like the idea of a very survivable mining vessel, but perhaps making it have a very low sig radius instead of high warp strentgh. since a mining vessel spends relative long time stationary.it shouldn't be impossible to scan, just very hard, so it will take both skill and determination to locate it, if the pilot has taken taken the option of fitting for it/using implants etc.imo, the ship should come close to the hulk( 75-90% of a hulk, at max ) if fitted for max yield, but have the option for fitting for high survivability, at the expense of mining yield.since the main defence would be a low sig radius and relative high agility/speed, it should be a relative small vessel and nimble vessel with a relative small cargo hold, more and less forcing it to work as part of a mining team, with either an orca or a hauler.i believe this could make for some fun and profitable gameplay, playing cat and mouse with the typical low sec and wh inhabitants :-)"
"name goliathrole- almost hulk mining rate while having a large cargo hold and high tankif its t3 it needs differnt mods,so lets say a set for stealth ( hard to scan down, warp strength, maybe cloak things, ight throw in the anti bubble thing from cruisers, but no mining bonus, maybe only allow 2 highs with this. less tank of course, but it be able to move through null sec without being killed in camps.tank mods for +resist and shield ammount basicly make this a mining battleship, but more resist, it be very hard to gank but a tastey km for those who do.mineing larger mining ammounts, faster ice cycle time, gas harvesters? and more cargo.combat? allow turret/missile hardpoints ( reduced pg/cpu for lets say heavy/cruise missile launchers) bonus's to dmg mods, bassicly, make it a trapremmember mix and match, have all stealth and you can mine, but not much all mining = get ganked, huge loss, all combat and u cant mine at all, but mix and match some tank, some mining, if ur in low/null/wh space put in some stealthyness and u have a very effective miner this would need to be expensive material wise imo"
"thanks for all the support and ideas. i really do hope this t3 exhumer will eventually spark with the high-ups. pls keep adding thoughts and suggestions and tell others to check it out as well and to reply pls. the more hype this gets, the more they may actually think about it. thanks again everyone and remember: we are who make eve what it is and together we can hopefully get the big boys to look our way."
"hello all,i have started this topic as instructed by ccp in response to a petition i started about a week ago. after much time doing alliance logo design for many friends. as a whole we have decided that its about time ccp adds the feature for custom designed corp logos as well. but it is not something that we can get accomplished without the support of the eve members. so i am starting this thread in hopes of getting peoples feedback and support to push for this feature. for those eve members who are not sure what the custom logo feature is for alliances it can be viewed at this link..."
"seriously its clearly the dumbest idea to give these ships a armor rep bonus:cap using active tank, mwd, guns, and tackle means disaster. most blaster ships don't have enough power grid to fit anything better than wimpy electrons when trying to fit armor reps. i'd like to see a blaster ship maintain tank and gank without chewing through cap boosters.all blasters should have a mwd cap reduction bonus that makes them cap stable with mwd. this should balance the playing field a bit in my opinion."
"i agree actually, most amarr ship get a laser cap reduction bonus and i think the gallente should have to suffer a cap reduction bonus too :)"
"is this really a request for ccp to look at blasters/blaster boats overall?there's a thread on this forum dealing with the issue already: blasters 2.0."
"the problem will be replacing an existing bonus with that one, which would be bad :("
"about 2 years ago, we received a very sweet expansion package called \"apocrypha\". this shiny new expansion, or patch, as you call it, brought us tech 3. since then, we fell in love with them. now, 2 years after that, tech 3 is still loved and used universwhile in eve's world. but the time has come to upgrade the tool ccp gave us.it's time to get more tech 3.imagine a tech 3 battleship roaming in level 4-5 missions or a tech 3 frigate pass by you like a lightning bolt. imagine a tech 3 covert ops geared battleship fleet using their short jump drive and attack the enemy from the behind.opinions and suggestions are welcome. trolling and \"cool story bro\" like replies are not tolerated."
"putting this in your op is like waving raw meat at a pack of hungry dogs. you know that, right?that aside, i would love to see more tech iii ships - especially battleships, since those are some of my favorites."
"there was talk about a year ago on forums of a desire for t3 frigates. if memory serves me right, a dev even replied with a \"we'd like to do this soon\" kind of response. i would support a new t3 frigate, as i did in the previous thread. t3 battleship... i don't know. maybe some day."
"ultimately i think we will get more tech iii ships, but probably after incarna. ccp has alot of stuff on their plate with the next two expansions that i kinda doubt they've made room for tech iii."
"i would much rather see a tech3 battleship than a tech3 frigate."
"the frigate range is already completely saturated, with half of the existing ships outclassed (there's basically no reason to ever fly an electronic attack frigate, most of the assault frigs, half of the faction ships, or the vast bulk of the t1 range). massively customisable t3 frigates would only serve to make this problem worse, with even more overlap between available shiptypes and even more of the existing frigates made obsolete by the new additions."
"as we know eve is a fairly time-consuming game. it is not uncommon for oe to spend six hours straight in front of his computer playing eve. during this tyme, you most likely will have to alt-tab, be it skype, youtube, or whatever. fullscreen does not make it easy. window mode helps, but the borders around the screen are annoing. alot of new games now have borderless window mode. in this mode switching to other applications is instant,and it also allows multy-monitor setups to be used to their full potential."
"use evemon? it makes window-mode to look like fullscreen"
"either a \"north\" or \"ship heading\" indicator would be useful for those occasions when i'm zoomed out far enough to not be able to see my ship."
"supported"
"yup. the tactical overlay, is not. please upgrade it. also, the white spot should report the actual distance from target. ty"
"there are some other possible solutions to mines.1) require a corp ship to be on grid and be \"connected\" to the mine for it to be active. (like the way drones work - so no cloaky mine layers)2) make mines have a high sig radius so they become bc+ killers (kinda like bombs).3) use standard anchoring range limits (2500m or w/e it is) to prevent stacking mines4) allow mines to be damaged by smarties and bombs, and targetable by other weapons.5) if you want to make mines cloak, then give dessies an anti-cloaking pulse (also in database iirc). incidentally this would help shut up people who whine about cloakers, and give dessies a role."
"no"
"it is a bit backasswards."
"definitely. more illustrious effects never hurt. i also support everything that other guy said too...especially that 3-point-curve around planets while warping."
"hithis issue has been brought up several times in similar ways, but in the light of incarna and with the new character creation it should be reviewed again.while the old intro was not really informativ from a sandbox-point-of-view, it explained the lore and how the factions became what they are.maybe it could be added as an optional video with an icon just above the faction symbols in the new creation, so that every new player could watch if he is not sure which race to choose."
"i miss that old video, and i agree that it should be available as a background for race selection."
"i remember that the old intro gived me the most powerfull sensation, when aura said \"...destiny rightfully yours\" and the screen when pitch black with the white eve online letters i was so \"omgomgomgomgomg\". that thing made me keep in trial until i found my corp."
"sounds good, but idk about the animations. but i like the idea of knowing that someone went or came from warp without having to check hard the overview all the time. and isnt gonna make jita worse."
"the two camps i can think of are star trek versus star wars warp animations. in star trek, a ship exiting or entering the grid is accompanied by a bright flash of light. in star wars, the ship simply disappears - just like the current eve mechanic.yes, i'd love to have aura provide some kind of audiovisual alert of ships nearby entering or leaving warp. perhaps exiting via warp would be accompanied by a \"pop\" sound (like water closing in around a hole), while ships entering warp would be accompanied by a \"splurk\" sound (like a drop of water hitting a concrete surface, or a soap bubble popping). i only think of these since we're dealing with the creation/dissipation of warp \"bubbles\" :)"
"still there no sounds in space, but it would be great for the science fiction aspect of the video game, don't forget going at sound speed make crazy noise, how about a warp speed, it same thing... but its a good idea, like you in fleet and hearing enemy fleet warping to you would be nice effects."
"sounds awsome :p"
"i would like to request strong consideration that commanders can enter into a training mode against other players in their own corporation. the training mode would allow members of corporations to engage other members within their corporation in certain operations. i understand that a commander can opt to take missions from factions/agents and i like that ability, but most militaries have a train as you fight protocol. in training, commanders are tasked to use their best ability to overcome a enemy.in eve, we do not have this ability that i know of. although programming is not a simple task, i think it can be done with great benefit of the commanders and corporations. in the combat mode, there would be a failsafe mechanism that prevents a commander from destroying the ship of the other commander. it is even possible (with a bit of programming effort) that a post-combat analysis program would be generated that evaluates the action of all commander involved in the training exercise. this is not a priority though. your thoughts and guidance on elevating this please."
"hi,its called sisi/singularity/test server :dtake your corp and practice pvp there or arrange a few corps to get some blob fights (read rulez about what is allowed, i think they dont allow t2 rigs - scaps but i'm not sure)."
"i have recently bought up bpos, and find it difficult to keep track of all the bpos i have, and have on occasion bought multiple copies accidentily.i feel that it would be useful if the market would note if you already have it, in a similar way to the skills"
"actually all they need to is add a search feature to the blueprints tabs in sci & ind. then you could easily see which ones you have and which ones the corp owns."
"for my first proposal i wanted there to be a new voting option under the corporation window to split the number of existing shares. for example if you propose a shares split of 3:1 then if it is approved everyone who currently holds shares in the company will have three times as many shares and the company as a whole will have three times as many shares.the reason for this is that if a company wanted to do a stock split, then they would have to manually send all the shares to each person in the proportional amount which can be time consuming.second thing i wanted to propose is that if a single person or corporation own's 10% or more of another corporation then they should be able to propose votes in the corporation regardless of whether they are a member of the corporation. if a single shareholder or a corporation wons more than half of the shares they should be able to implement actions that have been voted on such as ceo removal.tell me what you think of my proposals and whether you see anything wrong with them."
"supported."
"1.0"
"do this"
"those are some good ideas."
"actually, you could substitute \"good guys\" for \"police\" and it conveys a similar meaning, but i looked up the concord assembly description and it does mention policing: (note it doesn't have to be a child, it could a wife, a father, anyone you care about...it's just an analogy meant to help make the point)concord is an independent organization founded a century ago to facilitate negotiations between the races to improve relations, as well as to foster inter-stellar trade through policing and regulations. starting as a fledgling meeting ground for diplomats concord has in the decades since it was founded slowly increased its power and influence. it has become an entity independent of the races, as it is able to largely fund its own operation through customs, confiscation of contraband goods, and other means."
"so combining your post before this one, what exactly is it about this child bleeding to death in eve that would warrant such a change? oh right, there's no such thing 'cause it's a game. so it's not like death is permanent here, seeing as how it's a...game...might wanna step away from the screen once in a while and enjoy that star in our real solar system."
"thread locked for lack of contents."
"just a thought, use the api and create that app yourself? you might want to check the industry or the market discussion forum, maybe such tool exists already."
"i agree."
"if you guys are so mad about the game, so frustrated with how it doesn't let you do what you want to do (sounds kinda like something a spoiled kid would say), then quit. eve is better off without you.that said, i agree with the op that black ops should either have a bigger fuel bay or use less fuel."
"thanks for bringing this back on point as previous posters decided to rabble rabble over nothing in particular...much to my bemusement"
"you realize eccm makes you harder to scan down, right?"
"one of the consequences of the whole plex for remaps / microtransactions blowup is that it really hammered home the need for csm to have access to the ccp backlogs (just as they have access to ours). this whole situation could have been avoided if csm had known what ccp wanted to do at an earlier stage; we could have raised a red flag and said \"gee, if you do this in this way, you will get player rage.\"csm made a very forceful argument at the summit that we need backlog access, and this was exhibit one in our list of reasons why."
"i'm real confused. seems like you truly believe l4 income is the source of 0.0 issues?"
"would be nice if you would post a link with that quote of vuk in order in what context he replied./x"
"for context:"
"i'm just wondering how empire is being scapegoated here? you're assuming the \"chain\" (presumably, the isk chain) is warped on that end, but how would you classify the \"risk,\" comparison of hardcore mission farming to a similarly hardcore anomaly farm in your own space?i personally think it's more dangerous to fly an efficient (read as: faction fit at least) mission ship in empire than it is to park a carrier in an nc anomaly chain for hours on end. i also would like to point out, with a reasonable asessment of lp/isk saturation at present, anomaly income nearly doubles the rate of isk/hr being generated.furthermore, nullsec is empty because of the politics of power. you cannot possibly be blind to this issue. sov. mechanics did not make coalitions of 10k players. deep nullsec stays empty because players can only be added to nullsec as space is made (and offered) to them by exsiting renters. to not be a renter means your tcu will die horribly within days, if not hours.i suppose the bottom line here is: do you actually view the problems of nullsec (and perhaps eve in general) in this light? if so, can you explain why?"
"darkness comes across as a moron and vuk gives the appearance of having some understanding of how stuff works. the more isk people have, the more they are willing to fight and not stress about losing ships. the nc situation is because the swarms of n00bs want to have space too and there is safety in numbers. most people move out of the nc once they have isk and experience, but fresh n00bs are always eager to step into their shoes. i'm talking about the avg nc member when talking about n00bs btw, much of their alliance leadership has always seemed pretty solid. as long as ccp actively encourages people to form 1 super gigantic blob, the nc will be hard to dislodge. as soon as there are strategic things that can and should be done at the small gang level the nc will suffer as their competence at the individual pilot level has consistently been pretty bad."
"originally by: vuk lau just as a quick comment. its only a myth that 0.0 alliances are rich.its easy to pontificate and throw random bull**** like this out there when one is easily feeding multiple accounts via alliance tax income, alliance corp income, renter tabs, moon **** etc.a given corp or alliance is only as rich as the greedy ****ers running it when it comes to nullsec.pretty simple really."
"i think the point being made is that most alliances are not wealthy. individuals in the alliances are wealthy. this does not come from moon gold. i've spit those numbers out multiple times in these \"waaaa, 0.0 alliances are rich, not fair!\" threads.basically, it boils down like this: it takes a lot of people in an alliance to hold moons. it also takes a lot of infrastructure with fairly high supply/maintenance costs to maintain a presence in 0.0. an individual can actually make considerably more passive income running r&d agents in high sec than their share of the passive income of moon gold is in a big alliance. additionally, an individual doesn't have fixed costs running r&d agents. now, add to that the income from grinding on lvl 4 missions and you're talking good money.granted, an individual running plexes in 0.0 will make more than running lvl 4 missions. but the alliance as a whole does not benefit from that other than to retain players who may or may not contribute to defense of the alliance's income sources (moon gold)."
"you say that, and yet it's rather obvious that this is not the case. else the wild and exorbatant spending of large 0.0 blocks would not exist. i don't wonder for a second whether or not there are rich and poor members of these alliances. i'm quite certain the broader spectrum exists. but, no alliance, and espcially not a juggernaught coalition like the nc, is making meager income. the bills are paid, the massive amount of infrastructure is still expanded, and supercaps are still coming out like left and right... and this is all prior to benefit programs which massively out-spend taxation on the common corp member."
"it is supposed to prevent people from paying someone to grind standings for them. it gives ccp a strong defense if they are sued in a rl court by a player who gets their stuff jacked after sharing their account."
"it might be, but first i will need to check the data base and see what has been added and or catelogued already on that compelation."
"great idea, vector would be pointing forward i hope, for engine trails need the rear"
"no.thank you"
"no"
"no"
"whereas~ outposts are being deployed in such numbers that almost 1 in 5 systems in sov 0.0 have an outpost in themwhereas~ outposts are no longer a major alliance level project to deploy, but are now easily within the means of any old 0.0 corpwhereas~ outposts are no longer just about economic infrastructure, but are now the basis of defensive sovereigntyi propose that a method of destroying them be put in game. now simply making an outpost disappear has all sorts of problematical implications, so what i'm actually proposing is a way to wreck them.the items involved are deployable modules like sbus or tcus. i propose an equivalent manufacturing cost of 500 million isk at today's material prices.to wreck a station requires that there be no sovereignty in the system, and that the outpost be reduced to zero shields and armour (ie: an outpost that has recently been captured). once deployed, the module will take 12 hours to activate. successfully onlining a tcu during this period will cancel the demolition timer.wrecking a station has the following effects:(1) all station upgrades are irrevocably destroyed(2) all station services are irrevocably destroyed, with the sole exception that ships can be assembled (but not fitted)(3) all market orders are immediately cancelled, with the isk and items being returned to wallets and hangars respectively. market taxes are not refunded. items and ships in a wrecked station cannot be contracted. the outpost no longer appears as a market location.(4) docked ships remain in player ship hangars, but once undocked, they cannot return.(5) player item hangars are accessible from space but only by their owner.(6) the station wreck remains in place permanently.(7) medical clones are immediately destroyed. jump clones remain in place but can no longer be created.(8) the station wreck does not appear on overview as a station, but as a container. it is no longer a celestial object.conceptually, the station wreck is essentially a giant corp hangar array that you cant put anything in to, only take stuff out of. freighters can collect items from station wrecks.i think these conditions allow meaningful infrastructure destruction, and a viable way to counter \"outpost spam\" as a defensive strategy, whilst at the same time maintaining the \"safe haven\" for player assets for people who occasionally have to spend more than 12 hours away from the game.comments and suggestions welcomed."
"thats a good idea! supported!"
"yeah. stop the outpost spam!"
"supported!does that mean you can jc into the hangar? they should be destroyed also.* what happens to the players who were docked before the station was wrecked?"
"support everything that supports more destruction"
"ty, but dont forget to tick the little button thingreally it should but clones can be very significant assets (eg: pirate implants), and the idea behind my proposal is to destroy the station, not individual player assets in a way that they cant counter. obviously it seems inconsistent to leave jump clones intact, but the over-riding principle of the outpost as a safe asset store takes precedence, i feel. and ccp have said they feel this way also - it's a prime reason why we cant destroy outposts right now. if we're going to allow asset destruction then we dont need to monkey about with all the other refinements, we can just go ahead and vaporise the thing.edit: and it's not any more inconsistent than new station owners being able to remove med clones but not jump clones. the principle here is the same.also, i'm all in favour of creating gameplay situations. daring high-risk operations to extract assets from a wrecked station (and sneaky treacherous operations to hijack said loot) seem like all kinds of awesome to me.good question. i'm going to go with \"nothing much - except that they suddenly have no access to station services so they cant fit or insure ships, and everything on the market is suddenly unavailable\". being in a wrecked station is much like being in a permanently reinforced pos."
"excellent idea, and i hope to see this implemented."
"*cough* credit *cough*but i'm all for it."
"sounds to me like a proper workaround on the current problem, why outposts shouldn<U+FFFD>t be destructable.for more wrecks in space!"
"i'd like to see also a proposal \"from now on only 1 outpost per constellation\""
"actually i'm all in favour of allowing multiple outposts per system. for one thing, the reason so many systems have outposts is that you cant put more than 1 in a system. for another, conquering (and with my proposal, wrecking) 2+ outposts in one system is much easier than dealing with 2+ outposts (and 2+ hubs and 2+ tcus and 2+ cyno jammer pos) in 2+ systems.people want to build outposts. people should be allowed to build outposts if they want to and can afford them (sandbox hey?). but the flip side of that is that other people should be allowed to set them on fire and then gun down the inhabitants as they run out screaming."
"as long as either the cap on outposts per system is removed or once the outpost is destroyed another can be put in that system. i am in favour of the former not the latter though.but excellent idea but i think the online time for the module should be longer, say 24 hours."
"i like, solves all concerns without erasing some poor sods entire possessions.keeping jumpclones seems a fair idea. assuming that the destoyed station would not allow you to jump to another clone from it, it gives people one chance to use their jc for a snatch and run op to get their stuff back.i would suggest have the destroyed station remain a celestial object for as long as items remain within it, as it creates a piece of terrain to fight over/set ambushes. etc. once it is empty, it becomes a large collidable object (becoming merely an intresting bit of scenery)"
"1.0"
"bear in mind that to capture the station, the attacking alliance has already endured 4 reinforce timers of up to 3 days. the defenders have had plenty of opportunity to save their station, and my proposal would still give them an extra 8 hours.have mercy. even invaders need to sleep eventually."
"this could give the art department something to do too - re design each station environment with crap thrown everywhere and everything broken down.you wis people could even later ask for a \"space suit\" that would allow you to walk in broken stations - a type of exploration maybe allowing some sort of salvage."
"i like"
"2 problems i see with the proposal as stated:1.) station becomes a container, isn't a celestial anymore, etc. - so...how do people get to the station to get their stuff if destroyed? are people going to be expected to bookmark all their outposts in the eventuality they get destroyed so they can retrieve their stuff from the infinity that is space? also, as stated, it removes a decent pvp/ambush location to make them no-longer celestials....however i do understand that the goal is to avoid 17 outpost wrecks in a system with a lot of turnover/value.2.) ships can be accessed via ship hanger, but not redocked. -and- items are accessed from space. - doesn't this seem a bit inconsistent? in order to get ships, you must dock, but, since you can't return to the station you can only do this in a pod. i'd suggest a change to make it always be able to be docked at (and treat items in the hanger like a loot can spawned from salvaging a full ship - you can tae from it, but not put stuff in). or you can make the station never able to be docked at. ships would have to be removed via hauler or capital ship (for assembled ships). though you'd likely have to allow contracts to take place at those wrecked stations if that was the case.also, on a final note. why would anyone want to destroy an outpost? if there is no drawback to controlling an outpost, and in order to use the outpost demolisher, you'd have to take the station to structure anyways, then why not simply take control of the outpost? who would want to spend 500m to destroy something that would make you money to keep around?"
"because sometimes alliances just start wars to have some fights and suddenly they end up being huge spaceholders, they never wanted to be ;)also it is a nice additional option for merc contracts ;)"
"outposts are anchored at planets, not in deep space. even if you've forgotten at which planet the outpost was anchored, it shouldn't take long to find it.i dont see how the ambush potential is reduced. people get ambushed at pos, and indeed even at safespots. and yeah we definitely dont want the overview cluttered with wrecks. i dont want to propose anything that makes eve's ui more difficult or cluttered. i envisage the wreck working like a ship maintenence array in a pos. you dont dock at smas, you approach them and board a ship inside them. another alternative to using a pod would be to fly a disposable ship to get to the wrecked station, then transfer to your ship in the wreck.i definitely dont want to see ships able to dock at wrecked stations because that cancels out half the reason for wrecking them in the first place.there are many reasons to want to wrreck an outpost. (1) poorly placed outposts can be a horrible strategic liability. (2) revenge, role-playing reasons or just plain spite.(3) sabotage - remember, anyone can anchor the demolition module, so it offers excellent game play opportunities for 3rd parties to mix things up. imagine ransoming a station!(4) scorched earth - the defending alliance might want to stop a valuable staaging point falling in to hostile hands.(5) complacency - alliances with many many stations are incredibly dificult to invade, and they have become complacent about losing a station or two to smaller alliances, because they can just exhaust their opponents in to submission with reinforce timer griefing. station wrecking allows smaller invaders the opportunity to do lasting damage if the defenders try to rely on this strategy.(6) gameplay - some people dont like the idea of 0.0 being literally filled with outposts, and would prefer to see empty space (7) economics - if you have a station, you also need to pay for a hub, cyno jammer pos etc etc. a station that isn't much used is an economic liability."
"although i am more biased towards a 'drop table' kind of solution, any option to destroy outposts is better than none."
"very well refuted, i like your arguments and reasons and i support this now/bandwagon"
"definitely a step in the right direction. i'm not very fond of the \"wrecking module\" idea though, i'd rather see some sort of \"bring enough explosives, fill up the station, and boom !\" (this could use a several hours long timer too, operatives need time to carefully place charges at weak spots )but maybe this will lead to some complete removal of wrecked outposts someday. maybe they could slowly degrade and disappear after a year or so (wild dreams... )"
"the precise cinematics of how the station is destroyed aren't really important - heck, rather than make this a deployable module, this could one day be an amazing incarna gameplay option if ccp so desired, as long as the basic structure is preserved re: sov requirements and timers. making it a deployable sbu-style object was rather unimaginative on my part, and i'd love to hear more interesting suggestions such as yours."
"taking the idea of attackable station services and really giving the idea teeth is something i do like the sound of.not sure i'd go quite as far as described here though."
"hells yea!"
"whereas~ obvious troll because anyone with internet can see there isnt even 1 outpost in every 10 systems in 0.0whereas~ this plan would make the vast majority except areas held by the same alliance for an incredibly long time complete ****ing wastelends because people would simply get tired of rebuilding. increasing the population in empire and decreasing that in 0.0 further.great plan!"
"some very interesting creative ideas in this proposal...deserves some consideration by ccp, i think!"
"old but awesome idea, and for once very well structured. i would however make it more expensive, so that you elevate it to a weapon of disdain annex mass destruction.just one question, what about a possible angle for rebuilding the outpost. there is after all, an empty hulk of transformed veldspar left in space. could be a nice isk sink."
"*cough*providence*cough*if you build it, more will come, if you desteroy it, they will rebuild.if you fought and died fro this space, defending or attacking, ofc you'll rebuild, otherwise whats the point?yep, dominion was an amazing expansion."
"definitely in support of these.aa is on sisi right now and makes a huge difference.as a salvager, more varied and accurate wrecks would be nice to interact withbattle scarring, accurate weapon animations should be standardrailguns also sound weedyi've had the same idea for warping around planets, it seems like a pretty obvious thing to implementsuch smallish changes could really add a lot to the sci fi experience of eve."
"bring back the old cyno effect!!! that is the only graphical update that is needed. otherwise, yeah they sound ok."
"lol u guys who think drake needs a buff are crazy and actual evidence would prove u to be entirely wrong... observe.eve-kill top 20:rank ships kills1 drake 2195932 hurricane 764753 zealot 547854 vagabond 319035 megathron 298546 harbinger 276917 tempest 261918 abaddon 223559 dramiel 2127910 sabre 2092611 armageddon 2081812 hound 1897413 rapier 1822614 scimitar 1801015 muninn 1792816 manticore 1736517 apocalypse 1634118 cynabal 1236519 loki 1094820 myrmidon 10796edit pls note thats approx the same amount as the next 5 shiptypes combined ! it seems real world data (as in eve world) ****es on ur bonfire quite definitively. there's actually a bit of a call from some players that this demonstrates that drake is op, i don't agree, i think it's just a fad and a counter will emerge to the current fotm drake gangs. but what is patently clear is that this thread and all u whiners are full of ****. the playerbase has spoken with their 200k kills with drakes and they say drakes are very good."
"supported!!!!! give the people options!!!!"
"yes plx. knead theese theese daiz."
"no godamnit"
"no thanks ccp"
"just so you know, cpu usage is measured in teraflops (tf), and powergrid is measured in megawatts (mw). neither is measured in feet (ft).this does sound pretty fun...can we get variations of the trees with different ornaments for different range/damage/etc.?"
"i have a much sillier idea:christmas mall!it's a building you can build during the holidays on your colonies, and while the holidays lasts, you can see it twinkle from orbit. ofcourse it needs a lot of power.. so i'd say.. 1000mw power and 800 tf cp will do.if it must do something usefull, how about having it generate 1000 isk per hour?( shoppers getting stuff ), which can be increased by loading it with tourists."
"eve online is a cocktail of various ships, piloting specializations, and choices. bonuses, optimizations, bonuses, and synergy of modules allow ships to perform specific roles to varying degrees of success. do you fit for serious repair ability, a large buffer, or speed? damage output or defense? good tracking or high alpha? compared to other vessels, the drake is a ship of many merits which paint it as one exceptional to others. lets think about the drake's various advantages for a few moments.the drake is inexpensive and has relatively low skill requirementsthe drake uses missiles, which gives it some guaranteed level of dps against any target in range. heavy missile drakes can hit any target within lock range, while ham drakes can strike out to maximum warp disruptor point range.if the target is in range, the missile will always hit unless the missile is outrun. very few ships are capable of outrunning missiles today.passive shield tanks and missiles give the drake near-immunity to capacitor warfarethe drake slaughters speed shipsthe drake does not have to compromise between tank and dpsthe drake's assets are the embodiment of risk aversion. it does not compromise and it does not suffer weakness. the massive hitpoint buffer and modest dps lowers the drake's battlefield target priority substantially, and all the while, the ship can comfortably do what it does best; hit hard, and soak up damage like a sponge. the drake's only time of weakness is when the numbers reach the critical mass to prioritize alpha strike - presuming there isn't a higher priority target on the field. worse still, the drake is a ship that almost anyone can fly very quickly. i can think of no vessel that embodies what's wrong with eve more than this one.so how do we fix the drake? the answer lies not in hurting the drake's ability to put out raw damage, but in breaking the drake's ability to equip a capacitor warfare resistant tank without compromising on damage output.i propose reducing the drake's cpu output by 25 points, and the grid by 75 points. this will bring the drake in line with the rest of the ships in this game by forcing pilots to make a choice: do you want to optimize for dps, or do you want to optimize for defense? you should not have the cpu and or grid to do both without compromise."
"show me on the killboard where the mean drake touched you"
"so now drake pilots will have to buy the 1% pg/cpu implant?yeah that will ballance it..drakes arent that great and you'll hit for crap damage a mwd vaga\"hint: speed affects missile damage\""
"the drake is fine."
"what, you want to them to be more like gallente and less like minmatar ships?"
"not supported for all the reasons mentioned in the original thread"
"now i've seen it all.everyone else complains and gripes about the drake for its insanely infamous ehp on shield tanks and yet here you are trying to buff it.either your totally out of your mind or your just that bad of a noob.not supporting.ps: yeah... your obviously a noob."
"you mean a not helpful bonus with a helpful one?it might screw over mission runners flying megathrons, but then they will just fly a domi like everyone else."
"the problem i see with and mwd cap reduction bonus is that a cap stable mwd is a bigger bonus to a kiting ship than an in your face ship. it also doesn't really help you maintain tank and gank without using cap boosters once you're in range with the mwd off.i think that it would be more useful to get a bonus that both reduced the max cap penalty for fitting a mwd (as we've already seen on a couple of ships) and the mass addition penalty when you activate a mwd or ab. that way you better cap regen for running guns/reps and extra cap for a couple of mwd cycles along with better speed and agility to get you into range.as always though, the main problem is still the guns."
"cool story bro!anyway, ya more tech 3!i would go for tech 3 bc or bs, the frigate will be a welcome addition aswell. even if it becomes another dramiel (speed wise), your just have to gimp the frigs firepower for more speed, which is the beauty of tech 3."
"not until we see the ships we currently have being used for their intended purposes and filling those niches effectively.there are far too many ship types (assault frigates, electronic attack ships, black ops battleships) that are either useless due to poor balancing or just being outclassed by easier to train into t1 ships. i, for one, would like ccp to invest time on polishing the ships we already have to make them all attractive options for their costs. whether that means making t2 frigates cheap to produce or buffing them, changing ships' niches completely, or doing complete redesigns, it doesn't matter as long as they all become worth training into.how many characters have you seen flying eas's? i've seen maybe two, and i know one was doing it because he had so much money and nothing else to train into he cared about that he could afford to lose them without a second thought. black ops battleships have been shown to be the least flown ship-type in eve, and are hardly useful within their niche due to limitations of the hulls.eve has plenty of stuff already, and i would like lots of useful ships at the tech 2 level over brand new shiny tech 3 ships."
"cool story bro"
"there's really no niche left for t3 ships...as said above, the frigate market is saturated. if t3 frigates were introduced, they would replace pretty much every existing frig on the market, with the possible exceptions of the rifter (for cheap pvp) or the kestrel (for noob mission runners starting the game).t3 bcs or bss just don't seem practical. the t3 cruiser can be fit to tank and/or dps like a battleship. in general, the only weakness of the t3 cruisers is ehp and/or cost.a t3 bc would replace the t3 cruiser in almost every area (more slots, more fitting, more ehp, slightly less maneuverable - maybe). a t3 bs....well, what would even be the point? should it tank and dps like a dread? how do you keep a t3 bs from replacing marauders and faction battleships across the board, unless you make it worse at specialized roles than their t1 counterparts? and if that were the case, who would buy them?no, t3 cruisers are a nice niche, but eve doesn't need more \"this ship is better than any other comparable ships\" than it already has."
"no, more t3 hulls would be a bad thing that would be stepping even further from the modular nature that t3 should bei want to see a revamp of t3 in general that would make it really modular not what we have now which is just adding more module slots to a cruiser hullas i first heard about t3 i hoped t3 to become like this and i got very disappointed about it being just another step up the ladder so change the t3 hull to a 'core' around witch you can stick modules that make the ship a frigate a cruiser a battle-cruiser or a battleship or even a hybrid how about a battleship that gets bonuses to small guns huge tracking and range bonuses and maybe a web bonus too?or a frigate that uses mediums weapons and is intended to kill cruisers? that is what i always hoped t3 would be and still think it should be.~o~"
"agreed."
"^^this - i have been doing this for months. even dual boxing on the second montitor!!!"
"makes sense"
"yes! \o/"
"following is a compromise solution that i could live with personally ( expecting that ccp will push this thru in one form or another anyway ) :- remaps for plex get limited to twice per year, this in addition to the first newbie free remap and the regular yearly remap.this would make the microtransaction more in line with a subscription/service fee, and results in a maximum yearly subscription cost of 210 instead of 180.- character transafers become also plexable, 2 plexes for a character transfer = 30, a slight revenue increase for ccp from the old 20 and another option for the players that have ingame currency.- i don't see how portrait swaps will fit into incarna, so these should be removed, players should be able to get surgery done in a hospital, haircuts at the barber and tattoo's at the tattoo parlor, all player run.- instead of making all the fluff in incarna subject to microtransactions, the fluff items should all be player run ( making furniture, decorating, barber, tattoo, hospital, ship paint job, etc ), but the corp offices and shop rentals could be paid in plex, like 1 plex per 6 months, which would make the maximum subscription cost 240 per year.- no other items would become plexable.if the system was implemented as outlined above, i could see myself getting subbed again.if you could support this, then check the box, if not, just reply and explain why :p"
"supported"
"it's not like i don't agree with your point of view but aren't you assuming a lot here. remaps for plex: a limit might be nice, but is it really necessary? what i mean is that the problem with it is mainly because of the principle of the thing and your proposal doesn't change that. there also aren't going to be thousands of people remapping their attributes every few weeks. in reality it will mostly be used by very few and they will largely stay naturally within the limitations you propose. i don't like it, but it won't change things in any real way.existing character services for plex:sure why not. no one has been opposed to this and it would bring more income for ccp, since players are much more willing speanding ig money over rl money. it is just a matter of details/price in plex. portait swapping will propably change to incarna feature/ player provided service.incarna and microtransactions:they will come in some form. pure subscription models are losing in revenue earning power to hybrid models, so ccp will dip it's feet in to this. this will happen in every major title to some extent, so you will have to accept it in some form or stop playing mmos. i would be disapointed beyond belief, if all the fluff in incarna would be for microtransactions. not even f2p microtransaction only games do that ****, so why don't we wait for the actual plan ccp has before jumping to conclusions. usually most of the options are available through the game and just a few, the better/more interesting ones, are saved for microtransactions only. it might even be, that you purchase a permanent licences from ccp that allows you to run a certain type of shop or facility in incarna. the point is it could vary from absolutely gamebreaking to insignificant, so better wait for the details."
"to me the limit makes sense in terms of cost and the prior reasoning behind the limit of one remap per year. basically we only got 1 remap per year because our brains couldn't take the stress and the costs of doing the remaps were prohibitive. now advancements have been made which make the remaps safer, up to a point, but the costs are still there, so we capsuleers will have to pay for it if we want another remap.people who dislike remaps altogether kinda boggle me. literally every game i have ever played has a form of remap for currency.personally i'd rather see something a bit more complex. special coupons and vouchers for _each_ different service. for example, id of liked to see an attributes remap coupon (arc). then each coupon or voucher can be traded on the open market. the market can value each service as it likes rather than ccp being the one that decides the value. i have no issues with microtransactions myself. my pet peeve is trading card games attached to mmos that give items you cant get any other way. even if they are only fluff items. one mans fluff is another mans, oh god i want that."
"supporting and bumping"
"old vid = eve explainatron 5.0new vid = telling more about ingame thingshow about a fusion?"
"fantastic proposal, i hope to see changes to the bookmark system soon. it would make a huge difference in the quality of the wormhole residents/0.0 dwellers life."
"1.0"
"transparent motivations are transparent.just in case people aren't familiar with test's position in eve they happen to inhabit one of the areas where technetium is abundant."
"1) nerf moons2) make it so everything is made out of trit3) ???4) chribba wins eve (again)i approve of this solution"
"i approve of your reading skills."
"with supercaps online on the rise, a new pos mod that acts as a station service structure is needed. anchor inside pos, right click that opens a menu like fitting service and allows station services to be carried out. upgrade clone's, move clone, apply to corps etc etc and all those other silly things you can't do in space. we should not have to petition to have these things done."
"you don't have to petition to get these done, because a petition won't do this.1) clones can be made big enough to last for years way before you board the ship. is spending an extra 10mil on an oversized clone really an issue when boarding a 10bn+ ship?2) you can refit a supercap at any pos ship array or at any friendly capital ship with a ship array. 3) you can't swap corps in space because it would cause all kinds of issues with standings / wardecs / etc. 4) anything else can be accomplished by either using a private alt-corp pos with a password only you know, and/or a csma to hold the ship. being able to afford a 10bn isk ship implies you can afford the 100m for a tower.not supported. the penalty for being in such a strong ship is the need for proper planning and support."
"there are several threads about warp and warp animations already but stillwarp flash ftw!also the thing with changing the speed up warp we have now to a instant 100% warp has my full support warp tunnels also need rework cause it really looks stupid seeing your ship fly through planets and stations"
"i'm all for it. particularly the warp tunnel tweaks to hide the \"oh look, a planet!\" thing."
"being a member of own alliance who recently have had to put up with idiotic flaming from test alliance members, i was wondering if it would be possible to block an entire alliance as i feel nothing worth my time can come from test.just a suggestion!"
"stop lining your pockets then, even hi sec corps have reimbursement programs.not supported."
"people are being mean in my sandbox a bloo bloo bloo"
"i hope you miss all the intel and get blown up by evoke.this feature would be far too overpowered for when our 200 man fleets convospam the one red who didn't get the memo that his station was getting reinforced."
"at least we don't endorse awoxing blues:to stay on topic though, a mass ignore option would actually be kinda nice if possible."
"i did you the favor of informing test of your desire."
"exactly. op, please use what's already offered to you."
"there is... its called being in the same corporation and exercising restraint in not killing your training pilot and vice versa.it's not that hard to figure out...why make this so complicated... ccp has enough crap to fix."
"apologies for the derail rule.like i said before having flown in black ops fleets quite a bit lately the size of the fuel bay is the only issue i think needs attention."
"edited due to inaccuracy"
"which is what i said originally before thread took u-turn into stupid land but its all good....hi-res faces and sansha pve is the priority. yeah...yummy....eat it and smile.oh rockets too. forgot that."
"i posted summaries of day 1 and day 2. day 3 summary coming soon...was a short day for me due to flight schedules so maybe another csm will chime in about it with some brief insights.don't forget we are going to be publishing minutes with more detail as soon as they can be written and edited but wanted to get some information out to the community asap so you had an idea of what went on."
"there are alliances, and there are powerblocks, who are organisations of alliances in flexible but hierarchically structured collaboration. there's many things you can say about them, but one thing is pretty simple.alliances in 0.0 are rich, unless their leaders are rich. go over eve's history, you will find a few examples where there were exceptions (mostly tied to times of great investment or attrition, or times of great stupidity) but overall you'll find it holds true.always ask the question from what point of interests a statement or even an opinion comes. place it also in that context."
"which brings me back to the original question. why is he bringing up highsec income?0.0 income needs nerfing, therefor everything else must be scaled back with it? or is there something else i'm not reading between the lines?"
"ah ok thats what i needed to hear... that is an actual reason... im cool now... :-)"
"still need fixing"
"haters gonna hate!"
"bump"
"got my support. say no to stationshooting online!"
"nice idea malc big thumbs up from me! like the idea of it being tied to incarna and saboteurs too"
"i don't like the idea of destroying a station just by pressing a button, but i do like this idea. i would like it to be more of a death star type thing. you build a death star and its a one shot deal, it travels to its target system slowly and then takes a few days to power up its main gun and then wrecks the station. should be a way to cause some more fights as well.it could even be the basis for a new expansion, an expansion based on a giant death sphere that wrecks stations is about 100x more interesting then some more sansha rats."
"what part of the following did you not understand?:cautious support. if implemented, the rate of destruction and consequences should be analyzed for impact on 0.0 population drop. the destruction requirements should then be rebalanced."
"~530 outposts, ~3000 sov 0.0 systems.outposts cost less than an aeon at market prices these days."
"oh yes! a ship that flies something like a freighter, huge and slow, you fly it to a station, and activate destruct mode, like a 10 minute seige timer or something. replace the 12 hour wait with a slow vulnerable ship that has to be physically moved in to place. nice, that's much better than a boring anchorable module."
"thumbs up.i think the wrecking module should be more expensive, costly enough that people will (mostly) only use it if they have a strategic reason rather than for lulz."
"aeon's \"at market value\" are over double what they cost to build because people are stupid. anyone paying 20b+ for a supercarrier is getting swindled. i also notice you fail to provide a link or source of data for your outposts to system ratio. you simply provide a number that is mysteriously the exact ratio you suggested earlier."
"you mean like how when titans were originally introduced they were designed to be so expensive that they'd be a rare sight and surely no alliance would be able to afford more than 1 or 2 of them?cost based restrictions never work in eve. at all. ever. attemping to introduce one will simply give the rich superpowers another tool which they can wave around when they need to keep smaller alliances in line."
"supporting the principle, as it would introduce a new mineral sink.make it a capital only module (dreadnaught?)."
"that list seems to count conquerable stations which were spawned from day one of eve, not just player-constructed outposts."
"4,256% supportedi want to be mesmerized by visuals when i kill people, or get killedalso i want some kinda death animation when i die, so i can watch myself blowup in some glorious ball of fire, and then see my pod shooting out of the explosion in a random direction."
"if, what you say, is true, i would be very glad. we will see.do you have a weblink to that eurogamer thing ?thx."
"on the fence whether ccp should remove learning skills or not, but i would accept this as an alternative to them if i had to choose.p.s. i do have many many skill points into learning, all basic to 5 and all adv to 4. you won't beleive how long this took to get! it was almost as bad as training for hulk! i feel that i wasted too much time in learning skills, yet i do feel that (hopefully) it will pay off."
"this would help new players out, when people tell them, train learning skills for your first month and a half they usually quit or dont do it lol"
"as a new player who took the time to get almost all the learning skills to 5, i don't think there's anything wrong with them. they don't need to be \"fixed\". that said, if ccp does decide to remove them, this idea is better than the others i've seen."
"i am davelantor and i approve of this message.this is something of a hot patch thing ... can be very easily implemented.but with the new system to have free sp to distribute around etc. .. this can even be more easily implemented.just delete all the learning skills, and give the player the attributes. but also give them the sp spent.that way, everybody is happy !!!"
"no. everyone would not be happy. ccp are aware that removing learning skills would anger alot of people. i did suggest that it would anger the least amount of people if the learning skills were given away."
"back to the top."
"i'm in."
"wtf?man you guys are greedy! take what ccp offers and be happy with it.. don't beg, it's not becoming for anyone.i would be happy with a lump of coal from ccp tbh. oh, wait.. they already gave me that.... the new optional patches! silly me. =p"
"the problem is ccp = logo n@zis.the current restirctions for an alliance logo is1) 3 months since formation2) apropriate3) sized righteven when they follow those rules some people still have a problem getting ccp to approve thier logos, it would be cool (which is why i support it), but not probable. (from later post)i support this addition, it nullifies my problem with the idea."
"my only problem with this is corporations come and go so fast, that i can see cases where the corp that submitted the logo is folded by the time it actually makes it into the game not only being likely, but common.no, sorry, i can't support this, despite \"yeah that'd be cool\" attraction."
"the requirement to ship logos with a patch is a stupid requirement on ccps side. you don't have to wait for a patch until you see new characters portraits, they have a backend that serves them on demand, even on the internet side. while submitted corp logos still need to undergo verification and approval by a ccp employee, technically that should be very doable.supported."
"did you not read what evelgrivion said or did you just drink a gallon of bleach and figure it would be a good time to post something? go back and read his post, and you'd see he's calling for a nerf, not a buff, of the drake."
"a t2 drake can just about hold its own against a t1 meta 4 hurricane. hurricane has less tank more gank, drake has more tank less gank.i think it could use a little buff in damage tbh. but, i'm willing to accept my low dps for my turtletank.not supported. unless you give us damage buffs."
"1. the drake is within a few mil of any t2 bc in terms of hull and full fit cost with insurance.2. missiles are op now? get the **** out.3. see above.4. passive shield tanks (ie. resist amps and 2-3 lse) on drakes = no tackle/no prop mod. if you think that still leaves them dangerous, urbad.5. the drake slaughters speed ships that don't know how to degress and/or pick appropriate targets.6. the drake does have to compromise between tank and tackle, which matters outside of a giant blob. but you're right, no other ship in the game is dangerous in large numbers. in conclusion: htfu."
"i do not support.why blaster ship problems should be fixed through some perverted way. the problem of blaster ships is the weapon. missiles were revised (not rockets), lasers were revised, projectiles were revised - it is time to balance hybrid weapon.last projectile boost was pretty smart and fine-tuned: apocripha tc and te gave falloff boost, dominion gave latent dps boost through ammo."
"just please dont destroy myrmidon :(i dont care about the hyperio but hands off ma myrmidon.give that boost to deimos and brutix, maybe in megathron too. also dominix is fine with the bonus on reps"
"nerf the hell out of t3 cruisers,make t3 frigs, bc's ect.only way it would be possible."
"supporting more t3. doesn't have to be ships."
"like modular... modules?"
"we could have t3 launchers, guns, shield boosters, etc."
"ccp mentioned those on fanfest 2009 already. though nothing specific."
"if the t3 concept is expanded it would be much preferable to see t3 modules with a similar sort of modular/customisation theme to them, although how that would be implemented is another matter."
"i approve and endorse this proposal. further, and i'm all ears if there's a fix to this, why, when using a second monitor, can i only go 'full screen' on whichever monitor is designated as primary? it makes navigating my computer crazy-difficult."
"you are doing it wrong?i run 2 accounts on my 2 monitors, both are fullscreen via evemon. (see the relocator tab next to tools? use it)"
"when i select the journal, i would like to see a tab that check marks missions with all completed objectives (that are ready to be turned in) instead of having to click on \"read more\" and scrolling down."
"sounds reasonable and very handy. supported."
"i like.microtransaction's dont give you an advantage, even plex for remaps though, i like the q_q's of people though.char transfers are good too that makes it easy to trade between 2 of my accounts.no in game item should be only created by rl money, other then the plex, and plex's should always be trabable"
"my dad and i are relatively new at this game, but i'm pretty sure what happened to him should not have. so i thought i would ask about. my dad was finishing up a mission and it required him to go pick up some slaves and then bring them back to the agent, and on his way back minmatar customs stopped him. they asked him to give up the slaves, but thinking that it was his mission to get them to the agent he refused, and well you know the rest. should he have given them up to customs? any help/advice would be muchly appreciated!"
"your dad received a message when he looted the slaves saying that it is an illegal item therefore the minnie customs did their job.keep an eye for items with a skull on their icon and dont loot them.the \"customs\" scan random players on gate ~ chances to get caught are random ~ but either your father looted the wrong item for the mission or it was a really crappy mission p.s. you post it on the wrong place, there is a nice sub-forum called missions and complexes. (here we post suggestions/trolls/issues etc)"
"if it is reallythe the item you have tog et the the mission, i find that very dumb. the mission neds to be moved o amarr or other slae-allowing pace."
"some missions have mission specific items which need to be obtained from a location which should be highlighted in your mission brief. there are other similar items that can be dropped by structures. now in your case i dont know if this is the case but my guess would be that customs scanned your ship and notified you that an item you were carrying was contraband. this more than likely wasnt the item in your mission brief. perhaps a forum mod could move this topic to missions and complexes."
"it would also help if you could give us the name of the mission being run"
"the mission was called a terrible thing and the agent was odingill reiradur in vullat. but anyways he put up a petition and they told him they dont know what happened either. they put the slaves in the station and said they would investigate it. the mission called for him to bring back some breeder slaves, but he also had some regular slaves on him. so im thinking that may have been the issue. sorry this was posted in the wrong forum."
"would be stupid not to"
"the old one gave you a good insight into what the **** happened in eve, thenew one gives you a good guideline. give ald one some eye-candy and plug it back in, or make a hybrid of the twp"
"i'd really like to see a small addition to the hud in the same area as ship speed or the various health meeters for cargo capacity. it's frustrating to keep the cargo window open just so i can see my current fill limit.i realize this issue is compounded by certain advanced ships with specialized cargo areas, like the rorqual or orca."
"since you hae to have the cargo window open to drag stuff into it, which is really the only time this matters, can you perhaps expand on why we need this changed aside from \"it annoys me\"."
"good idea."
"i am davelantor and i approve this message.awesome idea :d"
"yes, but the point of iseen is valid and should be taken into account"
"supported for sure, the bookmarks are a nightmare at current."
"so do i."
"smells like an anti-nc whine, sounds like an anti-nc whine, looks like an anti-nc whine.it must be a duck.... wait...if you are going to mess with moons make them depletable! otherwise, deal with it like the rest of us!"
"the only reason 0.0 wars isnt 1000 sc's vs 1000 sc's is that they cant dock."
"fyp"
"corp cynos are a popular thing, and very useful when employed as a method to give greater mobility to corps. they are also against the eula. this csm issue is to figure out some way to make accounts that can be accepted as legitimate corp cyno accounts, and make the gms happy, but also let the players do what they were doing anyways, except above the table now.requirements: - the account has to be only paid for with a plex, with no tie to personal information. -only directors/ceo have access to the accounts. -only directors and ceo can create the accounts.-account info can not be changed through account management page. (or if it is, only the original details are referenced)-also any hacked account petitions are totally ignored by default. - the gms can sort out the rest."
"sounds great!would be nice for titans as well because i know people share titan char's all the time...also, instead of only director's and ceo's being able to use the accounts, make a new role that allows the account to be used by only people who have the required role."
"so if the account actually gets hacked you should just say bye bye to the char and the game time still left on the account?not supporting because we don't need more disposable chars. once you do have such accounts shared by many, hard accountability is gone, opening a can of worms.ps.: posting in a pl confession thread."
"alternately, make friends with people who have cyno alts. ensure your blackops fleet leaders know which alliance members can light covert cyno. keep out-of-band contact details (eg: msn, mobile phone, email address) so you can contact (covert) cyno folks to help out in times of urgency.it's an mmo game, try to make friends before you try to make friends.ps: the way to address a shortage of supercapital ships compared to the number of pilots you have who can fly them is to look for ways to securely store your supercaps, not share supercap pilot accounts."
"sounds like an extremely good proposal to me.. it would be interesting if maybe not as an account but you train a skill that allows you to jump into a \"corp asset clone\" that is able to do this very task.. would save alot of administration at ccp's end, it could be a single use item for xyz isk or mulitple use.? perhaps a microtransaction if that all goes ahead.supported"
"as much as i hate it this post is exactly the problem... accountability for actions."
"account sharing is against the eula and the tos for a reason - it gives ccp someone concrete to point the finger at if something actually illegal (as in rl illegal) should crop up.no. not supported, and if you think ccp is going to give up their legal get out of jail free card, you're insane."
"i would like to see an additional time display above the current gmt time display on the bottom left hand cornerit would display local time (and be labled as such). if possible i would also like to add an alarm clock feature or timer feature to this (so i know when i have to actually stop playing). thank you for reading this dev team."
"me like. support request approved."
"i think maybe the reason it isnt getting the attention is because they are still perfectly useable ships with things the way they are, yes having to have a hauler for fuel is annoying and ideally wouldnt be necessary but can be worked around fairly easily (in our black ops fleets we usually have one of the scouts dual box the hauler)"
"is there any other ship in game where this is a requirement?no.carriers/dreads/moms/titans/jf's....sorry...don't see them requiring a fuel hauler.such a simple fix to make. the bobs do not need buffing or improving beyond this to make them properly balanced and in line with other non-gate users."
"black ops ships are not the same as other jump capable ships, but if you wish to use that line of arguement.can any other ship in the game bridge ships/jump into a cynojammed system?no.can any other ship in game with a jump bridge also use gates to get into a staging systemno.as things stand you have enough range and fuel capacity to bridge a significant number of ships into a system and the ability to use gates to get into a staging system. if you need to bridge more ships you either use a fuel barge, or you use a second black ops. i agree it would be nice to be able to carry more fuel, but since the original complaint the fuel capacity was greatly improved and i see people using them every day."
"bleah for spinning poorly. seriously dude. oh yes i forget that bobs can use conventional gates. what an exciting and innovative feature that is.your spin and misdirection is disappointing. i expected better...silly me."
"he explained, pretty clearly, why black ops are a unique type of ship and why their current profile still allows them to be useful"
"yes i'm pretty sure everyone knows that, what's your point?"
"you seem to misinterpret, the scanners signiture strength now comes into effect.the amount of programing would be fair, but not massive, since the scanny's sensor strength is already taken into account to set up the signal strengths when you scan, put in a gate that says any cloaked ships below your ships sensor strength show up too, you wouldn't be able to tell a cloaked signature from a regular one either.as for the rest of the comments thank you for your input, i like the one where you are removed from local but i would only have that for covops cloaks.let the flaming trolls continue,ari kelor"
"i really enjoy reading these reports after each summit!it gives a much more positive picture of what is actually going on behind the scenes at ccp.can't wait for the day 3 reports!"
"what's confusing you? 0.0 alliances are not all fabulously wealthy (indeed many simply cannot afford the bills to claim many systems at all, and struggle to pay for what they do hold). more to the point, the costs of paying for sov, an extensive pos network, stations, etc... is very, very expensive. to say nothing of the capital and supercapital fleets that need to be churned out to hold, let alone take, ground. added to that is the fact that much of the isk in the major alliances is concentrated in those sub-groups that bring in heavy income (xt corp in rzr, for instance, is richer than many alliances in the game, due to their industrialism). most individual pilots in 0.0, however, are not overly wealthy. losing a battleship, hac and a recon (or whatever) may be cause for days of ratting/plexing/anomalies just to get back to even. contrast that with the incredibly low-risk ability to grind massive amounts of isk, faction standing and loyalty points in highsec. l4's will never be nerfed, just not going to happen. so instead finding ways to make entering into 0.0 easier is one proposed solution. finding a sov system that does what dominion was supposed to do rather than sov structures that you need a massive fleet to down? well, that'd be a start. but vuk is essentially correct. also he should give me isk."
"fair points, but the confusion is where the exchange is between 0.0 and empire mission runners. i don't consider the bears in empire to be the cause of much of anything (aside from cheap faction gear i buy from them) out in the void. frankly, i find anomalies out-pace what the most impressive empire bears can boast and i don't even use a carrier for them.also, you're quick to point out the amount of isk going into sov upkeep, pos(s), and supercaps, and yet fabulous numbers of all these things are going up around the universe still. even realtive unknown corps are now the prowd owners of a few super-carriers. from the sound of his post, it seemed as though the correlation was isk faucets in highsec are, essentially, the funding for super-growth in nullsec. i just don't see the link though. the isk flow seems to be inward to empire and not the other way around. therefor my theory has been that nullsec is much more lucrative than ever before."
"you cant lower anyones income and expect them to welcome it. boosting income is the what catches players attention. if you want to get someone to go somewhere make it worth their while."
"page 6 is unacceptable."
"i would say i have to agree. what the gankers are doing is a crime and should not be supported by insurance. i also feel it is wrong for them to ruin the game for those that enjoy high sec missioning. they should not be able to destroy something someone spent months earning. i have no issue if it was a consensual fight but they shouldnt be able to destroy your hard work in high sec space if you didnt want to enter a fight."
"no"
"no"
"the point in flying a ship in this fashion is that it improves the ability to make kills vs people that don't want to fight you or people that have a fair chance of gtfo, so it requires a ship that gets the kills done while relaying on as less mistakes of the other pilot as possible.also it did highly improve the ability shut down sub bs tacklers quick and makes you easy to catch but hard to hold(at least pre qr it did).in my general experience a heavy tank is not this important for a predator. i use even less ehp in my current bs fits. with multiple fights ending in structure i still not feel the need for a better tanking ability since it would be a wast of slots most of the time."
"supported, but only if the strippers are missing teeth, sport blindingly low iqs, and have stretch marks. (realism, right?)"
"i propose that electronic attack ships are reviewed and (hopefully) rebalanced to make them a more viable choice. in their current state, they don't perform really well, and it may not be a surprise to know that according to the 2010 q1 economic report, there are currently more super carriers actively being flown than there are electronic attack ships, i think this speaks volumes about the their current iteration.tl;dr \"why do electronic attack ships suck?\" in a nutshell: huge signature radius combined with worse than stealth bomber ehp and almost as bad agility, several of the bonuses feel weak and out of place, and in the keres' case, it's role overlaps pretty heavily with interceptors.i will list here what i think needs to be reviewed/changed, as well as my own personal experience with each ship and the problems with each one. \"ability to 'evade' damage versus effective hit points\".i think this is the first, and most important thing that needs to be reviewed, currently electronic attack ships have the biggest signature radius' for all frigates, around about 40%~ more signature than the average frigate for this class. they also have fairly bad agility, and engagement ranges which put them in the line of fire for close range medium weapons, unlike interceptors, they also get tracked while mwding in their engagement ranges. fitting a plate or shield extender to these ships, which many consider mandatory further emphasises this problem. personally, i feel like their signature radius should be tuned down to around about the racial stealth bomber values. the agility on them could also do with tweaking a bit.keresok, this one is probably in the worst shape out of all the eas. it has 2 cap bonuses, and yet still can't run a mwd and tech ii disruptor at the same time, let alone if you want to run dampeners on it. it's main problem though, is that is overlaps incredibly severely with the tackler interceptors (30km versus 36km points), combine that with many of the interceptors strengths such as being much more cap stable, higher ehp, faster, more agile, signature radius while mwding is only slightly bigger than the keres base signature radius. really, there is almost no reason to ever fly a keres when you can fly the ares. i propose increasing the base capacitor stats, while replacing the cap related bonuses with more useful bonuses related to the keres' survivability. it needs to somehow stand out and be a viable alternative to the tackle interceptors. personally, i feel making the keres a bit more combat orientated will do this, such as giving it increased drone bandwidth and drone bay, and swapping out the cap bonuses for turret damage related bonuses.hyenai don't think this one is that bad, although i must say that 20km engagement range at eas5 is a little short for my liking. it also has some fairly bad bonuses, 3% to signature radius reduction per level being probably the worst bonus on any frigate. i'd recommend buffing the stasis webifier range bonus from 20% to 30%, that'll give it 25km at eas5, which seems a lot more reasonable to me. i'll also suggest the same as what i suggested with the keres, and make it hit a little harder, a small drone bay (10m3?) and some turret bonuses would help it out quite a bit i think. increase the base capacitor stats a little to account for the mwd cap bonus being replaced.kitsuneno real individual complaints here, over than what has been said that applies to all eas. my only pet peeve with this ship is that it gets a optimal range bonus to ecm while having a horrible lock range, i'd recommend buffing the base capicitor by 25%, and replacing the 5% to cap amount with 7.5% to lock range per level."
"sentinelis currently the best, and probably the only eaf which is currently 'flyable'. i wouldn't recommend tweaking it too much, but it could do with getting the cap recharge bonus built in and given a drone hitpoint bonus or something similar.i'm not a game designer, the changes and values i've suggested are mostly placeholders for the proposal, just to give it a little more direction and so it doesn't get rejected for not having a clear proposal so please don't berate this proposal if you don't agree with me on a changes/numbers level.another suggestion which props up quite a bit is allowing them to use the blackops jump bridge, which i think is a good idea and meshes well with their theme of being 'decentralised electronic warfare'. tl;dr+ buff agility and signature radius+ rework weak ship bonuses+ maybe allow them to use black ops jump bridges"
"yea it does, but there are only like 50 something conquerable stations, for example 8 of it's 67 are conquerable stations.not that it matters, they can abide by the same rules as outposts imo."
"why should these be treated differently?"
"supported, though i have a few gripes with the proposal. 1) if the station wrecks are permanent fixtures, wouldn't we just end up cluttering space with station wrecks instead? surely a rebuilding mechanism is sensible. 2) i am not sure i understand the mechanic you propose for accessing items in a wrecked station. is the idea that anyone now has access to everything, in terms for ships and/or items, in that station? if that is the case, the load this would place on the server is completely unjustifiable."
"they probably shouldn't, but you included their numbers in your op when talking about the amount of outpost systems and rate at which new outposts were being built, which distorts the actual figures somewhat."
"at the current rate of outpost creation, a few dozen conquerables are barely a couple of month's worth of building - 30 outposts have been built in the last 35 days, and as it is, player built outposts outnumber them 10:1.when new outposts are being created at the rate of almost 1 per day, then we have to consider that they're no longer special enough to be immune from destruction."
"balancing game mechanics purely by cost is seldom a good idea. i'd suggest making it of negligible cost, but tricky to deploy (freighter required).i think a 24-hr timer would be necessary, as any significant changes to outposts would probably need to be done over downtime, as with outpost deployment.how would this work if all the offices were occupied and removing the upgrades reduced the number of offices?presumably r&d jobs in progress at the outpost would be cancelled. what about jobs taking place at starbases elsewhere in the system with the bpo in the outpost?also, re medical clones: the default location should transfer back to corp hq (which is always a station in empire).i think making the transition outpost -> non-outpost with the remaining conditions you suggest would be quite a lot of work to implement. i think there are 2 other options which would work better:1. leave an intact outpost in a permanently crippled state, with all services disabled, all corp assets irrevocably impounded and all docking rights revoked. the owner of the outpost should have the option to rebuild it by deploying a similar device in a similar way, costing maybe half what an outpost costs to build.2. remove the outpost entirely, along with everything (items, clones and all) inside it at the time of destruction. i think this is the better option"
"holy f*** someone else in this world that knows how to make a motion based on roberts rules of order. marry me!!!! other than that, supported...but i seriously hope ccp gives it a much cooler name.edit: stupid support button..."
"great idea"
"this is very similar to the pillage idea i've heard about outposts. i agree with the general concept, except that i disagree with destroying medical clones. i think that can create a lot of problems for people. i also think it's not necessary if you keep jump clones alive anyway, why not med clones too? considering people wont be able to resupply (fit ships, bring in new stuff, etc), people wont want to keep their med clone in a destroyed station anyway. i'm also not sure about treating it as a big corp hangar array, as it would suddenly leave a lot of people's personal items vulnerable for theft (who has access to the container contents, etc).i have one suggestion: allow people to rebuild the outpost in the same way you build one in the first place. the outpost is wrecked but you can put raw materials into it (like you put in an outpost egg). once you've filled it up, the outpost can be repaired/rebuilt and once again open for business. this should be a significant cost, of course - but not quite as much as a new outpost. allowing this mechanic also justifies keeping people's stuff \"trapped\" in a destroyed outpost. want your crap back? rebuild the outpost! this should require sov in the system, obviously."
"thanks for the pics, i've never seen the originals, but they are beautifull, i want those back.it's not fair that my dramiel's current engine trail is only slightly longer than the ship, i want one that's at least 3 times as long, and 5 times when i hit my afterburner or mwd and go zooooooom!"
"eurogamer: the same reader asked when engine trails are coming back - \"please!\"?torfi frans olafsson: hopefully next release. we are talking to the graphics programmers about it. but first we will be introducing turret graphics on all the ships.sorry to dash your hopes, but these new turret effects are not even on sisi yet, and incursion testing is well underway."
"good solution that gives new players more time to try out other things like ship races/industry over boring training time."
"i propose that the ability to neut a triaged/sieged ship be removed. the reason is pretty straight forward. neuts are a form of ew. you cannot remote sensor boost a sieged ship but on the flip side you can't sensor damp one either. the same applies for td's vs remote te's, ecm vs remote eccm, and so on. the one exception to this is cap transfer vs neuting. you can neut them but you can't cap transfer. i believe cap transferring while sieged would be overpowered so i'm proposing the ability to neut be removed instead."
"and how will you beat triaged/sieged caps without cap warfare? pure dps?"
"yes. while in siege/triage, you can't be rr'd. so you're left with only what you can self tank. in even the smallest capital fights, coming up with 10-15k dps to break even the toughest triaged carriers isn't an issue. the fair alternative as i previously stated is allowing cap transfers while sieged/triaged but that would add more capability to them than what i proposed."
"no, capacitor warfare is not the same, at all, as electronic warfare. not supported."
"drake is fine. it's solid in pve and pvp, not overpowered though, it has it's weaknesses."
"edited for mistakeshe is right, between tank and dps.... but as a solo persondps + tank with no gank = badtank + gank with no dps = baddps + gank with no tank = maybe, but still not goodso guess what..... you are gonna be in fleet or you will sack something.in other words... its fine."
"wat"
"eve online is a cocktail of various ships, piloting specializations, and choices. bonuses, optimizations, bonuses, and synergy of modules allow ships to perform specific roles to varying degrees of success. do you fit for serious repair ability, a large buffer, or speed? damage output or defense? good tracking or high alpha? compared to other vessels, the hurricane is a ship of many merits which paint it as one exceptional to others. lets think about the hurricane's various advantages for a few moments. * the hurricane is inexpensive and has relatively low skill requirements * the hurricane uses autocannons, which gives it enormous flexibility in engagement range, good tracking and damage type selection as well as being able to comfortably fit the highest caliber guns * if the target has low transversal, the autocannons will always hit for respectable dps * the ability to match the mobility of a cruiser gives it the ability to disengage from a fight easily * the hurricane slaughters all sorts * the hurricane does not have to compromise between utility and dpsthe hurricane's assets are the embodiment of risk aversion. it does not compromise and it does not suffer weakness. the reasonable hitpoint buffer and excellent mobility, firepower and neuts allow it to disengage at will. the hurricane's only time of weakness is when the numbers reach the critical mass to prioritize alpha strike or when powerful neuting is brought to bear - presuming a curse or battleship is available. worse still, the hurricane is a ship that almost anyone can fly very quickly. i can think of no vessel that embodies what's wrong with eve more than this one.so how do we fix the hurricane? the answer lies not in hurting the hurricane's ability to put out raw damage, but in breaking the hurricane's ability to equip every mod it needs without compromising on firepower or mobility.i propose reducing the hurricane's cpu output by 50 points, and the grid by 150 points. this will bring the hurricane in line with the rest of the ships in this game by forcing pilots to make a choice: do you want to optimize for utility, or do you want to optimize for dps? you should not have the cpu and or grid to fit a full rack of 425mm autocannons with a large shield buffer and 2x medium neuts or medium neut and warfare link.see what i did there?"
"you're right. nerf the drake, buff the hurricane."
"fine... then its a nerf.how about less bull#### and more direct?eitehr way... the drakes fine. (just look at what everyone else is saying about it)you also should keep in mind the cladari don't really have much to say when it comes to pvp ships as it is.i'm content to let them have their drakes. : o pthe op is still a noob imho for even bothering to ask for a nerf/buff or whatever the hell hes asking for."
"okay, not to be a jackass, but there are 3 things wrong with this statement. (1st)the deimos already has this \"boost\" but is still mostly a fail ship. (2nd)the megathron has no boost to armor repping, (3rd)nor does the domi. but while we're on the subject, an armor repping bonus on the domi would make quite a few people happy ;)as for the op, the deimos already has this \"boost\" but it's still a laughing stock of killboards, so i'd have to say it's more of a gun problem--not supported =/"
"drugs are good, m'kay; a booster revamp proposalcurrent situationcombat boosters exist in eve. however, their usage is limited. and with a very low usage also comes very low market activity and limited production activity. k-space gas cloud products (raw materials for boosters) are nearly worthless and all products involved with booster production have a very low trade volume. this is aggravated by the fact that many alliances do their booster production in-house.a big reason they are not used much is because of their side effects (ignoring synth boosters that give only a small benefit and are ignored by a lot of people because of it). for most players, the chance of having your play time messed up by unfortunate side effects outweighs the benefit of greatly increasing one stat. this means combat booster usage is mostly restricted to specialised pilots in specific situations. i am quite fond of boosters and the edgy, dystopian image they represent. i think they fit eve perfectly, and would like to see them used more. this proposal suggests a solution that aims to increase booster usage, and with it booster production. solutionthe solution is split into a core component as well as several optional suggestions. while i think they all complement eachother, the optional suggestions are not strictly necessary for the idea to work.revamped booster mechanics (core)the core of this solution is a change to the way booster penalties are applied. currently, there's a chance for any of four penalties to be applied for the duration of your booster. this means that if you're very unlucky, the penalties undo the beneficial effect of the booster.instead, i propose to delay the penalties until after the booster (and it's beneficial effect) wears off - similar to the 'come down' experienced after using real life drugs. the benefit is that someone can be certain of beneficial effects when they take their booster. they also know that when the booster wears off, they will suffer the penalties. but you can plan for that. maybe you log off, maybe your op only lasts an hour anyway. or maybe you take another booster! when you take a booster, any negative effects from previous boosters are removed. however, once this second booster wears off, the negative effects will return... worse! with a longer duration and possibly also higher intensity. it is like going on a really long coke/xtc binge, the eventual crash will be much worse than if you only take one line of coke/pill.this mechanic will encourage the casual use of boosters, as you are guaranteed a strong positive effect for the duration of the booster without any penalties... until the booster wears off. this mechanic will also mean some pilots may develop actual addictions, where the total penalties of their repeated booster use have become so great they have to keep taking boosters or accept a very long detox time. this also allows for the development of a special detox booster that does not offer any stat boost but only decreases the intensity or duration of the negative effects (like methadon for a her0in addict)."
"low sec is booster central (optional)as 'the slums of empire space', i think low sec is has the perfect profile to match drug manufacturing. this can be encouraged by seeding certain booster raw materials only in low sec. this would most likely require some more components to be needed for booster production. additionally, booster bpcs should become more available through low sec exploration sites, to allow for more trade and to handle the increased demand. again, low sec is a great place for that.additionally, allow booster production in 0.4 space. the current restriction on 0.3 or lower seems to have no good justification as 0.4 space is not any less dangerous than 0.3.more boosters (optional)to further promote the use of boosters, more boosters could be made available. as mentioned above, a detox booster could be made. there could be ewar related boosters, energy warfare and tackling related boosters. there could be boosters to increase cyno jump range, mining yield and invention success rate. you could also add a tier of boosters between synth and standard. still illegal but not as expensive (and not quite as strong) as standard boosters. all of this would be player produced and player marketed. the possibilities are endless!pro's and conspro* more booster trading means drug manufacturing/smuggling can be a real profession* more variation in ship abilities through booster-improved setupscon* boosters may become 'standard' for pvp, similar to rigs. players may need to be drugged up to compete"
"i like boosters and i really think they should have a wider market than they do today. i support you :)"
"don't forget to support yourself!i like the idea although i think it would be good to have some antilogofski mechanic. maybe logging should only remove part of the comedown so that you will always have a hangover the next time you log on. this will be countered by docking up and cloaks but at least it will give people a reason to stay logged on and not take the too-easy way out."
"this was an idea that you described in the low sec focus group i conducted during my csm campaign. it was well received by the group then, and sounds even better with this excellent description. i for one think that the low sec option could be a pivotal element in an overall revamp or makeover of low sec, providing a very good incentive to making low sec matter.very much supported; when this gets raised in csm, it will have my enthusiastic vote of support."
"supported"
"never used boosters myself, but this sounds like a good change.supported."
"oh my gosh. i think you found the holy hand-grenade of antioch. if what you proposed were in place i would actually use them.sweet!!"
"nice idea, supported."
"drugs! jajaja <3"
"if all the cool kids are doing it."
"not supported.having used boosters plenty of times, i find the mechanics to be rather well balanced as is. if side effects were delayed it would be way too overpowered. you pop your booster, win/survive your fight, and then dock up when the side effects kick in. side effects would never have an impact. boosters then become an \"i win\" button for those that can afford them. with production limited to low/null, and the dramatically overpowered benefit they would give (one could even say mandatory to stay competitive in pvp), it would be a seller's market and price would remain high or even increase. sorry, but your proposal displays a rather naive interpretation of gamer mentality, and a serious lack of game balance.by the way, there are skills which reduce both the chance and amount of side effect. once trained you will very rarely get all 4 side effects, and occasionally i have had no side effects at all. randomness is good.however, i do agree that making ladar sites more available in lowsec would be a plus. but only a minor one. widespread gas harvesting in lowsec is about as likely as mining in lowsec. not gonna happen. harvesting will stay in null where space is somewhat more controllable and far safer than lowsec. as a result, boosters will continue to be primarily done for in-house nullsec use, and will stay low volume on the open market. doesn't matter where you seed the bpcs, the ability to safely obtain the base material is the clincher. it's exactly like mining. imagine if you could only pull veld from low or null...i like the idea of making boosters more commonly used, but your idea needs more work."
"i know there's skills. i have neurotoxin recovery iv and nanite control iv. the goal of this proposal is to take combat boosters out of obscurity and into mainstream. and that means making them or their use more popular. which means more people will produce them and more people will look for it's resources. low sec gas cloud mining never has to be huge (you dont need that much gas cloud materials for a batch of boosters), but as it is k-space gas clouds are completely worthless.as for not suffering any side effects in this system - a side effect could be slower learning, or it could last a lot longer. i didnt mention specific details like that because balancing that is the job of ccps game designers. if you feel combat boosters should remain a rarity in eve, then fine, but i think it would be a lot more interesting if many more players used them. similarly to what happened with rigs."
"great idea. drug addicted pilots ingame played by eve addicted players. i love it."
"as much as i very like the basis of diedra's idea, these issues are going to have to be addressed or it would create the exact opposite spectrum issue."
"indeed. that is exactly what i believe. i think i stated that pretty clearly in the last sentence of my previous post. (/sarcasm) the current side effects are not the issue with boosters. the issue is the cost. most people find it hard to justify 10+mil for a one-shot strong booster that will only last half an hour. and the cost comes from the availability of the base materials (and the skills to some degree). you make an excellent comparison with rigs. people didn't use rigs because it was hard to justify spending 10mil on a rig for a frigate. price dropped, and now people rig frigs.make the gas more available and price will drop. and the only way you are going to be able to do that is to put gas pockets in hi-sec (not talking about the synth crap). downside is that it could possibly destroy the nullsec booster industry."
"proposal passed 7.5-0, with some items deleted (of which some may be re-raised as specific proposals). see link below for details.a formal proposal has been posted on the wiki: possibly practical pos performance proposal (csm)this is the prioritization thread for the possibly practical pos performance progress proposal.listed below are a number of small suggested tweaks to pos mechanics, intended to \"reduce the pain\".the next step is to prioritize them so ccp and csm know which tweaks are most important to the players.select the items you think are most important, and reply to this thread with a single line indicating your choices in the following format:<player name>,<choice1>,<choice2>,<choice3>,<choice4>,<choice5> ...for example:trebor daehdoow,5,7,13,1,4,10order is not important. if you vote for more than 5 items, the weight of your votes will be reduced proportionately. if you vote for less than 5, you will be wasting some voting \"juice\". duplicate/repeated votes will not be counted.voting will end at downtime on friday, october 22nd. thank you in advance for your thoughtful participation.relax range restrictions inside pos shields; if you're in the pos, you can interact with all the pos modules, move stuff between them, etc. if possible, this would include onlining and offlining.pos fuel warning evemails should tell you how many hours of each fuel component you are running out of.fuel pellets -- perhaps as a new output of pi (but requiring some components that cannot be produced on planets).remote refuel - grabs stuff from corp hangars; limit to regional range (or system in wh-space).all pos modules should be nameable (or at least a damn code number on them so we can tell corp hangars apart).manufacturing modules should be able to accept inputs from, and deliver outputs to other modules. even something as simple as \"if there are insufficient materials in my hangar, grab them from this module\" would permit simpler pipelines and easier remote management. or more simply, some sort of remote-move-between-modules interface.anchoring/unanchoring queue.fix ship hangar bug that sometimes leaves original ship in space.view blueprints that are in structures in space via corp assets and science & industry interfaces.review and revamp pos permissions, please.jump bridge tolls.reduced time for anchoring, onlining and offlining.update reaction linking interface to be more pi-like.repackaging in corp and ship hangars.personal divisions in corp and ship hangars; corp divisions in ship hangars.access controls at tower-granularity.access and use controls based on standings.improved anchoring ui.courier contracts to and from pos locations.menu and ui improvements to make dangerous actions harder to do by accident (aka, \"ooops, i offlined it again...\")improved reactions ui; show timers, what silo stores, etc.show pos cycle timer.list of ammo in all guns.make refining arrays and t2 ship arrays useful.don't show items in fuel screen that the pos doesn't use.allow csmas to be anchored without sov (or at least in wh space). note that csma != csaa!cache passwords on client.allow multiple players to anchor and online at a pos at the same time (aka \"wham! bam! thank-you, gang!\")indicate on production screen that everything is properly linked or indicate when reactor is not linked.corp hangar access for alliance members."
"sepi - 1/6/7/10/28"
"greg huff, 7, 12, 14, 28, 29"
"veldar reku, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 11, 14"
"dierdra vaal,10,1,7,16,6"
"darius mclever,6,2,11,1,10,6,6,6"
"repeated votes for the same item will not be counted, guys. nice try but that got figured out last time we did this. so all those 6,6,6 votes won't count extra (pity because if they did, i'd do the same thing)"
"brengholl,15,10,1,4,28"
"bunyip,24,14,6,15,8"
"doggy-7,12,1,23,15"
"brock nelson,2,7,10,16,21not in any particular order"
"count sporkula,1,5,30,28,10"
"induc, 7, 14, 15, 23, 10"
"evisraptor, 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30"
"kazuo ishiguro 5, 7, 10, 15, 20"
"it could still be useful if you wanted to give some items less than 1 vote each and others slightly more (but not more than 1 full vote), e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 9. in this scenario 9 would get 1 vote and 1-8 would get half a vote each."
"darveses, 1, 6, 8, 24, 7"
"kai lomu: 10, 4, 22, 12, 3"
"brother philbert,2,24,30,1,5"
"agent known,2,3,6,10,4"
"also, if you check sisi, ccp is already implementing full screen without evemon in incursion."
"in example, u have 2 chars on 1 account, u pay 2 plexes in 1 month and u can both train them."
"i think that it would be a very good thing to change the bonuses on fleet command ships and t3 to affect all link types that would make it possible to mix all the different types of links with each other which would boost the abilities of those ships greatly it also would get the the eos out if its information warfare link hole that could never be filled by bufing them anyway.crazy ~o~"
"i would like to suggest that for every successful series of invention runs on a particular bpo, the player should get a small, incremental improvement of odds for the next run. this can be capped at a certain point so there is always chance of invention failure. for example, every 10 successful invention runs could improve the chance of inventing on the original bpo by say 1% on the 11th run+. the next 10 by another 1% to a maximum bonus of 5% after 50 runs (figures chosen purely to illustrate).i think the logic that the character never remembers or benefits from a succesful run is flawed, particularly if the character is inventing repeat items of the same t2 type.apologies if this has been raised before."
"so after a while you would have 100% chance? so the market gets flooded even more?not really supported."
"i'm not suggesting a 100% invention success rate. rather an improved chance of future success for those regular, multiple t2 invention runs such as ammo, drones etc gained through successful experience. as stated i think the logic of never learning from invention trial and error is flawed."
"hmmm...invention ... bpo ... invention ... bpo ...something does not quiet fit here ... if i only knew what it is ...oh yeah: its just a dumb idea"
"not dumb. supported on basis not extended to things larger than drones or ammo"
"let the ballot stuffing begini have just posted the possibly practical pos performance progress prioritization poll thread. go there to help prioritize the various ideas that have been proposed.thanks for your input into the proposal, and thanks in advance for your thoughtful voting."
"any further comments? a.k.a bump."
"i like it. it gets annoying when i am creating bm's for various reasons and have to open up p&p just to delete a bm or three dozen i won't use again. cause they were a 1 time only bmi want"
"we need a new type of agent that operates in all secthat trains piolts to play together as a team,lvl 1 fleet agent could only be accessed buy a fleet commander of 2 or more members lvl 2 agent 4 or more ect u get the idiea,thease missions should be harder than the hardest lvl 4 mission to the point that if u dont work as a team u cannot complete missions.thease missions should have good loot with a catch you can only loot if your whole team is preasant if 1 teammember warps out the wreaks dissapear.and astoroids or what ever.this could help corps move from hi sec to low sec and from low sec to 00 space!thease missions shoud use ai rats that can swithch targets at random.this gives they team challenges to survive u could in clude that all team mission space is in mission low sec meaning no concord to bail them out this would be a good stepping stone for corps to spread out into the unknown.i beleave this is a missing componet in eve and slows the spread of corperations!this will greatly incress the challenge of the game and bring together corps.the lvl 4-5 fleet agents should be insaine combat challenging the corp fleet to the limits of there abilitys battling rat dreads and carriers and even titans in the hardest of the hard missions.giving even new corp mates views of the chalenges of deep space.thease missions should drop ships and varrious hi-sought after items, fleets who enter missions should expect heavy ship losses if they fail to team properly and comander will gain comand experance under heavy fire.at the end of the missions there should be a fleet post who killed what and how effective they were including the commander.on fleet missions pirates beware attacking fleet corps 2 things happen at once 1 a spiecal spawn occours that aggros the invadersat once.2 pirate captains can only warp in the same ammount of ships that are in the fleets mission.meaning if ten pilots are in mission only ten of your fleet will warp in and u will have no knollage of the total ships in mission. or what types pirates commanders must take a leep of faith!3 at this point pirate commanders will have ten seconds to fleet with mission players or fight it out. once fleeted with mission payers concord will appear u can not un fleet till the end of mission.shooting at fleeted corp will cause your ditruction.mission commanders must assess to eighter kill the invaders or join forces.the invader spawn should be awsome!4 all commanders must bring support ships that carry ammo for the fleet, including caps ect. and thease ships must be protected.if a player leaves mission! he can not return without spawning additional rats and all wreaks and loot dissapear with his exit."
"edited for clairitywe need a new type of agent that operates in all secthat trains piolts to play together as a team,you mean like faction warfare? it kinda does that... or atleast that was my impression of it.if you did then then fleets of alts would be the only ones doing it cause it would be too much of a pain. and what if people dropped out of fleet... then what? what would happen if you \"abandon\" the wreaks... i am afraid this leaves too many holesthis i doubt. it is not just about teamwork but about numbers and timing. having enough people on at the same or sometimes all times of the day.you just described sleepers and wh space. why not try bringing your group there? good rewards and a chance to work on teamwork.the high end loot is for null / low sec. if we start adding it to mission rewards everywhere it devalues lawless space. bad idea. and also of note; pve is not gonna really help you with pvp. the two critters are very very different.you do have a point though. it is difficult to teach people to work as a team, but i think this is best done by players and not implemented by the devs. in a universe / war ground like ours that keeps changing every moment of the day it is best that players teach players. there are several institutions (corporations and alliances) that are designed to do this and faction war is already part of the game to give you opportunities to try as well.i can appreciate your frustration (as it is similar to my frustration as well), but i don't think this is the right avenue for fixing it."
"yes, the bomb needs visual love. even if ccp would just paste the shock wave ring from a pos explosion onto the bomb effect after being re-sized to fit.i would prefer two shock rings at 90 degrees to each other, both of which reach 15km from center before fading.-"
"supported"
"even better -> have the ship issue a recall drones order (on disconnect) before initiating emergency warp.. whether the drones make it into the drone bay or not, before the ship enters emergency warp, its up to player drone navigation skills, drone type (small drones travel faster), navigaton skills, shiptype and momentum and of course range of drones from the ship when receiving the return to dronebay order... should be simple to implement..."
"the journal used to do this. such missions would be listed as \"completed\" instead of \"accepted\" or \"offered\".i don't know why it changed."
"yeah i would like that."
"limits make sense in terms of backstory, but not like what ccp is going to do. it doesn't make sense, since you can't buy your way out of the limitation with isk, the in game currency. it won't make sense since the only item you can use for the service is created outside the game for rl cash. the service provider won't do it for a titan worth tens of billions, but will do it for non-sensical metagame item, that has only a fraction of the value of a titan. it just doesn't make any sense.attribute remaps i can see happening, and unsurprisingly it did, but not skill remaps. eve isn't like every other game and the players chose this game for presicely that reason. it was one of the only games that had meaningful choices, hard to reach long term goals and didn't cater to the \"i want it all now\" -crowd. trying to turn it in to the opposite of what it started of as will cause serious issues with the existing playerbase for benefits that might never materialize for ccp. basicly they kill off the longetivity of the game in exchange for being able to get more revenue per player and attracting a totally different kind of audience. from a player perspective it can kill the game, since it turns it in to something many of them intentionally avoided in the first place. you are making it more complicated than it needs to be. if a plex is too big of a tool to cover all services, ccp will just create smaller tokens and price every service according to these tokens. example 1 plex = 5 tokens, 5 can be exchanged to=30d gametime, 1 buys new super awesome clothing set in incarna, 2 buys an apearance change and so on.you point about the market doesn't make much sense, since we have that already. the issue never was ccp deciding the isk value of the tokens, since it is assumed they allow the tokens to be traded in-game. it increases the demand of the tokens, bringing more money to ccp and silences some of the people complaining, since you can now grind in-game for the same benefit. as an additional benefit, if ccp limits the services to non-gameplay influencing items, it won't alter the basic design of eve, where you have to think and work to succeed and achieve things in-game instead of buying them. that would devalue achievement in the game. i think you are actually worried for no reason. ccp will likely sell the services for tokens like they do with a plex. there is almost guaranteed ingame trading allowed for the tokens to increase the demand. the tokens will likely be universal so that no one service will be unavailable to people wanting to get the items without paying rl money for them. it doesn<U+FFFD>t make a difference to ccp, since the tokens have to initially be payed in rl cash, but who cares where they are spent as long as they offer only fluff."
"except that that is exactly what we are seeing. ccp said they would limit to fluff items, but already there is attribute remaps planned and later there is the special boxed edition implant, that does nothing but allow gameplay advantages(faster training and 20% bonus to rof for 35days) for rl money. think about that for a second , the first things they did after saying it would be fluff only was adding ingame advantages for plex and a huge boost to players buying a certain ccp product instead of subscribing to the game normally. things specifically designed to give advantages over people who just pay for a subscription. ccp is taking a very liberal view of non-gameplay altering services in that their first new service gives a gameplay advantage.you can argue all you want how little actual difference it makes and how a newbie with a bonus rof is only competative with veterans, but even if true it doesn't change the fact, that they get ingame advantages over people who only pay a normal subscription for eve online. a newbie who downloaded the game will get ****d in an otherwise even fight by a noob who bought a special edition copy of eve. ccp is selling ingame advantages and every advantage was paid by rl cash by someone. this is so even if they chose to trade it for isk instead. earlier with plex trading it was just about trading gametime and that wasn't different from paying a normal subscription in any other way than that someone else payed your subscription fee for that month.now you can like it or hate it, but don't spout nonsense about it not giving you an advantage."
"edited for errorsit would seem you answered your own question.breeder slaves are not illegal (strange but true) while actual slaves are illegal. so you got shot for having slaves which unfortunately destroyed your breeder slaves.in missions you want to be careful to not pick up illegal items unless you are willing to deal with the problems associated with them. lots of missions drop extra \"junk\" and often times it is drugs or other less than legal items. be sure to check the info on the item for legality in your area. if it says nothing it is ok, otherwise heed its warning. anyway fly safe and have fun."
"moved from assembly hall."
"i've always thought it would be good to have both intros. you log in, then watch the old intro, which goes into the back story and explains a bit about the four races. then you go into the character creator. then when you have finished it plays the new intro.i think it would be great to go \"take control of the destiny that is rightfully yours.\"-creat charachter-\"you are about to become what all men should fear.\""
"supported"
"no... actually you don't have to have the cargo hold open to do that. you drag to the icon on the hud to do it as well. however, i am ambivalent to this change. it isn't necessary, but i can see why you think it is annoying"
"seriously you had to resort to ad hominem attack? i simply pointed out that your logic was flawed because you were trying to compare ships that have different roles. you trivialise my post, but being able to jump/bridge into a cynojammed system is a huge plus point. being able to use gates means that unlike a titan you can jump/bridge from highsec or even move around without using the jump drive to get into range.i'm no ccp fanboi right now, however i'm not going complain that black ops are useless in their current form when that is clearly not the case."
"look...i never said the ships are useless. they are useful to a point.but stating that some key ability of the thing is to jump thru conventional star gates deflects attention from the pre-nerfed state of the ship as relates to having to have a stupid hauler follow the thing about in order to do its job unlike any other cyno capable ship in the game.and realistically as the things cannot use a cocd jumping about through gates is a rather poor idea simply from a tactical point of view.anyway i am fully aware that i am tilting at windmills here. i just find it annoying, shortsighted, and frustrating that a ship designed to reward non-blob mentality and create a \"thinking\" tactical option is left nerfed while capital blob-online and drake-blob online have taken over the game and even encouraged by ccp's designer's.ah well. **edit**thank crap for wormholes. if they were not in the game i would have unsubbed both of my paid subscriptions quite some time ago"
"what about in a situation where i may be out on oversea military deployment w/o internet access. can i have a trusted relative who holds no interest in eve to continue skill training?and if an employee of ccp were to discover it, would they be willing to turn a blind eye knowing the circumstances behind it?hypothetically speaking, of course."
"updated with comprehensive ui changes thread. 10/18/2010"
"yes, this needs attention and must be updated"
"i would love to see the sin getting 10 drones"
"not supported. the idea is stupid. if we are likening in game insurance to real life insurance, no one should have insurance. no insurance company would insure pod pilots ships in rl, even miners technically risk there ships against belt rats (although they would have to be afk or stupid to die to any high sec belt rat)."
"concord defines it as a criminal act. getting destroyed by them and then having them pay you insurance is quite stupid. remove the insurance payouts for high sec ganks."
"supported, crime should pay in eve but shouldn't pay that well"
"1.0"
"no... well sort of.i really like people bying plex in the eve interface. nothing beats making a bunch of isk, selling it to someone else, and playing eve more or less for free. and i really don't mind letting people pay for a remap. i guess in theory you could constantly remap for whatever skills you happen to have in your queue. this would get them a higher sp per hour average. but you get a remap every few months for free anyway. a few months is really not that bad, and it's about what you'd spend on a decently focused training regimen anyway.what i really don't want to see is the korean mmo thing where they charge you real money for an awesome sword or something. eve already has a crazy time investment until you can become competent at the game, i really don't want to have to add a $50 awesome gear micro transaction on top of that....and yes i saw the \"cosmetic only\" option. but i agree with the previous posters. if you open the micro-transaction door it's not to long until some corporate higher up decides that people should be paying more money."
"noevery game i have seen going this way got worse because of it. more and more attention goes to superficial additions just to be able to rig in more cash. in the end the game suffers. heavily.and don't even get started with that \"cosmetic only\" stuff. that's where it starts, but never where it ends.the plex system is great, in fact, it's genius. every pay to play game should have it. but that is where it should stop. no remaps for plex, no skillpoint buying, not even pink paint for your ships for $2."
"noi'd rather pay more for my accounts. i'll end up quitting the game altogether if ccp continues down this road."
"no unless new cosmetic things are introduced to the game not just for the walking in stations stuff but the ability to customize ship-skins/have alliance/corp decals and the like, then i'd be all right with some cosmetic only microtransactions."
"4th bonus on af's , excellent dont forget the amarr ships too"
"1.0"
"just break out the resist bonus that af's get so that people stop whining.i.e... give the jag the same resists as the sabre, claw, hound and then the additional resists found on the jag hull can be broken out and made the 4th bonus. please oh please do not do dumb things like give the jag tracking bonuses or ab bonuses. though giving the retri 1 med slot in exchange for a low would be fine."
"blasters really do need some love."
"support the optimal range boost,reason: it seems the optimal range is lacking compared too the guns tracking speed when using the highest hitting ammo (and thus shortest optimal range), this specially happens when using the smallest of the three gun types in every category of size small/medium/large ( e.g. light electron blasters, heavy electron blasters, electron blaster cannons.moar optimal plz by about 10% (so if its 10km make it 11km etc)"
"1.0"
"do you really think +1km of optimal will solve \"the blaster problem\"?"
"ok i'd only support this if your character in station could shoot at and kill other characters in a mechanic similar to getting podded. i don't care if the erp station ends up being in jita or rens. i'll get my little pedestrian concorded just to shoot at perverts.the one thing i worry about with incarna is that eve will essentially turn into two games. one will be classic eve in space, where refined gentlemen play the market in between managing vast empires and engaging in rousing bouts of intelligible combat.and the other will be space second life. in which a bunch of greasy perverts sit in their parent's basements with the door locked and the blinds drawn. spending hour after hour pleasuring their neither regions that look suspiciously like the neither regions of the strippers on screen. all while their character stands like a statue in the main lobby of some virtual strip joint.and you know it's only a matter of time before every weirdo with a \"robust and detailed character creation engine\" and a fetish starts up some sort of sex for plex scheme. also you'll get \"rp guilds\" starting up. that doesn't sound bad until you look at some of the pedophile \"rp guilds\" that keep getting in trouble over in wow.i wouldn't really mind this so much. there would just be certain stations that you do not dock in. and even if there are two different types of eve, you can stay out of the one you don't like. however one of them will get on fox news, and it's not going to be serious space ships for refined gentlemen."
"good research sir"
"1.0"
"pretty much yeah."
"nice ideas, would be cool to see more eafs around, theyre nice little ships that are currently sorely underpowered."
"keres is only good for regional gate camping, try this fitting:[keres, keres fleet tackler import 1]overdrive injector system iioverdrive injector system iicapacitor power relay iigistii b-type 1mn microwarpdrivewarp disruptor iitrue sansha warp disruptorsensor booster ii, scan resolutionsensor booster ii, scan resolutionlight ion blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge slight ion blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge ssmall targeting system subcontroller iismall targeting system subcontroller iiwarrior ii x2on l5:3500 m/s2528 scan res50 km point on overloadinsta tackles almost everything"
"from where i stand, it need a greater locking range. it's tracking disruptors can quite easily out-optimal it's maximum locking range. please boost the locking range to match or better the crucifier."
"it has always bugged me that the kitsune has a lower lock range and scan res than the griffin.supported."
"yep, they need a buff."
"my overall feeling is that eass being terrible is just one aspect of a wider imbalance (tl:dr is that interceptors are all-round really good at all the things you'd want in a pvp frigate hull which makes the other pvp frigates mostly surplus to requirements).having said that, an eas tweaking would be nice to see."
"while my initial thought was ... buff their ehp to the level of an af, this sounds good aswell."
"you want to be able to destroy stations you're losing, while still being able to get your stuff out, at your convenience.like self destructing a ship, and the modules aren't destroyed, but go into a permanent wreck, that only you can loot. not supported. if you're that spiteful to deny a station to those who've beaten you, be ready to lose everything, when you pop the station."
"here is where i point out your \"data\" only shows the number of player owned outposts vs player owned systems. it does not in fact show the hundreds upon hundreds of completely unconquered space because let's face it, it's largely worthless."
"excellent."
"note that wrecking a station would imply having system control for at least 8 hours. that's an odd definition of \"beaten\".but even if it weren't what of it? i can self destruct a ship; why not a station? the basis of my proposal is that outposts just aren't that special any more."
"here is where i point out that you should learn both to read and to count. maths is really pretty easy once you try to learn it, and there are lots of good people willing to help you start.after that, you can make a start on basic logic - which will perhaps enable you to explain why the number of claimed systems is in any way relevant.once you have done that, then you'll be in a position to possibly make a useful contribution to this thread."
"i like that idea!"
"i'm not sure that it's really needed to make them recoverable. it's not like it's that hard to build them. however if they are recoverable, then the upgrades should not be."
"to get some real numbers behind the discussion:select count( `solarsystemid` ) from `mapsolarsystems` where `regionid` in (select `regionid` from `mapregions` where `regionid` < 11000000 and `factionid` is null) and `security` <= 0.0;that returns 2858; regionid greater than 11000000 are wh space.station ( conquerable 1 ) (typeid=12242) => 23station ( conquerable 2 ) (typeid=12294) => 23station ( conquerable 3 ) (typeid=12295) => 22total: 68caldari research outpost (typeid=21642) => 40amarr factory outpost (typeid=21644) => 174gallente administrative outpost (typeid=21645) => 60minmatar service outpost (typeid=21646) => 172total: 446"
"yes i support this"
"the algorithm is called rsa. the name of the company is called rsa. the first (widely known) 2fa hardware dongles were sold by rsa inc. and called rsa authenticators. the blizzard authenticator(tm) may or may not be based upon a rsa authenticator(tm) from the rsa. it's been over 17 years (patent life) since their 1978 paper so there may be cheaper alternatives than from rsa inc. but in the same way that people make xerox copies and google the internet even if they use a canon and (shudder) bling, i usually see them referred to as rsa authenticators, whether describing the blizzard model or another."
"thi is fairly usefull, and shall be done. login history as well please. e-mail with a recovery key active for three days every time a password is changed. password and e-mail cannot be changed on the same day, at least three days must pass. character has to be unlocked before it can be moved/transferedsold, the unlocking prosess may take three days/whateverthere is an enormous amount of security features that can be implemented. wedo deserve more security."
"no remap for plex ccp getting greedy maybe change from 12 month to 6 month."
"i'd just like to thank ccp for going through with this despite the forum outpouring of tears.anyone who thinks this is stepping over some invisibile line is a moron."
"i'm not sure i really care, it's not a feature i'm ever likely to use but if someone else wants to pay $15 to squeze out a few extra sp let them."
"currently capital ship bobbing is out of control. on the next expansion ccp will be introducing micro-transactions. time to take advantage of that. i propose the following to solve the capitals-online issue:introduce an added subscription fee for capital ships. if you don't have the appropriate licence then no character on your account can board the ship.- carrier $/lbs. 4.99- dreadnought 7.99- supercarrier 29.99- titan 49.99those are per month. also the numbers can be adjusted to fit the business model.pros - this would separate the series players from the casual ones. high sec would be unaffected. no more unnecessary hot drops on a lone t1 battleship in low sec because of a bored scar pilot. extra income for ccp to reinvest in projects like eve.cons - if your in a super capital and you let your titan/scar pilot licence expire then after down time you log in then you will be in a pod next to the titan/scar.feedback is welcome and trolling will not be tolerated."
"supporting a good decision."
"stupid, stupid idea."
"you are welcome to remove 4.99lbs from me for my capital subscription(i am trying to lose weight anyway)"
"never gonna happen."
"those exact words were uttered by ccp about micro-transactions."
"and just like with microtransactions they are right until ccp proves them wrong."
"so i guess you have not read the forums or watched or read any recent ccp interviews recently ehh? we are a month away from micro-transactions. now this proposal is not about if they should be allowed or not. if you keep trying to derail my thread i will report you and you will be banned. any part of this not crystal clear?"
"they use a different currency in europe mr. globally educated."
"and none of them are \"lbs\".pound sterling (<U+FFFD>) =/= pound (lbs)signed;mr. globally educated."
"yeah i would like 20lbs of carrier please."
"general is for qq, this board is for improving pew pew."
"oh look.. its crono effect without the caps/boldtype and still the same amount of aragonce and stupidity wrapped into one nice little package.never mind the fact that it takes 6 months to a year to get into a cap... not to mention a great deal of isk and time and effort to be able to replace the damn things when you blow im up.if it was that easy.... my alliance would have a crapload of them.just how bold faced foolish can you get?oh wait.... your trolling aren't you... hmmm i need more coffee."
"i loledhard over thisi sincerely hope taht he is trolling. this is by far the worst idea i've seen around. it's only a step away from paying monthly for evry ship you fly."
"1m isk that this is cromo's new alt."
"you should wait for a month or two after plex remap will be on tq, then it's will not be so stupid already.not supported, anyway."
"it already costs 800m isk for the capital and racial carrier skillbooks alone, to use an example.couple this with a minimum of 2 years' training time to fly a capship even remotely competently and i feel the bar is already set high enough.not supported."
"definitely not supportedlax"
"supporting an excellent idea. obviously capital pilots get more fun out of the game so they should pay more."
"yeh i had in mind different ships, thanks for pointing that (dunno why but i always think that domi has 5% per level on armor repaire efficiency instead of l hybrid damage....)megathron err if blaster fitted in need mwd bonus deimos should get a mwd speed bonus too... less cap only sucks and yeah fail hac"
"just give the hulls bigger capacitors.. maybe a slight neut resist bonus or something.that's if gallente are going to be stuck with the most utterly ******ed play style ever."
"supportedi also think using reaction silos to produce booster intermediates is kind of a pain in the ass.plus, there are all these booster-only production slots on outposts that are totally silly and rarely used."
"sounds good, the comedown period should be double the duration of the positive effect, and double the intensity of the effect so if a booster lasted 15 minutes and boosted your shield repair rate by 25%, the comedown period would be 30 minutes and a 50% reduction in shield repair."
"the biggest problem with boosters now is getting the materials needed for productionthe amount of available materials is so low and if you put that together with the isk it takes to set up a production line you get extremely high prizes for boosters which leads to low usei looked into booster production but apparently each type of gas is only available in 1 region of 0.0 which makes it hard to produce boosters if you don't live in those regions"
"lykouleon, 2,7,10,15,20"
"wr3cks, 1, 3, 4, 6, 28"
"syberbolt8 7,10,1,5,6"
"seirkanis,1,6,10,23,15"
"grozdan boyadijev,5,9,10,21,28,30"
"abdiel kavash,7,10,14,15,21note that some proposals are already a subset of others: i would consider 10 to already include 17, 21 to include 22 and 29, etc."
"the breadmaster, 1, 3, 7, 22, 24"
"kelestria - 1,6,9,7,12"
"irmaus,1,7,14,22,15"
"gregh rakrot 7, 1, 10, 18, 21"
"philip ogtaulmolfi 7, 8, 10, 11, 19"
"alvar kesh 1,4,6,7,18"
"bartos100 1,4,5,6,7,8,14,24,28,30"
"m'aak'han,5,7,10,15,30"
"formith,10,30,1,5,14"
"aralyn cormallen, 5, 6, 10, 15, 27"
"mara rinn,11,7,10,30,13"
"mazzilliu, 12,7,14,27,30,23,3"
"making textures with camoflauge, jungle camo, desert camo, any sort of camo.seriously, navy ships don't need jungle camo. also with the textures of the sansha ships on sisi being dipped in the jungle camo paint i think now is the time to call them and tell them to stop with the camo paint jobs, and get ideas from the community on how to paint the ships.sign if you support the idea of removing the camo paint jobs for something more spacey. or tell ccp to put trees in space."
"camo is supposed to be context-sensitive, if they want to put camo on it should resemble ( roughly ) the background in eve lots of black, maybe some stars smattered about or some touches of color for nebulae."
"camo on space ships is bad. camo on space ships where the effective size of a blotch of the cammo is probably as large as a forest itself kind of ruins the perceived size of the ship also.what exactly are the ships hiding in that they want to blend in. is it in case they crash land on a temperate world in a forest?"
"] bug buster > btw.. is there any way to save groups in fittings? it's kind of annoying to group every ship newly fitted...this too."
"while i can see the grouping information being saved, the ammo stuff might be tricky. e.g. some people need containers to hold all the charges."
"this topic is posted, what, once every week or so? and what will the majority of people say?nooooooooo"
"but why would you want to do this? just get an alt, that way you can have both characters in space at the same time, and you can have 6 characters if you want to manufacture."
"ccp, for the good of eve, hire me. bottom line, your getting light on the content for this game, you have a huge backlog of bugs and balance issues, you need to increase revenue sources from eve to improve the state of the expansions and patches because your other projects are requiring more of your employees and its starting to show, your going to scare off the veterans if this game goes the way of micro-transactions even in a cosmetic sense because the community does not have the faith that it will stop there. so you need ways to increase revenue by thickening current streams and opening new ones all without causing a backlash from your most vocal players.. its lucky for you i really love this game and happen to have several well thought out solutions. this is a serious post, i'm a theorist, i have an iq of 138, i think very out of the box which is what you need, and i play eve religiously. you need fresh ideas because lately they've just been stale. eve can out innovate the competition instead of give way to it.you don't have to believe in me to vote this up. just what i have to say."
"no."
"someone with an iq of 138 ought to be smart enough to send a job application to hr instead of a suggestions box."
"as cool as it might be to be employed by ccp i was using that to make a point about ccp not using their most valuable asset which is the diverse thinking of their customers.. all of the forums for ideas and proposals have threads that are years old and if ccp would have an actual presence here and involve themselves more with the community directly in intelligent discussion they could come up with innovative solutions for their problems.. i know the representatives are a step towards communication and i'm not arguing that they shouldn't be there only that more needs to be done.would i do all of this and more for ccp? sure.. do i think they will hire me or did i make this as a resume? no. if you cant keep up with my point why bother replying."
"are you sure you're serious?because this is either the dumbest post i've ever read, or a troll.please be a troll."
"i'm sure if you were actually applying to ccp, only having an i.q. of 138 on your resume wouldn't get you far."
"which means he has an iq of 8 and not 138.but that's besides the point... he's right however... ccp is frakking up royally... but this troll isn't how you deal with it."
"ok yes eve is primarily a pvp focused sandbox. but that doesn't mean the missions have to be boring. why not have interesting missions?as far as game play goes we need something more than \"go here and shoot waves of bad guys\", \"take this box 4 jumps away and drop it off in station\", or \"go mine roids!\"and as far as the mission flavor text goes. i did like the linked missions and the epic arcs. the mission text did help cut down the tedium. granted digging dolls out of asteroids was a bit odd, really didn't make you feel like the capsuleer demigod the intro movie hyped you up to be.actually i'd like to see the mission text do more to let you know about the lore of eve. after all this time all i ever did was install the game, watch the intro movie, and read a bit of mission text. i know more about alliance politics than i do about new eden.speaking of which did you know that (by lore) there are futanari in the gelente faction?"
"nofor a couple of reasons.1. how do you figure out who sets them off or not? it'd have to be some sort of standings comparison vs the person who put them down. and even then do they go off when neutrals come by, or reds?2. if you don't let people put them on gates then nobody will use them. it's like saying you can't put warp disruption bubbles on gates.3. if you do let people put them on gates then 0.0 alliances will lock down a pocket of systems by getting everyone to skill up mines then spam the entrance gate.4. only the cloaked ones will get used. if they detonate at 2.5km then people will just warp to the minefield within 50km with a ship that can shoot things from that far away, and then just creep towards the minefield blasting distant mines as they go.you could fix this by having the mines being cloaked, then when you get too close they decloak and fly at you. then you have a set amount of time to lock on and shoot them before they get you. actually that could be pretty fun."
"not supported.as horrible as current invention chances are, the market is fairly balanced around them. i understand where this topic comes from from an rp standpoint, but not every game design decision has to make sense from an rp standpoint. after all, it's not like you're forced to do nothing but invest the time inventing while the job is running."
"i think the real problem is with the quality of the rng in the game.my experience has been that results do not follow the expected bivariate distribution. i do not have the time/inclination to run chi-squared tests against them. one relatively simple way to create more mean-centered results would be to create a hidden \"luck\" variable when delivering multiple jobs. if your last delivery was a success, the luck variable goes negative; and it goes positive after each failure. this was the technique that they used in dungeon master ("
"hmm ... we have about 1year 10months worth of inventions tracked and the average success rate matches the expected value. over all corp members and the last 30days it is 48.94%. (thats the number i have easily accessible in the app). according to the invention calculator it should be 48-49%"
"i was hoping we could start seeing faction npcs in wh space quite soon. as we all know wh space is unclame able no mooning ect. so why not ccp have the facation npcs move in as whell as been in noraml space. reson for this they could start building dockable stations and start porction there owme subsytems, making t3 a realy cool prodction line.at the same time for people living in wh space it would give them new isk rescorse to be self suffient in wh space. the only dwar back is the facation npcs that move in would have to be t2 fitted but this will draw in new players and old players there also. any whay thanks for reading not the best poster in the world but please enjoy and look foward to reading you comments."
"you already have the sleepers in there? thats not enough for you to earn money?"
"sleeprs are cool don't get me worng. what i mean buy this is pruley to bring in t3 facaton ships and new t3 ships. made buy npcs thats what i ment buy all npcs sorry. they also as a twist could have no bountys at all just drops."
"drones don't have bounty either, yet entire drone regions exist. drop there is much more difficult to haul out than you t3 loot.just wait for the new salvage ship ccp will deploy in next expansion."
"not supported."
"idea needs a lot of work. i do agree that something needs to be done to make wh space a little more livable, i don't see any reason why the pirate factions wouldn't want in on the fun either, but it needs to be thought out before you post it here."
"ok thanks for the info guys ill look at refine this idead only reason for posting was recommded. this can be closed thead now ty againg."
"/signed"
"applying blue to this thread. a formal report is being prepared and will be delivered in some days when it is ready."
"thanks xhagen...i think we can safely say end of next week at the latest, right?"
"tbh (w.r.g to vuk lau quoted by op) :* he stated the problem - many 0.0 alliances have funding issues. fine, it's perfectly plausible without getting into details of the size/composition and where on the eve map are these alliances located. * then he says there are huge amount of isk in the game and states the source is not 0.0. i would counter this by examining the isk density per population vs system sec (especially after dominion), not withstanding taking into account the mineral exports coming from 0.0 (especially the drone regions). that will give a more accurate picture. to debunk the risk argument, deep 0.0 are almost as safe as highsec. if a whole swath of the area is under constant nap, even more so. you can use the risk argument, but it won't carry much water imo.* he then states the biggest 0.0 problem is population density. no easy solution, which true. assuming his proposal (as partial remedy to this problem) has something to do with implementing more 0.0 entry points, then i would have to ask, what problem does it solve? how does he equate population density to the number of entry points (bearing in mind player's playstyle and inclination)? no, if you want to lower the living cost, the direct way is best - lower the sovereignty costs :a) the ripple effect is self-contained and you can opt for a dynamic scaling. yes, i'm aware about the difficulties of deep 0.0 alliances in the fringes in moving things to market, hence the dynamic scaling of sovereignty costs say from the center for the universe - jita. it is as it should be and it's not a real problem - the same way as woods -> village -> towns -> cities -> metropolis (aka jita).b) the effect affects everyone in 0.0, as opposed to the static geo-location in the proposed entry points (which may favour certain alliances/power blocks).call me paranoid, but the proposal to increase the number of 0.0 entry points may seem reasonable, but it looks to me as a veiled attempt to shorten the logistic ops to high-sec market centres - which if done incorrectly, benefits certain geo locations. even if it was done correctly, the homogeneity will destroy eve in the long term. i hope the ccp game designers have enough foresight to recognize that blandness will kill a game, not a matter of if, it's a matter of when. i do not believe addressing the number of entry points into 0.0 will partly solve the 0.0 population issue. you're more likely to open a new can of worms. concentrate on the fundamentals instead of the window dressing./better clarity"
"the only thing that has been consistent with each csm has been scandal. for those that have moot been keeping up, please read this thread:"
"all i see is a bunch of speculation with no proof by some idiot who reads like he has an axe to grind with just about everybody. like most people in that thread i simply say who gives a ****, theyre getting results and thats what matters."
"i can't see any sort of scandal you're alluding to. the 'worst' that is going on is two csm members disagreeing about formal/informal communications. big deal, we're 9 different people who will disagree at times.instead of posting ridiculous claims, op should focus on their terrible ah proposal. it seems to be somewhat lacking in support."
"for those who cant be arsed to click the link thats because its ******ed, just so you know."
"my ah thread is about a balance for capitals. but let's not derail this thread and focus on the activities of a csm member that has quickly turned the first respected csm into lolcsm."
"there has been nothing more than an unsubstantiated rumour at this point. as the csm member this is directed towards has denied the rumour (and nobody has provided any evidence showing otherwise) i'm happy to give them the benefit of the doubt and let the matter rest."
"i don't know, mazz is going off the handle about mynxe is accusing her of so you down playing thing with your damage control is not going to help."
"some drama between 2 csm members is hardly a scandal. in fact, on the internet it's basically commonplace. of course, if you're intent on seeing scandals everywhere, you could with a lot of effort inflate this to be one. but it'd be a rather boring scandal to be honest. :/"
"if this is what passes for scandal on csm 5 then son, i am disappoint."
"supported.in addition to tweaks to the individual bo ships, and significant jump range boost, i also think that this class of ship and every cov-ops ship should be removed from local chat to make them genuinely stealthy"
"cosmetic onlyship and character texture options would be pretty sweet amongst other things.how cool would it be for a role-playing corp to have uniforms? or a gang full of ships with a unique texture.massive opportunities here. it wouldn't effect the people who don't want anything to do with micro transactions but would give some cool options for those that do and another source of revenue for our ccp overlords."
"no"
"definitely supported.i haven't flown my hawk for months. it sucks balls.make them stronger"
"i agree, fix hybrids please."
"this as well"
"supported"
"i would saymegathrons and rokhs with large railguns work bad.ferox and any ship with medium railguns work worse.it is time to rework railguns."
"wouldn't mind seeing small tracking increase for rails (minor) and up the multiplier for damage by 10-20% :/"
"making eafs more viable would be nice indeed."
"either this or make them cost half as much to make, the former is still better."
"reasonable and welcome changes."
"valid. concise. purposefull."
"great idea!"
"yes. the eaf's simply dont do anything unique at the moment and they all to one extent or another require festooning with faction mods to have any chance of doing what the bonuses suggest they are meant to.wishlisting from here on in.hyena... i'd like to see 25km t2 webs and a 5% velocity bonus per skill level rather than making it a frigate killer by giving it a dronebay of note and turrets. crazy fast frigate neutralizer? please. being able to web something like a dramiel to the point you can outrun it and take away its almost pre speed nerf agility? nice.sentinel is pretty good as is, but i'd like to see it be able to field 5 light drones (with having no turret or missile slots as penance).keres is pointless unless you want to set yourself a challenge. let it scram people at 20 km with max skills and t2 and make it hated and loved; perhaps a range bonus to warp scrams only and not disruptors?kitsune needs serious ecm cap reduction to make that idea work, an increase in lock range and sensor strenght and possibly redesign of slot layouts."
"saying \"ur bad at math\" doesn't do anything to make my point less valid. you still have yet to show us where you found a count of how many 0.0 systems there are total."
"an excellent idea and well laid out... ccp give this one a serious look."
"supported"
"sounds good. not super high priority, but would be nice.would also like to see engine trails back.it would also be nice if missiles had an effect making it look like they came out of launchers. at the moment they just sort of spawn from the midpoint. salvage beam is the same."
"support, as long as it isn't diverting resources away from other teams working on improving existing material, like maybe fw or missions getting some attention, and as long as minimum graphics still has pretty low requirements."
"i have been looking at getting tech 2 pulses to go with my auto's and being a big fan of the tech 1 cruiser line up thats the first place i think of when i decide what weapon to train.the omen is the definition of a laser platform and the only ammar cruiser that gets a dmg bonus that makes them more effective then unbonused auto cannons. the direct problem is it's fitting, it is way harder to fit out especially for a newer player.even with all skills at 5 it requires 0 cpu resistance plates and a power grid rig to fit a tech 2 pulse and a 800mm plate/mwd. even then you need the highest of meta mods to put it all together without going over cpu.with most people flying zealots and moving on to the harb it is easy to forget that this should be a new players first armor laser ship above the frigate class and should be fit with tech 1 and low meta gear at newbe skill.(electronics and engineering 4) i did some eft work on my near skilless hauler alt caila boosting her eft skill to what a new ammar pilot would have and what a tech 2 ammar pilot would have to make comparisons and came to the following conclusions.* boost the grid by 75 to allow a armor pulse fit at all levels of skill.* boost cpu by 50 to allow for a greater mix of mods and meta levels.as you know the vexor, rupture, arbitrator, moa, stabber and thorax have the fitting to excell in there combat roles without the use of rigs and expensive high meta mods. i think new ammar pilots should have the same opportunity especially since no other cruiser gets the all important dmg bonus which will become a big part of there line up.please give your support and discuss i will be glad to change the proposal based on your suggestions."
"looks good; no reason it shouldn't be somewhat comparable to other t1 cruisers."
"poastin"
"said the two days old alt. out of curiosity, do you already have your cerebral accelerator plugged in? 'cause ccp would never give anyone who pays additional rl cash any type of advantage......"
"tl;dr: asteroid belts turned into single large asteroids. asteroids are cat scanned to find ores inside. to get to the ore the miner first has to drill away useless rock and then mine the exposed minerals.for this new system to work some changes have to be made to certain items and mechanics in eve.new asteroids:asteroids will have to be a lot fewer and larger. what is a belt today would be pretty much a single asteroid.each asteroid also contains many minerals, not just a single one.new asteroid scanner:when activating the new scanner on an asteroid, the ship will go into geosynchronous orbit around it. that is the ship will follow the asteroids rotation, and will be unbumpable.once the scanner is active a new \"asteroid view\" mode will be available. the asteroid is viewed in depth slices, like a cat scan.the goal for the miner is to find areas in the asteroid with high concentrations of the mineral he's after. he does this by going through different depths of the asteroid with the scanner and thereby observing the composition of the asteroid.new mining laser configurations:all mining lasers will now have to use crystals. two new crystals are added: the all purpose drilling crystal and the all purpose mining crystal.to get to the sweet spots the miner will first have to dig away the useless rock around it. this is done with the drilling crystal. at this stage it might be a good idea to reposition your ship so as little drilling as possible opens up as much minerals as possible. once the area is uncovered the miner switches to the mining crystal (either all purpose or one of the specific ones). the mining crystals can dig through rock as well, but not as quickly. the drilling crystals will on the other hand drill through everything and never deposit anything to the ship, so if you're not careful you will burn away valuable minerals.strip miners are of course more effective than normal mining lasers, but they will also be more blunt. while they will quickly dig through rock and suck up what's inside, they will leave scraps behind that they can't waste time to collect. this gives newer miners an excellent opportunity to help in any mining op, or to have something left to mine in the starter systems.i also think this would reduce macro miners as it will be a system that is pretty hard to automate.graphically it will also look pretty cool where mined out asteroids will be unstable and full of holes, giving an indication that there is no use in attempting any further mining at that site."
"nice, i might even be tempted to mine again if this were the case.. immersion in mining, who would have thought . oh btw mix this up with the modular pos idea and u can set up short term mining faciities wich store and process (to a degree) minerals then dismantled and moved to a new location (this ofcrs is a fantacy)... gives mining ops a totally new meaning."
"i like it, i think the same could be acomplished with ice, make public ice comets that appear on the overveiw and ones with rarer types scanable. some rules apply to minning them as astroroids!food for thought!"
"one problem i see is that, with the level of tech we have in eve, there's not really anything \"useless\", whatsoever. everything can be broken down to it's base elements. therefore, \"useless\" is purely an extension of market value.otherwise, m,aking mining (ice and ore) more active sounds great to me."
"really? capital pilots get more fun?... really???i dunno man i have more fun in a rifter than in a chimera... in fact capital ships have more restrictive gameplay... cant go in high sec for caps, cant dock for supercamps (and above) cant use gates... so why should they pay more for less content?i agree that there is an increase of capitals and supercaps in the game... there are also that many that will exploderize... remember one of the eve online rules, you will die...besides, bigger ship = bigger target, simple as that."
"maybe, same style of stupidity. i will place that bet!one million isk on weither this is cromo, i get a mil if its some random idiot!/shakealso not supported!edit: also how did you lose a dramiel to a badger!"
"not supported."
"no thank you... we already pay 15$ a month on each account, unless you remove that fee, i don't aprove this micro-transaction bs."
"try again? ccp clearly stated that micro transactions wouldn't have any in-game impact. it would be more for cosmetic things, like furry hats an stuff like that."
"one of the worst proposals so far. so yeah... not supported.it takes a lot of time to get into carriers/dreads/sc/titans, not to mention a lot of isk. if you don't like getting killed by caps then get your own, just don't come here to try and punish those who put in a ton more training and isk than you into pvp (for a single ship) and then complain they shoot you. (can't realy expect to beat an f16 with a paper plane and then go tell the f16 pilots to pay moar!)"
"is that you cromo effect?"
"pay per game content? great idea!!! i sugegst that all hisec players pay an extra $10 a month as they are safe, lowsec players play for free as lowsec content sucks, and all 0.0 people have to donate all their stuff to me. sound fair?"
"i would gladly pay the high sec tax, if all the ninja salvagers and suicide gankers have to pay it too. seriously, the op is a damned troll and everyone in this thread knows it. quit while you're ahead."
"this sounds like: \"punish the cap/supers-pilots, for using the game as it is, for having spent, billions and billions of isk for skills, fitting and ship and had to pay their accounts for all that time (which means years), to finally be a cap pilot\" regardless of the restrictions cap/supers pilots have, the costs and the need of logistics, in case of the supers an dedicated alt, that already cost the fee for an extra account...thats just one of the stupidest things ive ever heared in my entire eve time...\"pro: this will separate the serials from casuals...\" what a damn bull****, this will just introduce a 2 class society, btw...unnessesary hotdrop...lol, unnessesary maybe, but why are they doing it? because they can! and lowsec isnt meant to be a safe place for ppl like you, thats for what the empire is for...this also ignores the simple fact, that eve is now 7 years old, which includes a significant increase of ppl. finally able to be a cap pilot...was the same as they introduced battleships...arent they out of control, there are still more battleships in eve than caps...this trolling is just bull**** and ofc. not supported"
"hi,firstly; i apologise if this has already been proposed, i could not find it while searching.i know the contacts system can be used in a variety of different ways but i want to suggest a small change: if you happen to flag a corporate and that corporation then closes can that corporation and flag be removed from either your personal or corporate listing? it becomes very tedious having to go through and check to see if the corporation is still open/in use.with this in mind can i also propose that if you declare war against a corporation that the war automatically retracts once the corporation closes?i welcome your thoughts on the matter.kro"
"\"the massive hitpoint buffer and modest dps lowers the drake's battlefield target priority substantially, and all the while, the ship can comfortably do what it does best; hit hard, and soak up damage like a sponge.\"you are contradicting yourself in the same paragraph.modest dps and hit hard ?i think your initial assesment is true.drakes are popular because they are a low priority target having modest dps and big tank.who want to be in the harby/cane in a gang full of drakes ??of course the bcu versus pdu/dcu slot choice is where the drake has its firepower v defence choice to be made.i dont understand why you think it is possible to fit max attack and max defence at the same time ?you make your choices when fitting a drake like anyother shipand its most def not possible to fit make dps/tank with a mwd and medium neut + tackle these are all choices.the cpu/grid of the drake is fine it prevent max t2 fits allready."
"h3llhound,7,12,1,14,28,15"
"kwashi 1,5,7,8,10,14,15,27especially 15!"
"karmic enigma 27,5,10,18,26 about n26: just remove wh restriction, let it be anchored in sov 0.0 or wh, not all 0.0."
"shows what you know, people always try to shoot my gila...then i warp into a space desert and laugh at them!i like guristas ship choice but the mission mega and domi should be the navy paint scheme, also on caldari ships(navy raven and scorp) it looks stupid!"
"fully supported. the machariel is a goregeous and powerful bastard of a boat, but the camo is... odd, to say the least."
"yes, it ruins the ships and the atmosphere when playing. completely not fun. look at the widow if you want proper faction textures or so. black + red = win"
"please, eve online art department employees.stop being idiots and make things look better, instead of worse. as it stands people are mad at you. this is somewhat bad.think of the players.edit: enough ships have been ruined, end the madness!"
"forest camo in space makes perfect sense..... no wait, it doesn't."
"i like the urban camo ones, they at least blend in a bit when you zoom out a little, if it weren't for all the bloody blinking lights. only thing is, anything else would be garish or very boring. i pray to god they never give the players the ability to paint our own ships."
"just because i want my barney and baby bop colored legion doesn't mean you have to drive it. you can keep your hot-wheel's red thorax. xdjoking aside and back to the opening post.it is not a good idea to tell them to stop. instead ask them to change direction. let them do the camo, but give us a selection of skins (maybe 2 or 3 different choices) that we could chose to use on our ship. that way they don't get bogged down with allowing player complete control, but it also allows us to make at least slight choices in the way we want to look. it also allows them to continue with some of the things that they want to do (camo paint schemes). personally i like the scorpion's paint. i think it fits in with its attitude of you don't see me.is it a little out of place? yes, but i still like it."
"i was leaning that way once too, but every added camo paint brings me closer to the other extreme. paintjobs similar to tweaked cars or planes would be actually much easier to live with and if ccp is the one making them or choosing from player made ones, i'm certain it will all be in good taste. that is exactly the kind of thing i could see someone doing to his spaceship. i could handle the camo too, if it was a choice instead of a giant case of forced stupidity they dropped on the players."
"it's not like any sort of camo would help at all in space combat... if anything the ships would be painted with something that helps deflect laser fire, which has no reason to be mottled or patchy. who cares if they can see you, if they have you on visual you are already way too close to hide :dsupported!"
"agreed, leave strange camo paints to the ground-ponders in dust"
"supported x1000.camo in space is just plain silly."
"if we were taking these ships into combat in south america then i would understand camouflage. space ships fight in space. honestly, i would expect the navy variants to be brightly colored and shiny, based on the backstory stuff. space camo would be black after all. hate the camo, it is on par with painting daisies on the side of the ships in my opinion."
"my ships come from south america and i don't want them camo painted...+1"
"i support the idea to put trees in space.seriously, large-scale space hydroponics would make for some cool structures to fly and pew pew around."
"ofc."
"whoops, forgot to support."
"i have been researching and testing and doing a lot of balancing on sov warfare. after close to over 100 hrs the following will solve the problem in 0.0- pos' will now be anchored at planets to claim sov instead of moons. this will help tie into dust 514 when it is released.- cyno jammers are unaffected by sbus and now will be an aoe module. each cyno jammer placed will cover a 25-50 au range. so the smaller the system, the less you need to cyno jam the entire system. also the bill for these should be adjusted accordingly.- if you don't have sov in a system but own the station then part of the tax you get from players from the station goes to the sov holder. percentage is up for debate.- sbu's will have the effective hit points and volume lowers to help encourage small gang warfare. gorilla gang warfare too.below are major changes:- ihubs can be anchored at a pos and have a lower volume. this is so they can fit in a jump freighter and smaller alliances do not have to worry about running some 0.0 bottle neck gate camp. thus, allowing smaller alliances the ability to gain access to 0.0.- tcu's will be removed from the game.- station services along with the station itself will have the ehp reduced to make it more tangible for small gangs to have an impact on it.- sov can be claimed by corporations as well as alliances.- ihub volume will be 200km3ihub timers are now changed to one hour cycles.changes to stations:- you can leave a station free for anyone to claim if you are the holding corp for said station.- when station is abandoned the health status goes to zero so anyone claiming the station has to repair shield, armor and hull.- station shields have zero shield recharge so they will not passively repair.big changes to sbus:- anchoring sbu's on 51% of the gates or more will freeze all upgrades with the exception of cyno jammers.- once sbu's are removed, the upgrades pick up where they left off.- new sbu resistances are; 0% when anchoring, 25% when onlining and then 50% when finally online.- there is a anchoring and onlining bonus the more sbus you put down. that way if the sov holder kills one sbu and puts you below the 51% mark, you can get back in action without having to wait the three hours.- that bonus is 50% per sbu- sbu hit points with the exception of shields will be reduced to 2.5 million hit points and the volume decreased to 300 meters cubed. this allows small type gangs and ships to be able to carry these and encourage small gang warfare.pos fighting:- claiming sov will require the pos to be at a planet with the claim sov box check marked.- pos' can still be anchored at moons for logistics, moon mining and reactions and such things.more major changes:- alliances have to claim a constellation as being it's capital or home.- alliances can still claim any claimable system in the entire universe.- all sov payments will remain the same.- if you claim a system outside of your home/capital constellation, then the upgrade cost will start to go up.- only two jump bridges will be allowed in a constellation.- jump bridges can not be online if a cyno jammer is present.- cyno jammer online timers will be reduced to ten minutes.there you have it. sov system solved and allowing all entities to have a shot in 0.0. now that my brain practically exploded with the balancing part of this im off to get some much deserved cake."
"i can see how you have done all the testing of that. the rest of the post is just as ridiculous, if anyone else looks here first and wants to save 5 minutes of their lives."
"so after burning down the entire south, i can tell you that all of your ideas, piled on top of whoever came up with this terrible idea for sov, should be herded, with their creators, into a large furnace, and set to broil."
"cloaking should not be 100%, automatic, unattended, immunity to detection. every hostile on grid should be facing an element of risk that requires them to stay active and a superior opposition to hunt them down. meanwhile cloaked ships, especially acting in gangs, are a substantial threat with complete control over engagement range, initiative and whether to engage in addition to allowing them to gather information in the heart of hostile territory (including the existence of gate camps designed to combat them).logically projecting an energy field (such as a cloak) would lead to the development of tools to detect the methods that cloaked ships use. the continuing development of these opposing tools as they strive to defeat one another can be assumed. on the other hand the idea that one module allows you complete and indefinite protection from every sensor known to eve-science, at any range, and even if they know you are there is unlikely.1) this should be achieved by having specific probes, with a long probe cycle (basically long enough for a skilled cloak pilot to get on the move), that could get a lock on a cloaked ship. though an active covert pilot who keeps his ship moving should still be very safe. these probes should be exclusive to covert ops / recon craft to increase their role in the game. alternatively this role could be given to electronic attack craft if they need a role boost more.1b) [optional] to make the hunt more of a game it could be that a cloaked ship with zero velocity is more stealthy. this means the cloak pilot gets to choose between being harder to lock down (stop, move, stop) or harder to catch (burn!). the goal is that the chase is actually somewhat fun as opposed to the current mechanics which primarily rely on tedium and being afk.2) i also suggest these probes are (slightly) more effective versus stealth bombers (you want to pack threat, you worsen your stealth) to once again increase the role for covert ops craft and differentiate between the two ships. at the moment it makes more sense to scout in a stealth bomber. ships that are not specialist recon vessels are (slightly) easier to probe.3) i would suggest black ops battleships gain a gang bonus that multiplies the detection effect to increase their value. a black ops battleship and supporting small recon (or eaf) ships should be able to pose a sufficient threat to hostile cloaked ships that they can be \"swept\" from the \"hot\" system.i know being able to project threat, while solo, against immense corporations is fun so i expect lots of \"it's fine, we're harmless, you just need to htfu\". likewise i have seen other threads suggesting recon cloak fuel and anti-cloak \"depth charges\". the fuel approach doesn't solve afk cloaking without becoming a real logistical pain to every use of a cloak. it is also an \"automatic\" limit rather than one based on an active opposition. the bomb approach is effectively useless other than against a recon ship scouting gate camps, where the cloaked craft already faces a substantial element of risk.in practice this doesn't change too much since non-afk cloakers can still just logoffski and wait for the hunters to get bored. so they're still pretty safe even when deep in hostile space and able to look for easy ganks. it does mean afk cloakers can be hunted down and systems made harder to scout by a determined, geared and active opposition.and no, i've never lost a ship to a stealth craft personally."
"it isn't. approach the cloaked ship to closer than 2000m and it decloaks."
"wow, this is so cool.noone's ever thought of this before.it's such an incredibly original and well thought out idea!anyone care to link the 5 million identical posts?stop trying to find a solution to afk cloakers. they're only a problem to nullsec carebears.i'd actually be quite interested in getting more interesting stealth mechanics, a manner of countering a stealth ship actively hunting you, but 'ohno, my local isn't all blue' is the funniest kind of crywhine, because it comes from the supposedly hardcore 0.0 types."
"the mods should really start considering afk cloaker posts as spam and start banning people."
"+1i guess mark is camping goonies, now that bca moved out."
"aww good for u 'cause seeing as how your blob still keeps u all safe and sound from this alleged one-man army u're so scared to death of , this alone invalidates your entire argument/whine. but thx for disproving the \"horrors\" of afk cloaking for us, with that wall of whine as a bonus."
"this."
"thumbs up"
"gb2wowkthxbai"
"good counter-arguments"
"why should we repeat something that simple research with eve-search would tell you anyway? you dont really expect your idea is new do you?"
"i propose a drone bay big enough to fit a set of bombers and a set of carriers. in the blogs and stuff they talk about appropriate use of said bombers and fighters and how we should switch to one or the other based on what we are up against.linkageread at the bottom right below the graphs."
"[emphasis mine.]i think you meant to say \"big enough to fit a set of bombers and a set of fighters\".allowing a supercarrier to haul around a carrier might be overkill, much less allowing it to haul around an entire set of carriers. i don't know enough about capital warfare to support or oppose the idea of a supercarrier carrying a set of fighters and a set of bombers."
"i'd rather see them not being able to fit both bombers and fighters. they are annoying enough as it is. they shouldn't be super best at taking out everything from frigate size to carrier size, there has to be limits."
"create & load filters for quick contracts browsing for certain items, has this one been brought up already?"
"this shall be.so say i alone"
"speculation: people might be less willing to spam them at chokepoints into their constellations if the mines attacked everyone, friend and foe, once placed. like real world mines."
"in that case the opposite would happen. they would use them to spam chokepoints for their enemies and induce omgwtfbbq levels of lag jumping into the system. you'd be dead before the grid loaded.of course that's no different than today, so..."
"seems like a fairly obvious dodge op and while i admire the effort to try and drum up a relavent discussion in this forum, that kind of thing doesn't happen very often. most posters here are either too invested in the interests of the candidate in question (in vuk's case, that's a lot of people in the nc) or they're just out to troll.fact is, figures from the most recent devblog make it patently obvious that l4 mission runners are not the greatest faucet around and anomalies are probably generating 2/3 or more of the total isk being shelled out by concord for those dead npcs. is it in-part due to nap politics and 0.0 regions becoming safer than motsu? probably. is that also related to post-dominion lag? almost certainly. but, the issue of churn and new player growth in nullsec is much older than that. dominion was meant as a reform for nullsec, but it actually created even more hardened and immovable power blocs than ever before.the short of it is this: vuk has a very obvious interest in the longevity of his coalition and you cannot blame him for representing his people. this is merely a prime example of why ccp is quite corret to blatantly ignore the csm when they see fit. the csm (like most any representative body) are not in it for us, they are in it for themselves and those whom they are closest to. if an unfounded re-direct to nerf highsec is seen as the most effective way to keep ccp from making incredibly large and over-extended powers in nullsec change how they do business, then that is what he will do."
"they already made dozens (hundreds?) more connections from 0.0 to empire 1.5 years ago. last time i was stuck in deep drone regions, 50 jumps from anywhere, it took me 3 jumps and 15 minutes of scanning to be back in highsec. main issue (imo) continues to be the fact that risk/reward of highsec makes no sense. fix that and you fix lots of issues with this game. good luck fixing it without a massive outcry from highsec bears tho."
"it sounds like you answered the question for yourself. 0.0 alliances might make more than you do, but their fixed and variable costs are significantly higher than yours. in the end, they aren't sitting on a giant pile of cash because it just gets fed into keeping the alliance running."
"totally not emptyquoting."
"i'm confused. where is this scandal? i read to page 22 so far...i did get the impression that double dee = aurora148 though."
"not the mention the additional 32 pages of support in the \"future ideas and discussions\" forum here ."
"omg not page 2 again"
"no to micro-transactions entirelyi'd sooner the monthly sub went up than that"
"yes, as, i think i wrote before, higher subscription fee is far better than any microtransactions.because higher cost of subscription not spoil the current game world.and any microtransactions will cast a shadow on this universe. so it's will be just another mmo that you spend time, money, and then sell your account and forget all of this.i think that's why this game still alive and why there is so much players which plays 5 and more years.i'm here because of this too. actually, i'm not playing games very much, especially any online rpg, fps - it's simply boring and obvious to me. but i still play eve, and it's will be... no, it's arleady, very dissapointing that we have such topics there with plex remaping and this. it's feels like soon we loose this atmosphere that makes eve so \"eve\". and it's will be just a moment in memories, like from other very old great games or movies... it's still be alive, and maybe even more proffitable for ccp, but i think it's will be not a game which can \"lock\" imagination beyond the game. just another waste of time for peoples that have to many of is.sorry about this wall of text, trying to write some complicated thing. in short, if something of this, including remap for plex will be implemented, i will loose a last reason to be interested in this game..."
"actually, this exact thread was used in ccp's recent internal kickoff presentation with a big \"this thread delivers\" stamp on it :d"
"supported!"
"thumbs up"
"supported!"
"4 optional patches to get an update run really is a poor thing.and there still is much to do, dualaccounting e.g. is now unstable, has been working very well before the patch.\"excelence\" in quality would also decrease the amount of bug reports that are filed and the time it needs to react on them. i filed a bug report on oct 1st, it's not even filtered yet."
"support, why did they change it anyway?"
"relax. they saying that it's will be changed, and other effects too..."
"signed"
"useless bump on a sticky thread (grin).just updated the list to include the latest progress, including a bonus item.bonus: add faction, deadspace and officer icons (csm)please let me know if you see \"completed\" items appear on sisi."
"says it all. i agree with the tl;dr, but i'm not so sure i am a fan of the specific bonus changes. when the keres was announced, i was *so excited* to be able to fly a frigate damping platform that was worth a damn - finally something to replace my damping helios! but it isn't - because no damping platform was worth a damn by the time the keres hit the market.blah. the idea of eafs gets me all super excited and happy... but the execution makes me roll my eyes.-lianged: i support this. and you should too!"
"suported too...but i dont thing this will happend soone..."
"i support it even if 80% of all my assets are trapped in 0.0 station i dont have access to at the moment :pwill bring indeed many new gameplay but -yes a ship instead of a module, would make a worthy new class of ship (not easy to create one now) and some time sink for new skill(s) to train \"station destroyer lvl5 skill completed\" ^^-full station removal with all content = no (and fortunatly people who want that dont work for the game industry...)-should be possible to rebuild outposti suggest you to submit it for the next csm that will happen the 23/10 as for now nothing is scheduled"
"for everything that can be created in game, no matter what it is, there has to be a way to remove, destroy, consume or demolish it. ships, modules, titans, stations,... doesn't matter. all things that players can create needs a method of removal, because otherwise it will be spammed everywhere. stations took a while to become irritatingly normal in zerosec and it may even be a bit longer before the number of outposts starts reminding of highsec stations, but unless a method to get rid of them is introduced, it will happen because it has to happen.i'd not go for any weird station destroyer modules or ships, though. look at the things. they are small outposts. those things are not battle fortresses (which would be cool to have) layered in shells of rock, shields and armor plates. they are just huge buildings. once you have full access to a building, taking it apart is a simple matter of whether or not you want to do it.in eve, the method to strip apart immobile, unshielded, defenceless objects are mining lasers and salvagers.so the logical choice would be to give two options to get the dismantling process started.1. controlled deconstruction. just starts a timer of about 1 week and if the station has not changed hands again by that time, it is dismantled and turns into a station wreck resembling the skeletal structure of what it has once been and two containers of which one contains a take-only hangar with everyone's stuff inside (where you can only access your own stuff ofc) and another take-only can that includes a portion of the stuff that was invested into building the outpost in the first place.2. scuttle. to do that, fly in a big load of explosives, which thanks to pi already exist, wire the station of demolition and start a 1 day timer. after that -> *boom*. outpost is turned into a wreck with the aforementioned containers. the second one being empty. in turn for not returning any building material, the station wreck can be salvaged with capital salvagers (like normal salvagers, only on carriers, but could work with regular salvagers too), which produce a steady supply of metal scraps (which nobody loves, but they can be refined into tritanium at least) and a little bit of actual salvage (armor plates, tritanium bars, some circuit and capacitor stuff,...). 4-5 carriers should take a few hours to pull out all available metal scraps and salvage. skeletal structure of the station remains.in both cases, anyone with control of the system could simply rebuild the station if he wants to, using the station wreck as an already existing outpost construction platform. just put the materials needed to build the outpost in the material can and rebuild it as if you'd build a new one.with the ability to destroy outposts and gain something from doing it at the same time, there is motivation for many entities in eve to actually do so."
"nice, i like this idea."
"sounds like a good idea"
"not supported.the omen has a damage bonus becouse its not meant to have these advanced fittings; boosting it would make it unbalanced and hurt new players by taking away an oppertunity to struggle with the fittings for it, and thus learn more about them and become better players with a better understanding of fitting mechanics.this is eve. not everything should be easy, and without challenges the game is no fun. dont deprive new players of this oppertunity and fun just so you can have a higher dps and cheaper suicide gank ship to commit insurance frued in in empire."
"unlike the thorax, rupture, vexor and stabber. they fit fine with a dmg bonus at low skill and better at high skill. that is with full a full tank and dmg mods.it can't be fit with armor properly by high skill players let alone low skill players, and a good sheild fit requires a ton of fitting skills. by then you can move on to the far superior harb.what mechanics, no matter what you train this ship is a nightmare to fit out and fly.lasers and tank on a suicide ship, do you even know how to gank people? and as for insurence fraud i see you missed tyrannis entirely."
"you can't even fit 5 heavy pulse lasers on it with all at v (before any other mods). is this meant to be a damage ship or not?!"
"suicide ganking is still insurance fraud - you're claiming insurance for the loss of a ship that was blown up by concord because you broke the rules the omen is an awesome cruiser just the way it is - the omen navy issue even more so. i have my r&d alts flying them to help me in missions just because the omen is that awesome. no ammo reload delays, no delay in switching between ammo types, a couple of drones to keep you company - what more can a cruiser pilot ask for?you just have to pick carefully between gank or tank."
"again suicide laser boats? also it isn't really fruad they know who blew it up and they still pay you. blame game mechanics for your wrongness.congrats you can afford 100mil to use the only good tech 1 non pirate faction laser boat, head to a 1.0 system and laugh about it. oh good you can mission in it, there is a huge difference between a pvp armor fit and a pve fit, it is great that it can pve but as there only dmg bonused laser boat, lets not leave pvp in the cold.being able to pvp fit it with medium skill for a start, let alone fitting it with max skill.unlike any other cruiser... gotcha."
"yes omen powergrid and cpu cripple it. its however not the end of the world because the faction, t2 and t3 alternatives are much much better... fixing the omen would be nice but would not bring much to eve unlike other things more important to fix.@op while you're on a crusade to boosting t1 cruiser, try fitting 5x 250mm rails on a moa and see where that leaves you..."
"last time i fit an omen i had no problems.might wanna show comparable fits that work on other t1 cruisers and not omen.also you keep talking about new people and zero skills fit and then complain that t2 don't fit.this needs a lot more work. for now, i'm not convinced."
"lets compare some omen fits[omen, high-grade t2 guns]reactor control unit iico-processor iiheat sink iiheat sink iiheat sink ii10mn microwarpdrive iifaint warp disruptor i'langour' drive disruptor iheavy pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mmedium ancillary current router imedium ancillary current router imedium semiconductor memory cell ihobgoblin ii x3517 dps (586 overheat) (458 while no drones) ehp 6.8k[omen, low-grade t2 guns]heat sink iiheat sink iiheat sink ii800mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ico-processor ii10mn microwarpdrive iifaint warp disruptor ifleeting propulsion inhibitor ifocused medium pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mfocused medium pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency mmedium ancillary current router imedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump ihobgoblin ii x3455 dps (515 overheat) (396 no drones) ehp 12.9kas we can see, first fit fields more dps and it can run the modules for more time but it has 50% less ehp. the 2nd fit has double the ehp of the first one while doing slighter lower dps.i really cant see why omen needs to be fitted with high-grade guns.its true that rupture does more dps while having somewhat same ehp (9-10k) but all factions must shine somewhere"
"those are terrible omen fits, and we shouldn't compare the omen to the rupture as they are different tier cruisers (tier system sucks). compare it too the caracal, stabber and vexor as they are the other 'damage' tier 2 cruisers.that being said i support this change, could also do with something similar happening for the caracal so that can fit hams or heavies with a tech 2 fit without loads of fitting mods."
"you contradict yourself, if you don't agree with the way tier system works, then you don't use it,then you do compare it with all cruisers. personally i think it does suck, and it should be compared to 2nd best ship for each race. and it is a bit lacking. i will do more testing before supporting this."
"i think you will find the point i was making was that comparing the tier 2 cruiser with a tier 3 cruiser is never going to balance, then the part in the brackets was just making the point that i think the tier system sucks. that isn't a contradiction that's two separate points. there is no point in comparing the rupture and the omen whilst the tier system is still in place. once ccp wakes up and gets rid of that then the omen should be balanced against the rupture, moa and thorax as they are all the races gun cruisers, but as its still there it should be balanced against the stabber, vexor and caracal as the combat tier 2 cruisers (as much as that sucks).edit. cleared up the rambling effect to this post (mostly)"
"this is a max skill fit with 3 fitting mods to throw it all together the standard max skill rupture fit pushes 24000ehp, the vexor 22000ehp and the speed tanking lse stabber 18000ehp, and don't need fitting mods at any skill level unlike your fits that need both rig and low slots for fitting mods. why don't you reset those skills to engineering 4, electronics 4 and weapons upgrades 4 and see how a tech 1 newbe feels about those fits, compared to the well used vexor stabber and caracal fit.i agree fully from a combat stand point, as long as the teir system is still aroundrupture >>>>>> omeneven after a fitting friendly omen the rupture will still be king of the hill till blaster, rail and maller changes. the point is it can be fit easily and as a similar turret boat and it can be used by lower skill players.but the rupture on any other level is entirely unfare.to your final point i agree in spades to the caracal but want the omen done first. the blaster moa picks up the slack for now."
"true blaster moa is at least a decent gun cruiser, i want the omen to be able to at least fit the plate and guns with a mwd without need a powergrid rig. would mean that i can bring them out on cruiser roams.if eft ehp is anything to go by the 800+fmp fitted omen gets just shy of 400dps and 22k ehp so its not too bad on that front but thats with a powergrid rig and having to use nano platings rather than eanms.i would prefer the tier system removed and the cruisers balanced on roles. rupture-thorax-moa-omen as gun cruisers maller-stabber-caracal-vexor as support cruiser (anti-tackle, heavy tackle sort of roles)"
"tier system is non-****tional. you are claiming that a higher tier cruiser is always going to be better, and yet vexor is (aguably)the best cruiser around, and it is tier 3. even if you dispute the fact that it is the best cruiser around (which you are rightfull to do) it is at least no worse then thorax, which is a tier two cruiser. and it's not like maller is good either. so yes, amarr cruisers are lacking a bit."
"you have the gallente cruisers the wrong way around the vexor is tier 2 as it requires lvl 2 cruiser where as the thorax is tier 3, and i never said the vexor was a bad cruiser, i said the tier system is ****ed and thats why comparing the omen to the rupture is going to be silly as it is like comparing the stabber to the rupture. although i hate it the tier 2 were meant to be worse in fitting that the tier 3, the problem here is that the omen is worse fitting than all the other tier 2 cruisers as well.also unless you noticed i have supported this, and never said the amarr cruisers were good, the only one that is good is the arby"
"supported, omen needs a little love."
"omen needs love and the tier system needs to get removed ~o~"
"not supported.if you want to be inneficient by studying them, your decission."
"even that i made those skills, i think that they should be taken away and basic levels of attributes should be risen(the ones that cannot be remapped).then maybe good solution would be to just remove advanced learning skills and leave only basic ones.why should they be removed? because when you start game, and everyone tells you to train learning skills, and not to start playing is really annoying.many people will think why they should play game in which you need to spend first few days just to train learning skills?game should be fun, not hard work, and i don't think many people thinks that doing nothing just to profit in future is fun.sure it is part of this game, but it is not really funny to do.but if removed, those skill points should be given back in quicker training speed for currentsp+cutlearningsp(for ppl still under 1.6mln sp just cut their sp by learning skills cut, and change bonus boost to 100%*((learningsp/1.6mln)+1) so they will reach 1.6mln sp in same time) like now it is 1.6mln 100% boost. ofcourse there can be some bonuses for speed just for the thinking of just loosing those learning times in past, but it was like it was and if needs changes, let it change(and be happy you can just play and not learning :p)so basically: remove learning, make stats better and extend bonus boost"
"just neural remap, idk. if more things including just cosmetics get pay item only i can see a problem. wis is clearly heading in that direction -> buy clothing for plex. witch i find annoying but could live with it if they somehow make it a bit more challenging, like mentioned clothing is available threw the loyalty-point store and you need lp + plex to redeem. i would clearly dislike things like gambling tables to be plex items, as i think that would have a noticeable impact (likely regarding plex price xd making them tables dam expensive and maybe cosing many to not be able to afford plex for free game time)"
"so... no blue posts here, and no mentions in dev blogs so far..."
"i like the idea, as it brings a more sci-fi feel to the 'veins' mining idea. for the ice, i came up with a separate idea which would help the ice miners. you can find this idea listed here (it's a pdf, so it's not visible in the igb).given the implementation of both of these, i think mining would actually become fun to do, and maybe even more profitable. supported 1000 times over."
"can someone weld a snowplow to the front of my exhumer to push all the macro's out of the way?in all seriousness i'd like to see mining become more interactive, more profitable, an actual career path to follow. however before any changes to mining are done i think something has to be done with macrominers. they are a disease.i haven't commented on the t3 exhumer idea. that idea sounds like a good one as well but if put into place i'm sure macro's will exploit that as well.in the systems i mine in i see macro's all over. they log in and strip belts 23/7. petitions don't seem to work and gank squads are only an inconvenience sometimes just making them go somewhere else. if your idea could be implemented to beat macro software i'd be all for it."
"i like the big asteroids mega sized asteroid belt idea. i think mining needs some variation. at the moment its activate lasers, wait between 45 and 180 seconds and repeat. i think this as an advanced mining practice would be good as well as break up the bordom factor of doing mining. i don't think this idea should replace all mining however. i just cant see mr joenoob having the patience to do all this to make such a little amount of isk. (dont forget mining is one of the easiest ways to make money when your a noob)having some 35-50km radius asteroids in amongst standard asteroids would give new people interested in mining something to aim for. remember when you saw people in battleships and you had just gotten into your first cruiser? same kinda thing, end game for miners atm is the hulk with either a rorqual or orca in support. something like a semi-capital ship with 1 mega laser to punch a hole through into the good components of the asteroid would be awesome. but you would have someone do a scan before hand to give you the best yield. there isnt enough actual team work involved in mining. if that was addressed somehow in your idea i would support it."
"this. i don't care if this hat is 99 cents, and we aren't getting microtransactions for things that matter. \"baaaaw plex for remap\"... i don't count it because i can pay for it with ingame currency, making actually kinda cool. \"baaaw rich players have an advantage now!\"... ever heard of deadspace or officer modules?anyway, op's a ******, nothing else really. also 10 mil against it being cromo, the grammar doesn't fit.edit: of course, you're going to disagree with me about this, but until ccp requires i pay ~actual money~ for ingame things, and i can only pay with actual money, i'm not gonna be ****ed."
"awesome idea! we should also make people that live in empire pay an extra $9.99 a month for \"concord protection fees\" and \"high-sec licensing fees\". you should also have to pay 50 cents for each mission you run to \"grease the wheels\" so-to-speak of those pesky agents. oh lets not forget the $7.99 hulk fee!"
"the feedback is much appreciated. i suppose i need to remind the trolls that this thread is not for them. so kindly gtfo and go back to caod."
"well, since your whine thread isn't where its supposed to be either..."
"semi-finalists are posted, and it's an absolute disaster. we have near-unanimous agreement (both in the deviantart comments and on the eve forums) that the judges are utterly incompetent, the vast majority of the semi-finalists are either terrible and/or have nothing to do with eve, and many excellent (and community-favored) submissions were ignored.unfortunately, there is one simple cause for this: deviantart sucks.so, ccp should do three things:1) re-judge the entire contest. throw out the opinions of the deviantart judges, and have judges from ccp select a new set of 15 semi-finalists as well as the three winners (out of the ccp-chosen 15).2) never have anything to do with deviantart again, preferably with a public statement of this fact. the community is not amused, take the hint.3) run the contest again, on a more respectable cg art site (and allow re-entry of ships from the current contest). this is win/win, people who got screwed by deviantart get a second chance, and we all get to see a much higher level of quality.edit:new addition from devaintart's \"apology\": they have now openly admitted that \"fitting into the existing eve universe\" was not a priority in selecting the finalists, and insulted the eve community in the process.edit:the judging was not anonymous:besides the obvious question of how this influences the legitimacy of the judging process, it raises the very serious question of why was deviantart hosting a contest that they were not prepared to run?"
"i fully agree"
"i could really rant, but the bottom line is the site that hosted this contest is not worth me speaking of."
"what the **** was deviantart thinking. ccp, never ever use them again."
"well i had a joke in the other thread, but no disrespect to anyone who submitted work to this contest, semi finalist or not. however there were some odd choices there i felt."
"i fully agree and have already filed a petition to that effect."
"cross-posting from eve general:ccp: i beg of you, take a look at the most popular entries: ask yourself how they could choose this over this????? this one was extremely popular, and it didn't even get mentioned.... minnie pilots were going nuts over this.or this (a flying frisbee????) over this? (also extremely popular wth gallente fans)or this (a jovian ship, that we can't even use, made the semi-finals????) over this??? this one was almost as popular as the tornado above by caldari pilots.or this (honestly, wtf?) over this??? (amarr pilots were going nuts over this)what the hell happened there? of those finalists, maybe one (barely) or two (the only decent eve-like semi-finalist) fit into the eve universe, but only barely. i mean, what the hell is this or this?????this crap is an insult to eve."
"maybe one of those entries deserved to be a semi-finalist, at most."
"disgusted.was noone at da asked to actually play the game, before judging...???edit: +1"
"damned if they do, damned if they don't.i'm quite disappointed. there were some seriously awesome designs, and, i thought, even if i don't win, we'll get quality visuals. it just didn't happen. i understand that not everyone can be pleased, but deviantart judges just scored so low."
"same here"
"agreed. we need to draw ccp's attention to this, as there's still time to re-judge all the entries. come on ccp, show us that you care! screw any contract you have with da and judge the entries yourselves. we won't mind if it takes a year or more to finally see a \"good\" ship in game."
"i can not seriously f**king believe it.i have been following the ship design contest almost from the start, and seen the skill and dedication that some guys have put through this competition and you go and select a load of sh*t?i mean, how on earth does the la battlesh*te get in, but the tornado does not?fully agree with op."
"i fully support this"
"supported for an eternity. deviantart totally held the idiot ball when choosing."
"**** devfailant art, there was so many better ships out there ffs. that stratholm caldari bs was perfect, just perfect. this contest is crap. the only thing i could see remotely winning is that little minmatar ship because ccp wouldn't even have to do anything to it. it's like the contest was rigged not to pick the best looking, but the easiest for ccp to manage. complete. crap."
"i fully support this."
"it's an absolute disaster. deviantart sucks."
"its a shame they run their contest on deviantart which people not at all in any way related to eve can post their stuff hoping to steal the prices from those who deserve it"
"naru-kami, cyruk velam, the gatekeeper deserve to be semi-finalists.a few others were good, but not solid shoe-ins considering other designs that were overlooked.and what ****ing ****es me off...half are borderline copyright infringement (of pre-existing eve ships) and one is digital spit in the face of everyone who worked hard to create a solid entry for this contest."
"i don't see how ccp can suddenly just change the rules in the middle of the competition, so let them choose the winners from the finalists like the rules state. we also had loads of great contestants, so i see the rules being the bigger issue than letting da host it. the process of deciding winners was poor, not the designs. so i'll not support points 1 or 2.i'm in full agreement though, that ccp shouldn't let those good designs slip through their fingers. either do another competition with different selection process or pick extra designs form the contestants that didn't make it to the finals. there were some true gems there and they actually looked like eve ships."
"i support a re judging by ccp themselves. theirs is an opinion i atleast trust. most of the ships that were selected for semi-finalist do not even look like eve ships. i would atleast expect the judges to select something that would fit within the universe.i worked hard to make my own submission follow the design specs that you often find in caldari ships for instance. i never expected to be selected as a semi-finalist, but atleast with ccp's own textures and modellers it would atleast look like it was designed by the caldari.i truly hope ccp will do the right thing and judge the contest themselves."
"fully agree"
"definitely disappointed.supporting this."
"pretty much sums up my sentiments."
"agreed.it looks like the \"judges\" were lazy, and picked only entries submitted near the end of the contest...(this is the only entry from september)"
"this is one of main reasons i will support this: lolwat ?theres some decent choices, cause of innovative idea's but a few poor ones too. no disrespect to artists. also i really felt this one needed to be in the finals, it even offers other race counterpart idea's: tornadoedit: removed vote, reason on page 5"
"right right... 3000~ to choose from that is not an easy task but doable"
"devians don't know the gamethey don't nknow what theyare judgingif you whant anything done right, do it yourself."
"agreed..."
"signed, it seems like such a shame to throw away most of the good entries and accept utter ****edit: forgot to thumb"
"how they ignored the tornado, which in just about everyone's estimation was a cut above the rest is beyond me."
"first time i've ever posted in the assembly hall, that's how strongly i feel about this. /signed"
"agree with everyone.this contest went from promising to absolute mayhem. all because deviantart chose the finalists.ccp owns the game so they can very easily just ignore the choices deviantart staff made and then create their own top 15.and i agree with everyone else in saying that the tornado ("
"true 3000 is a lot, but there was a week for judging, and it only takes a second to see if a ship is serious or not. i mean, when you end up with a finalist called the \"long ass battlecruiser\", it shows they don't care that much and hardly put any effort into it..."
"this contest is more of a discrace than my avatar, if that was even possible."
"it cracks me up... someone commenting how similar to an actual hand-drawn work it appears... do they need another wacom tablet? nope; my hand-drawing ass needs a wacom tablet!...so then i can also stop hand-drawing and start... creating digital content that appears...hand-drawn...? :p"
"that's exactly what devious *beep* want - most of the semifinalists are utterly *beep* pointing to few decent designs. all this stuff needs re-judging."
"da trolled us, lol."
"first time ever posting in the assembly hall. i followed the contest almost daily and was really excited to see so many teriffic designs being submitted for consideration.frankly i'm disgusted by the lack of professionalism demonstrated by the deviantart judges in picking such lackluster and unpopular entries for the finalists.the popular submissions were popular for a reason, i like many others were genuinely excited over the possibility of playing them ingame. i hope ccp will listen to the player base and remedy this situation asap."
"for the love of god ccp, rejudge the semi-finalists. we don't need space donuts and boxes, there are a huge number of good choices in this contest."
"fyi i've posted a more \"formal\" petition for the community to officially sign on to over here in the general discussion section"
"same situation for me mates. i didnt even read this section of the forums until now. this contest needs re-judged immediately and by non-lazy, intelligent, real eve players."
"if they are honest, even some of the ones who were selected must be amazed at the ones that have been left out.i feel sorry for those that spent hours designing something when it basically looks as though the 15 were selected by drawing random lots from a hat."
"those finalists are a total fiasco. signed."
"i looked at lots of entries during the contest, and with all the nice things i saw, i was wondering how could make only 1 winner, as tons of the entries are wonderfull.but these judges... these semi-finalists... no seriously, there's limit to ****ty tastes. there's 2-3 intersting, the rest is garbage.at this point having took random entries as winner may have find better results, that's really ridiculous."
"semi-finalist selection is true disaster :("
"signed.total travesty.if you are a member of deviantart, look below the images of the selected submissions and click the link \"reject\".or sign up a bunch of alt accounts."
"i support a complete rejudging from the ccp staff. the majority of the finalist represent nothing \"...suitable for inclusion in eve online...\" as stated in the rules."
"i am adding my voice to the mob, da dropped the ball on this, they might have found it cute or funny in their choices but in doing so they left out far better designs that not only fit eve but look good while doing it.i hope that ccp will step in and do the right thing and pick their own designs or heck better still give the players of eve a chance to vote on a ship since they have a vested interest in game unlike the untrained monkeys at da.edit for thumb.."
"from some awesome entries they choose this? oh my..."
"please ccp, choose your own top 15!!!!!"
"full agree!"
"it makes me sad when i see the great submissions that didn't make it."
"the semifinalist selection is indeed a bit ... odd."
"agreed. the choices they made are absolutely abysmal, most don't even kind of fly under eve design canon."
"to say the least."
"this contest has to be a sham. there is no excuse for some of the choices, and some of the exclusions. no tornado? wtf?"
"wtb: better judges."
"yepeach one is fail"
"saying 'yes' to la-battlecruiser is not normal.but on da it is!"
"seriusly, thats the worst ****ing jugdement ever."
"absolutely supported!how the hell was this overlooked?tornado"
"the basic estimation that the da judges don't eve's best interests at heart it probably resounding loudly here. part of the contest rules said that \"creative presentation of the task\" was a criteria for judging the semi-finalists. unfortunately this leads to da choosing more \"artistic\" entries than worthwhile ones, things that look interesting, but hardly a single eve player would give a damn about flying. out of the 3000 some entries, the semi-finalists should be each and every a ship that hordes of players would be chomping on the bit to get their hands on, and further, ships that the majority of players could actually fly (this seemed obvious from the under-1000 meters requirement, so that no one would be making anything bigger than a battleship.) sure the jove ship looks fantastic, but a contest like this is a reason for the players to get excited about something new to play with, not something to sit in the corner and gather just as much dust as had it not been chosen to begin with. to say nothing of **** like this or this, which is designed around a concept that would be impossible to implement in the game. that's pretty basic logic, to not include winning designs that are not purpose designed for their media.all-in-all a failure, i'm glad to see both the eve community and da artists are furious about this."
"when i checked the semi finalists i didnt expect mine to be with them, but some of my favs.the moment i saw them i honestly didnt know what to say, it even broke my worst case scenario."
"i usually stay away from the forums... but these results were a disaster. i mean, seriously? the la-battlecruiser? most of the 15 ships that \"made the cut\" don't belong to the eve universe. the judging should be done by ccp staff. da failed very hard on this one. :/"
"complete agreement"
"agreed, the judges choices for the semi-finalists were rather... poorly chosen."
"supported"
"as an impartial observer, who did not have a submission in the contest to be passed over by these crap semi-finalists, i whole-heartedly agree."
"signed. there were much more awesome ships."
"was severely underwhelmed by the semi-finalist designs.supported."
"yeah, alot of those semi-finalists don't seem very eveesque. and some obviously superior designs didn't make it in. should be rejudged."
"supported."
"i'm surprised we didn't see the box labeled spaceship in the finalists given the lineup that was chosen."
"again agree, i dont watch much the forum too.i want to state how we(dont think it's just me), people of eve who made entry feel:we spend our time making this ships instead of playing(well at least, not hardcore pvp action:p). while we where making our work we saw some wonderfull job and we keep doing ours, knowing we had to lose to those, well fitted for eve, ships.then we saw the finalist and we knew our ship where better than many of those and we fall from the sky, how that could happen with such other entry?!?!i hope i'm not too much repetitive but damn i have a devil for every hair i have in my head(well figuratively speaking, i'm bold -.-)."
"signed.there are 4 ships in the top 15 that are even close to looking like something that might make it into the game. the rest are crap. no offence to the artists, you did well (except the la failcruiser).also- first time in assembly hall."
"supported"
"signed.hell, this is my first time in assembly hall. that's about how strongly i feel about this."
"**** deviantart, **** its judges, and **** the semifinalists - every single one is topped in style, creativity, and technical workmanship by stuff that got passed over. ccp should have asked anyone interested to submit designs, created a gallery website, and included feedback in the judging.i agree with the op entirely, though i would add that we should also orbitally ****ing bombard deviantart. it's the only way.edit: i'm surprised some of the lol entries didn't get in, with judging like this."
"the deviantart judges needs to be fired. then whoever picked them needs to be fired. they need to take a good look at what actually exists in eve, and make quite a paradigm shift. signed."
"winners when compared to some of the others that were submitted are not on the same level or best express eve ship themes.ccp should intervene in the best interest of the game"
"the la battlecruiser voted in and the tornado not getting into finalist is my main reason voting , it shows something went wrong, but alot of the other entrys where pretty neat and nice concepts. props to the artists.i'd like to see syndicate, soe, ammatar, intaki, & thukker tribe, the society, faction ships added in one day, few of these might make the cut. like the japanese styled gallente one as a intaki ship. etc."
"i support this 100%"
"but to pick that one would require knowing what hard points are. can't have that, can we?"
"i believe i express the sentiment below that many players felt when reading the description of the ships, in particular the ones like the bes, where the artist who created it clearly has never played eve, or, if they have, they're an idiot. also, props to whatever genius threw some rust and coca-cola signs on an iteron for getting to the semi finals.what the duck is this spit"
"what this guy said."
"agree"
"supported and ...if you have a deviant art account, don't forget to go to the semifinalists page and click the \"reject\" button under the pile of images."
"**** you da"
"that there will be people upset with the semis was for sure. be it cos their entry wasn't taken, be it cos a ship they fell in love with hasent ben taken, or be it that one or two semi-finalists aren't as good as cud have been.but this is a quite a mess. the greatest proportion of those semi-finalists aren't insertable at all and don't match the rules in more then just tiny issues.ok, ccp can choose the top 3 out of them and the prize winners wouldn't win completely undeserved, but 15! semi-finalists and they managed to pick more undeserving entry's then if they had a rolled deice."
"disgusting."
"i fully support this."
"here is what will happen: ccp will ignore the plea, they will pick the nr 1-2-3 from the reasonable to good entries out of the 15 (which will probo be the cyruk velam, nari-kamu, tsunami, gatekeeper or vision). will make the ship, implement it, and all will be forgotten about in a few months.there will be no re-judging. not now not ever, because they would have to come back on their own rules, not to mention you have to tell some semi-finalists they are not in the 15 afterall. not going to happen. as much as i'm disappointed with (most)of the last 15. just do like bodycount does."
"no, just pick 15 more, then select the winners from all 30. that is $750 more in prizes, but that is a damn cheap marketing campaign for that price."
"signed. the contest finalists for the most part did not adhere to the existing styles of eve, nor were original enough to be suitable finalists. da judging has failed and want the entries to be judged properly by ccp itself."
"ok, then if we all feel the same way on this sod the choices made alrdy lets vote, you make eve not ccp folks.the tsunami gets my vote for sure. peace n love to u and urs folks , and pain to ya clones"
"/signed"
"i haven't posted in the assembly hall at all before; i haven't even posted much on the forums themselves... but the results of this contest are, as said before, underwhelming. a few of them fit, but the rest should not have won over most of the other submissions (yeah, i'm looking at you, la battlecruiser! )."
"support."
"totally agree, i mean... wow one of them is just what looks like a block of wood drawn on some paper and that somehow got into the top 15? really???"
"deviantart downs syndrome judges trolling ccp c/d?i hope that line drawing ruler thing wins, just so that there's no doubt in anyone's mind that the whole thing is a giant troll."
"agreed"
"100% agreed!edit: official support.slade"
"not a single ship in the semifinals looks anywhere near something that belongs in eve. supported."
"signed"
"support"
"ill support but maybe rather than something with a massive tank that mines, how about a group of 'recon' miners, with t3 indy ganglink ships and t3 mining vessels with cov ops cloaks"
"ill support but maybe rather than something with a massive tank that mines, how about a group of 'recon' miners, with t3 indy ganglink ships and t3 mining vessels with cov ops cloaks.edit. stupid double post"
"hm...wtf? yes, drake need a boost, +1 laucner slot, as on his hull."
"so it \"hits hard\" with its \"modest dps\"? and it \"soaks up damage like a sponge\" whilst not actually being shot at because of its low \"battlefield target priority\"?this must be some kind of crazy schrodinger's drake, a superposition of all possible states. what a load of blather."
"i would love to swap names! i want this name on my main alt. besides, in rl, you can change your name any time you want to try to escape. maybe if you change your name, there is still a way to track the old name to the new name? come up with unique id numbers for each character, like a social insurance number or driver's license number. it'd be pretty easy, it's just a randomly generated number, to each character."
"eldiora, 15!, 10, 14, 28, 20i think all of these propositions would help alot in w-space especially, but i think 15 and 10 are the most pressing issues for w-space inhabitants."
"zedah zoid,5,7,10,14,15,16"
"minver trader 1,5,8,10,15 plus corp bookmarks please"
"arskaff,15,5,28,14,7"
"3, 5, 7, 13, 23please and thanks."
"there are people getting banned and not resciving proper explainations. you hear people get banned cause of false petitons or ccp do mistakes or just reasons.but when they have to use days just to find out why they got banned it screws up ppls game and prologn the time before ccp can rectyfy their wrong doings.i propose ccp should send documentation on why ppl get banned not just a general message about ppl breaking eula"
"it's been boring. and it's been boring because the enemy refused to fight. while that is their right, i think conquer should be easier when the defender doesn't try to fight or delay you.tl;dr what i propose is a mechanics that makes conquering a system harder than it is today, if there is enemy presence. but makes it straightforward if they fail to show up.basically, the idea is to have resistances on every structure from pos to ihub that depend on the owners presence. not really a lot, but some presence.every ship present in space and outside of a pos would add some points to the resistances, up to, for example, 80%. they could stack, so even if you have a thousand ships, nominal maximum resistance would never be reached. at this resistance level structures should have around three times the efective hitpoints that they have today. the base hitpoints (with zero presence) should be in the range of a fith of nowadays efective hitpoints. suggested numbers:capital: +10%bs: +5%cruiser: +3%frigate: +1%to reduce lag this should be checked every x minutes.this way the defender can make life difficult for the attacker even with a fleet of 50 cloaky frigates. the attacker will have the option to chase the enemy fleet to reduce the resistance (work for the support fleet/large fleet battles) or move to another system. or simultaneous attacks. a static/absent defence will no longer be useful.as a consecuence of this mechanics, defending one or to systems will also be easier that it is today, allowing for strongholds (opportunity for small alliances and heroic last stand). at the same time, defending large areas of space and scattered systems will be more difficult than today.it would also add a role for small gang harassing, because you can have several of this gangs reinforcing undefended structures in enemy territory, preparing the ground for the large fleet to come and finish them. even for black ops operations. to compensate for this and avoid spending heaps of time repairing structures all over your dominions, automatic refill of the shields should take place in no more than a few hours after finishing reinforce mode.an alternative to the system would be to do it grid-linked, so we would get intra-system movility and force battle if you want to dend your assets, with the fleets jumping from structure to structure. in this versi<U+FFFD>n, only visible ships outside the pos would count. i dont really like this idea because then there is no benefit to small alliances.finally, i see a problem with big capital fleets jumping from system to system destroying structures before the defender can react. despite the fuel problem that would mean, i think that a counter is needed. something like a 100% resistance for 5 minutes (<U+FFFD>burning strontium?) before damage is done could work.thx for reading."
"i like this"
"so with a few caps, that every corp can get together, you can get it to the max percentage while being invulnerable since they are cloaked."
"ilike the general direction of this,but i think that:we should not conunt cloackiesand i would like more then just resistace increase. a small system.i support the general motion."
"yes, thats correct. but you will better have a few caps on every system you own or the attacking fleet will just go to the nearest empty system. you can then jump there, they will move to a couple of different systems and so on.an even if you are there cloaked, it would only take a fleet a couple of hours to destroy your assets. if your ships simply stay there it only takes more time than now, because you can never get more that 80% resistance.protecting a system will be easy, protecting a hole region will not be. and the main purpose, if you are not there it will fall very quickly."
"the only reason for this (cloackies) is to allow small alliances to make it tough to take their systems, hoping that the big guys will leave them alone because it's not worth the effort. this will probably be true if tens of new settlers come to 0.0i hope that this together with the increased vulnerability of extended dominions will make it easier for them to get into 0.0 without the big ones killing them instantly just for fun.and, what other things are you thinking about?"
"supported.the llente navy ships in particular are terribad.if you wanted a camo effect you could have at least researched something like ww2 dazzle, or something else that has a marginally scifi pedigree (think chris foss)they're embarassing, lazy and unacceptable in a game that prides itself on visuals.fix them, then stop."
"the goal of this proposal is not to provide the ultimate fix. the goal is to compile all mor-or-less valid options to improve hybrid turrets. this propsal, however, only touches on the guns alone. there is a number of issues with ships themselves, ad i will not touch upon those, as they are outside of scope of this proposal. please reply with numbers of improvements that you would like to see implemented, and constructive criticism. generally a combination of these improvements would bring hybrids to a level where they can adequately compete with other guns. this proposal assumes that hybrids are weedy.i did not incude any ideas that make role of hybrids overlap with other weapons. (i.e. increasing range). i want to keep them different, but not inferior. 1) tracking improvement. this mainly goes for blasters, their current range is about half that of autocannons (depends on exact ammunition type), yet they have the same tracking. as the range decreases, tracking requred to hit the target increases exponentally. theirfore i think that tracking of blaster should be improved. 2) more damage- fairly straight-forward. there is an opinion that if blasters have three times shorter range then lasers do, they hould have enough damage to compesate this disadvantage, and currently they do not. 3) faster reload times- this would put hybrids in a position where they have advantage over a ship with projectiles, because they can switch ammunition quickly according to what they need. i am not talcking about instantaneous switching like laser have, but replacing 10 seconds with 5 seconds let's say. 4) smaller ammunition size - since hybrid turrets have to provide energy to the projectile, and that energy is taken from the ship's energy systems, and not stored chemically in the projectile, the ammunition should be smaller in size when compared to that of projectiles. as velosity of hybrid-fired projectiles is significantly greater that that of any artillery shells, the projectiles are smaller. the calliber size is smaller- e.g. 425mm against 1400mm for artillery shells. the size of hybrid ammunition should be significantly reduced. 5) less capacitor usage - straight forward6) annihilative damage - this could be an alternative to damage buff. part of he damage would come in a separate damage type- annihilative. this damage type would ignore resistances of the ship, and deal full damage at all times (assuming that the gun did not miss). only small portion of damage would come in annihilative form, and it would only exist for certain ammunition types: antimatter, javelin, void. void would have the largest portion of annihilative matter. role-play reason: antimatter annihilates any \"normal\" matter, without consideration for weather it is glass or tungsten carbide. make your choices."
"you forgot about the alpha on a railguns, and the fact that middle range ammo is almost useless. ammo is the main issue in both - blasters and railguns groups. the best solution i see is to decrease rof with the range instead of damage mod. that will make rails more usefull both at close and long range, and blasters alpha can be limited on a close range."
"alright, i can add alpha, but i am really against cuttingrange, because their range only exceeds that of lasers by a couple kilometers. if you cut that, you get a weapon tat does less dps, less alpha and worse tracking, and would ultimately make them obsolete. the only thing that saves rails at this point, is their insane range."
"it is super easy to fix railguns. right now now they have almost same damage as artillery, and artillery clearly wins due to wtf volley, damage selection and no cap usage, while rails eat as much cap as 10% cap usage bonused lasersjust decrease railgun rof and give it more damage. their dps should be between beam and artilleryafter this simple fix all long range guns will be balanced. lasers most damage/tracking, railguns best range/average tracking/average dps/average alpha, projectiles best volley/damage selectin/still nice dps/no cap usageabout blasters i'm not sure really they clearly need some love, but it's so easy to break things in eve.."
"quit trying to balance guns by adding more damage. ffs, i'm so tired of this argument. every boost to a gun's damage affect so much more in this game, including the need for hp rebalance.i still completely hate the rebalance to projectiles b/c they're so ****ing overpowered now. sadly, nobody realizes this b/c the zealot army and the drake blobs are winning eve atm."
"i'm fine with the damage boost, eve is tediously overtanked as it is.but the problem isn't blaster damage, it's that blaster ships are too slow and heavy to make it into range and just get kited by anything with a shield tank. the only people that would benefit from a flat dps boost to blasters would be empire station campers."
"hey guys, i support a re-balance to hybrids but not this way. im just spit-balling here but what if the gallente race and minmatar race just switched play styles... minmatar would get close range wtf damage that would compliment their speed, they would keep their shield (mostly) tanks however. and gallente would get arty's and auto cannons to allow them to actually compete with the rest of eve. i fit autocannons on my myrm and ishtar now anyway... it would be a big overhaul but aside from completely re-designing hybrids it's the only thing i could see that would make most people happy. i would love to have a vaga with neutrons wouldnt you?"
"since the sole purpose of guns is to deal damage, your argument is equivalent to:\"quit trying to balance anything by making it more useful\"what do yo mean \"not this way\", i offered you six options and you don't like any of them? and switching play stiles would actually work i think. but would be too big of a change."
"1) tracking is good, but doesnt solve the issue. the last time blasters were good was before the web nerf. even after that, their only advantage was \"atleast we arent projectiles!\" if the goal is to compensate for targeted ships beating tracking at blaster optimal, then yes this will work. it wont, however, solve the \"getting in range\" portion of the issue (that webs also fixed).2) more damage on the weapon system with the most damage? i dont think anyone would scoff at having more damage, the problem is the application thereof. more damage would help compensate for falloff, but the goal in the end is to get to optimal anyway. this doesnt fix the problem3) faster reload times aren't terribly useful because by the time you need to reload the battle is over (either you've died or they have). ive almost never run out of ammo mid-fight with a blaster/rail ship so its sorta a moot issue. now, if instead this is a fix to the range issue (i.e. being able to quickly swap from long range to shorter range ammo as you get closer), that'd work; but you'd still need the insta-swap of lasers to be efficient.4) smaller ammo is what the projectile problem was a few years back. acs had such a high refire rate that you needed to carry an ton of ammo for drawn out battles. again, there isnt that much of a problem of running out of ammo in a fight, and you can already carry a sizeable amount, so this isnt a good fix either.5) less capacitor usage is nice, but its not as useful when the typical blaster ship has boosters and no active tank. the natural passive recharge (with max skills) more than covers your cap usage, unlike with laser ships.6) annihilative damage, while sexy sounding, kinda goes against the whole eve concept. this also harks back to the \"more damage!\" issue, which also wont solve the problem.personally, i had thought that adding a web effect to blasters would be kinda useful. it could help counter enemy movement and make up for the lack of the 90% webs the ships used to enjoy. a more serious suggestion would be to make them the alpha-kings of close range fighting. boost their damage and drop their rof so they can get crazy massive single-hits. doesn't help with the killmail whoring, but you can bring the hurt much more immediately once you do get into range (and hopefully before you die)---------------------------------------so what are the serious deficiencies of blaster ships? range and tracking? why not fix the ships (as suggested above)? armor buffer is inversely perportional to a ship's ability to maneuver and maintain combat range. boosting energized regenerative plating might be a solution, but then you'd have armor ships zooming around with (relatively) low signatures and completely eliminate shields from pvp. you can boost the agility of blaster ships, but that doesnt help with ships that can still out-shoot you while you cover the distance and you begin to encroach on minmatar territory.i think the real problem is that of bonuses. ships that are blaster ships have have an active tank bonus (brutix, hyperion, astarte) or can have a falloff bonus (deimos, catalyst, atron, incursus, astarte again). currently active tanks are worthless and a falloff bonus on the already-short-falloff blasters doesnt help all that much. i dont know what to suggest for these ships, but certainly some other bonus would be much more useful (sig radius/capacitor of mwds perhaps?)"
"bump"
"i support this fully haveing a fixed point to base your flight off would help in a number of ships (fast and slow)"
"call it galactic north if you need an rp reason for it, and say it's \"towards the center of the cluster\" or some crap. but yes, this would be nice."
"my idea is to see if we can have ccp add an in-game bug report feature. most games already have this type of feature. also, maybe add an in-game option for feedback, the idea is to remove the requirement of logging into the forums to submit things. personally, going through all the hoops to submit a bug has prevented me from doing so. a quick button near the petitioning system would fix that. i would want the feature to be [open help, click button marked \"report bug\", then a window opens that you can directly write into, submit] quick and simple, and maybe something just as simple for feedback."
"i think it is even worse than the current system, so i hijack this topic with someone elses idea (just like you did unless you are quesa). i personally would also make changes to that idea, but i cant be bothered to think too long about that now (for example imo there should be an off switch that allows you to use a system but not start claiming sov in it). aditionally i also see some other problems, but in the end it is just the general direction sov should be going into imo:"
"as if it wasn't insulting enough that you made this proposal look horribly incomplete, you didn't even change the wording from my own proposal being discussed on other forums.plagiarism is bad."
"what are you on about? there is no such thing. nothing like this exist buddy. trust me. you are just simply mad because i released my ideas on the forums before, i don't know what you have in your head, before you could vomit your out here."
"not supporting a chromo effect thread."
"as per the new dev blog, profiles will, after a grace period, default to being public to everyone, this should default to private instead.pros:* noone will have their profiles set to public without them realizingcons:* none ?"
"the public setting means that eve gate will show the same information to the world that it would show to any random trial account anyway. it should be public, and the private setting doesn't make any sense.it doesn't improve your privacy, the only information not available via api directly is bio and employment history, and those could be spidered easily via trial accounts. remember we are talking about publishing \"bio\" and \"employment history\" only, the rest is available easily via other means."
"+1.after few months, realising that everyone can your buddy list is...uncomfortable.edit: typo"
"dude, thats no devblog your linking to...also nothing related to profiles on evegate either.."
"my bad, fixed the link"
"after the trinity patch, the recoil-effects of the turrets where gone.will we get them back?or is it not possible with the \"new\" grafic engine?i allready asked in the eveger forum and they also want it back greetz stennar"
"1.0"
"every device in the game has a counter.guns vs armor/shieldsecm vs eccmdamps vs boostersprobes vs cloaks\"working as intended\"/thread"
"pretty sure they can already fit both...."
"they can fit both, only no space for others drones then left (that is on hell and wyvern iirc). simple solution is leaving two fighters at home and you got enough space. nerf other scs to the same level (or nerf them all further tbh) and you start getting a more reasonable ship. but my megathron also cant switch from large to med to small blasters depending on what it needs, while getting a bonus to all of them. let scs make a choice which drones they want to carry."
"still nothing planned ?"
"we're working on the csm mini summit reports at the moment.i'd expect proposals to appear just before the weekend."
"i'll be bringing up 2 topics at least:booster revamp and wrecking outposts. i'll formally request for them to be put on the agenda when i finish writing their wiki pages."
"nice one for the station wrecking addition"
"how did you lose a dramiel to a badger?"
"lol you read shc"
"i know the best solution for the blaster problem. learn other weapon type. it is common now to fit ac on myrm or ishtar.p.s. 23h 7m left large energy turret v. yeeeehaaa!"
"as i have said earlier in this post the best fix would be to play around with the ammo, not so much the guns. why? well, hybrids are a mix of laser and projectile weapons. however they have all the drawbacks of both and very few advantages.also, turrets are a \"constant\". they have fixed attributes. these attributes are slightly modified by character skill. they are also heavily modified by ship bonuses. however these bonuses are very 'static' and bind ships to certain roles.now, ammo is the variable in the turrets performance. however the current state of hybrid ammo is very unilateral. the only two weapon attributes ammo currently effects are range (with damage) and cap use. projectile ammo gets selectable damage type, range (+ damage) and tracking enhancing ammo. why not use the ammo to create vastly different weapon attributes. for example:one ammo type could effect alpha strike (massive damage but very slow rate of fire).one ammo type could effect tracking (low damage with high tracking)one ammo type could effect optimal and another falloff.along with range and capacitor usage stats there are also the base shield and base armour damage stats. one high damage close range ammo could specialise in very high shield damage with very low armour damage and vice versa.this will make all the \"middle\" ammo types have a purpose too."
"\"should: as a player, i see a difference between the mwd and afterburner icons, so that i can tell the difference.\"it's implemented on sisi. mwd now have a glow around the sprite and they can be easily distinguished."
"delicious keystroke greatness.i can has?"
"saving multiple keep at range distances (that are useful) would be really helpful. more customization!"
"sounds good to me."
"op's idea gets my support"
"sounds pretty cool...supported!!!!"
"i support this i am caldari and only having a bonus to kinetic damage is retarted"
"omen needs the grid to fit 800mm plate, mwd and focused medium pulse iis. according to my eft, with maxed out skills that's a 5% pg boost and to accomodate for lower skilled players somewhere more around 10-15% would probably be in order.(and then you've got cpu issues to deal with...)"
"now i support this guys idea"
"there is nothing wrong with the idea, and i see no problem with small amounts that reward long term players. 1mil sp per year remap for each year account has been active (paid months) would be fair i think. so if you started in 2003 and have not stopped paying since the first month you would get a 7mil sp remap. ( so for even max chars ingame since the start they don't even get 6 months of training back... i really don't see how anyone could see it as a problem. tbh, i'd be happy if they did it as a once only thing, or even did it only every 3-4 years.lets face it.. i studied italian irl in school 7 years ago..how much of it do i remember? nothing! lol"
"strongly support. learnings are an anachronism that should go."
"supported. this is my 2nd char in eve after a looong break. so it's stuck in a station doing learning and cybernetics skills for 3 weeks.thanks."
"simply wtf ccp"
"i don't know"
"fully supported. this will help stop macros and make mining more fun. also that geo orbit might make trageting miners more fun toedit ok that pos idea is awsome"
"sounds like an excellent idea, supported."
"i dunno, this sounds an awful lot like pi to me.also, i like that belts have lots of asteroids -- that's how asteroid belts are in space. having a giant non-planet ball of minerals isn't very space-realistic.i think ccp can and should crack down on macro miners (and macro ratters), so points for thinking about the problem, but i don't like the elimination of belts (and of mining crystals for specific types of asteroid)."
"ccp haven't iterated on sovereignty since the latest version came out, and it still needs a lot of work! so please post here if you want to tell ccp that whatever sov system you're in favor of, you want ccp to look at sovereignty again and get it fixed!edit- i am trying to deliberately make this proposal blind to any particular detailed sov proposal. there are way too many out there at the moment to endorse one without compromising the overall most important message that ccp need to look at sov in the first place."
"+1perhaps this one?"
"there is already a thread in assembly hall on a sov revamp here."
"yea, only, your idea for sov is just as terrible as the one we have in place.also, your asking for an actual set of changes that you personally came up with, something that is never actually going to happen.see, ccp have people they pay to come up with stuff, they don't actually need or want your personal ideas past \"sov needs work\". they don't want your 250 word nerd essay, just a gentle nudge, as they have their own balancing think tank that will come up with the actual change themselves.to top it off, in your total ignorance of how the actual process works, your insulting the one person who is properly phrasing the topic to ccp, in a way that they care about.unless you can name any single idea in the ah that was installed exactly as some half wit player had envisioned...oh, no you can't.hmm, perhaps the proper structure is just too much for you to cope with.edit: dear god the other guys thread is a hit point increase proposal, jesus what is wrong with you people"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"yes please"
"i am trying to deliberately make this proposal blind to any particular detailed sov proposal. there are way too many out there at the moment to endorse one without compromising the overall most important message that ccp need to look at sov in the first place."
"oh god please!"
"oh god yes, please fix this ****!"
"yes, is no fun"
"sov needs to be worked on, thats for sure.."
"+1 for ccp doing some work on the sov system"
"chewing sov structures is impossible for a small fleet to do in a reasonable amount of time now+1 for sov getting a workover"
"you can thank the csm for the system we have now. they were directly involved and gave the current system the seal of approval. now you want them to have another shot at it? get a clue little girl."
"i think it's definitely time for a another visit of the sov system."
"word"
"ccp stated that they wanted to give some weight to small gangs in 0.0 warfare. they implemented dominion for... oh wai...something's wrong here !"
"if you can't even get weights and currencies right then why would anyone agree with you at all? i sure as hell don't carry 50 lbs around in my wallet."
"horrible, horrible idea.that would be like wow charging players to use top-end gear.the op is bad and they should feel bad.absolutley not supported."
"maybe he means the price divided by the base rate of the ship per month. for a chimera at 1.188 billion kg thats something like 1.909e-9 per month. so my first penny is collected 43652872.38 years from now. i guess that penny is ok because by then at 15 a month i'll have paid 785.75 million in sub fees per toon.oh and miriam, 50 pounds in stripper singles is 22680 rounded up to the nearest integer. someone never needs to leave the tittibar again."
"i cant stop laughing at this idea muhahahaha"
"i am disappoint. very disappoint. ccp...destroy deviantart."
"ok, when i read this i tough.. naaahh it cannot be that bad.. people are surely overrreacting...then i opened the links and.. wtf!!!!!!!for god sake! no one but a group of peopel trying to sabotage eve would have selected all those pieces of garbage!"
"making my first post ever on the forums to support this.seriously, wtf da."
"tsunami and tsunami certainly first one is more qualifying for semifinal than second one, aha. that's all set-up. same case for la-battlecruser, which is rebrended da-mascot (only reason it's being fawed) and not that crap from semifinals."
"what this guy said.my sentiments exactly."
"they changed it!"
"no wonder i wqas so confused...the tornado is now in there. gods, i wanna fly that!"
"i never ***** at things because i fell that there are good reason for things.even though i knew i was not going to win, i still submitted 3 entries.but come on.....this contest should be re-evaluated by either ccp or the eve community.there are no reasons as to why the la should be there...i personally do not think the judge looked at all the ships.i would like to see the score of all ships.guin"
"this is like picking dog show judges to pick the winners of a rose-growing contest.seriously...this is an abomination. whatever ship makes it into the game, i will be tempted to personally pop every time i see one outside of highsec, especially if it's the la battleship or whatever that...paper airplane is."
"they apologized."
"well ... they rationalized."
"touche"
"that wasn't an apology, it was an excuse."
"channel available to discuss this epic fail.join: create a ship petition"
"i'll remove my vote, think its good enough for me, there where a few better choices but overall its a good line up with the naru-kami & tornado in there, and the lolwat one removed, edit: most of the better designs seemed the same kinda ships we already have"
"this.they only addressed the one most obvious screwup (and only because it had the artist's signature in violation of the rules, not because it was a poor design), and completely ignored the fact that well over half of the 15 finalists are in no way related to eve."
"well its jsut a way to allow to give the prize to the tornado (and it does deserve it) because anything else would just continue the rage on the comunity."
"raeg!"
"f*ck da and do it yourself ccp. we at least trust your art team with that much...(fix trails and cyno lol)"
"as one of the reknowned shipwrights in the game im clearly upset that superior talents of fellow shipwrights where not even considered."
"/signed"
"i've had an account with da longer than i've had one in eve, but i stand with the rest of the eve universe in supporting that ccp make their own decisions as to the worthy designs in this contest. deviantart has chosen... poorly*.*in some of the cases, at least."
"in their own words, they admit that \"fitting into the existing world of eve\" was not a priority:"
"signed."
"what. a. shame."
"leave us alone! just leave us alone! derp."
"signedadvertising iteron in my eve???this must be dealt with... (by ccp)"
"for once, i agree with merin."
"judges?"
"no, i cannot support this. the rules were posted, the submissions made, the judging done. just because you or your frineds ship didn't get chosen is no reason to throw a temper tantrum.i like some of the designs chosen, i dislike others. i also like a few that were not chosen, and dislike some of the ones not chosen, including a fair few the \"community\" seems to have liked.either way, it is done. time to move on.."
"yeah the rules where posted.to bad the da staff didnt follow them!and the majority is mad not becaus the ship of a friend didnt get chosen, but that most of the semi finalist where sub-par to other designs and didnt even follow the rules and aims of the contest. and to make matters worse the da staff defended the exluding of the better ships by refering to rules several of the semi ships also didnt follow.there no logic to it, either the da staff was baked of their ass, or we are talking rigging of the results. the grose disrespect and neglect of their own rules, their insults, go take your troll and head to a pregnant teenager forum instead."
"exactly my own thoughts.why do you ( ccp ) let someone else who does not play the game, to judge on your and our future ships ?+"
"yes, they are. several of the most vocal posters here and on the da board are entrants into the contest. others are climbing on the bandwagon because a design they personally liked didn't get chosen ahead of a design they personally didn't like.that is the nature of a contest. a few entrants will win, most entrants will loose. now ccp will have the final say.."
"you assume much.to my knowledge, i'm not acquainted with any of the people who entered the contest.it does not take personal ties to be enraged that this would make it to the top 15 in a contest brimming with talented entries."
"it is not in the top 15.."
"yes, it was.it was in the initial top 15 until the community outrage blared out. in the end, it was swapped out for a community favorite, the tornado, when it was pointed out that it had a water mark in the lower right - a blatant rules violation."
"/signed"
"that is the nature of a fair and honest contest, and this one is nothing like that. and of course the ones voicing their concern are entrants into the contest. its major humiliation to see that subpar ships are choosen over superior designs. most of the contestants are ok with being beaten by a superior oponent. but to lose becaus someone is trowing a fit and doing what they like with the results, giving it away to designs that would have a rough time against some of the excluded ones, is humiliating and insulting. these people voice their concern becaus its a direct attack against them, the players of eve and generaly becaus people do not like injustice. some of the designs are awsome, but then again some shouldnt be among the semi finalists. and the people thats \"jumping\" on the bandwagon can be explained with this. too quote edmond burke \"all that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing.\"im not saying da is evil, but this also applies to injustice."
"yes, it was.no, it is not. it does not matter that it might have been at one time, or why it is not there now, it is not on the list that will be submitted to ccp for judging. so all the angst and drama over why it might have been included is now moot."
"and to want ccp to step in is also a grave injustice."
"no, it is not. it does not matter that it might have been at one time, or why it is not there now, it is not on the list that will be submitted to ccp for judging. so all the angst and drama over why it might have been included is now moot.somewhere on this forum (was posted earlier) is a quote by one of the da judges stating the la battlecruiser was nr 15 and that the tornado was nr 16. if you compare those designs its pretty hard to belive, becaus if the tornado was nr 16, it means it wasnt disqualified, and if it wasnt disqualified the da team saw it as subpar to all the other semi-finalists. and thats even harder to belive.now what is easy to belive is that they freaked out due to the major collective outburst at the ridicule of the la battlecruiser as a semifinalist, and swapped it with the tornade, a favorit, to save face. this is cause for great concern since they first let trough an entry that was obviusly breaking the rules, but that also wasnt as good as many other designs. it was unoriginal, it already recembles the catalyst destroyer, and no major artistic skills or effort looked to have gone into the creation of it. to sum it up, theres is ground for concern at the judges skills and credebility.edit: sorry for the my bad english"
"oh it certainly does matter because it means the da judging process decided that this unimaginative, rules-breaking entrant was of such merit that it was to be in the top 15 of all the entries.this calls into question the da judging process.many members of both the da and eve communities have called for more transparency in the judge's selection and scoring. an explanation of how 'la battlecruiser' got into the top 15 is, at the very least, owed to the many artists who actually put research time, creativity, and effort into making an aesthetically pleasing ship that would mesh seamlessly into eve's artistry."
"my apologies. i read the rules and didn't notice that part.my impression was that the contest was not that specific. i didn't realize that a seamless mesh and pleasing aesthetics was required.i noticed some entries had a lot of detail, even extending to slots, pg, bonuses, etc. etc.i didn't realize ccp was looking for complete, seamlessly artistic, ships to place in game. i thought they were looking for a design that they ( ccp ) could adapt and place into the game at some point, perhaps at a size, or in a role, or with some different details not envisaged by the original artist.."
"bloody oath, this is just shambles. (also, remember to tick support guys!)"
"oh man... wtf is this?"
"ccp should pick the top 3 from those semi-finalists and give them the material prizes, but since it's their game, they should choose the ship to be included in the game from all the entries submitted. at least then i wouldn't have to fly with some pos design that the da judges picked."
"/facepalm!"
"/signedfolks from devianart have no idea about eve universe"
"i think it is bull**** that they picked 15 and then because of cry babies remove one and replace it. the guy made it to the semifinals and you troll him out. just because you don't like it does not disqualify the fact he won."
"word. ccp should have been judging the contest entries, not deviantart."
"i think ccp should just completely ignore da's semi-finalists, and create their own top-15.then have a poll on the eve-o website about what ship people wants the most."
"that submission was removed because it broke the rules. which is astounding that the judges didn't catch that before picked as a semi-finalist."
"/signed!"
"+1rejudge the contest, try to get some ships that actually fit in eve."
"design 101: you are making something for a client who will have certain expectations for you to design within. in this case, a universe that your ship must fit in. and almost all of these failed terribly, yet were chosen over entries that were far superior. screw da."
"supported"
"it seems your lights are on, but no ones home."
"the finalists are mostly dumb.people have linked awesome-looking ships that actually looked like a races style that didn't make it to the top 15, yet random crap that would be mistaken for existing ships did make it?throw it out. make a poll website where people can browse ships and vote (with their active eve online account, once per ip address...) on which 15 they like the best.then boom, there you have it, ships that people will like more often than not.but this da contest is just junk."
"oh dear"
"this/signed to the topic"
"personally i have to agree. ccp should redo the judging themselves. just the inclusion of the la battlecrapper makes me think there has to be far better ones out there that have been looked over and would fit into our universe or even be seriously better in an artist/art critics point of view. them putting the tornado (even though i think its a sexy ship)in place of the la battlecruiser, while admirable.. just doesn't cut it.deviantart dropped the ball on this one and while their efforts were... admirable... its time to pass the judging back into the hands of ccp."
"this deviantart-contest sucks.. ccp show us, you can make it better.i fully agree, please rejudge the contest."
"i am in the same situation. please rejudge this ccp. these entries are... terrible.does eve really need a minmatar iteron v? or a flying ruler? what happened to all the great designs we were drooling over? the stahlvogel, the tornado, the aquilon?edited to add support. don't forget to \"support this topic\"!"
"supported"
"well, the stahlvogel (and a number of other great entries) got dq'd because they had shading on the lineart. apparently shading counts as \"color\" in the judges view.the tornado made it in, as we all know and are quite pleased about.and the aquilon... well no f#$&ing clue why that one didn't make it. it's lineart was all grey and black, it looked perfectly gallente, and the art was great. no reason it shouldn't have been chosen. same thing with the horus. quite simply, da screwed up badly. but in many art contests (and not just on da) i've noticed that judges will often do pity nominations, where obviously bad art gets chosen to bolster the hopes and dreams of aspiring and/or crappy artists."
"agree"
"agreed"
"that is an absolute insult to the eve community! ! !deviantart obvious feels they are elite amazing artists with a better opinion on what looks good and are telling eve players to stfu. well deviantart can suck it, the eve community isn't taking that crap. we have way more talented people than deviantart will ever have. deviantart people are basically telling us to take the crap art they feel is best and put it in our game forcibly, well screw them. and their taste in art sucks even if they know nothing about eve. they are obviously giving a lame excuse for the horrible crap that unfolded with this contest. somebody made a mistake, how else would a ship like la battlecruiser make the top 15? or the donut ship and many others? all chosen over much better entries made earlier in the contest? it's very obvious that whoever chose these simply skimmmed off the top of the newest entries and chose at almost random for a top15. a top 15 is not a random most recent 15!!! i could easily write many walls of text giving the most profane and vulgar hateful words to deviantart but i'm afraid if i do ill get banned from the forums, so im really holding myself back here, there's so much i want to say about deviantart and how much they suck, you have no idea! ahhggg!!"
"elitist ****s, i've always said it about da in the past and i'm sticking with it. +1"
"please let the contest be reviewd by judges that actually play eve. i don't need some 14y old that knows how to use photoshop tell me how the elite-superartists from deviantard know what's right for the game i love. unless they blow phreeze."
"bloody horrible...signed."
"i want a second chance entry but are not the best but i want to be judged against the best compared not to off topic.hippogypemidas"
"want-to-buy real results/supported"
"we need more information wave. do not be lazy, people otherwise all \"finalists\" would be into your eve.fight for the game you love!"
"woo hoo rage!"
"just lol"
"+1. ccp definitely need to re-pick the finalists."
"supported.das atrocious attempts at damage control by their community rep, which basically amounts to 'i dont know anything about it stop being big meanies to us' dont help either."
"+1and include not only the shiny ones but conceptual"
"a boring choice of semi-finalists, noone of of my favorite works are there.well, +1, but it's also boring to wait for another contest, anyway..."
"deviantart's \"apology\" is an insult. i agree with the proposed action, we should never have anything to do with da again."
"ccp needs to rejudge this whole damn contest."
"there are some fine choices in the finalists, but at the same time so many even better choices were left overlooked :(too bad aquilon isn't there."
"even if they can't force deviantart to rejudge (which they should), they should judge independently about what ship to add to the game, because of the current lineup, the tornado will likely smoke the competition; a sad state for the entries that could have given it a run for its money.personally, i'd love to see ccp pick their own semifinalists and put a poll on the forum and ask the players which ship they want the most."
"supported - some of the entries were craptastic, unoriginal, not useful (advertising ship, wtf?) and just plain stupid.and the \"apology\" was purely telling us that we should shut up and accept they know better.tell da where to shove their judges, if they allow some rulebreakers, but disqualify excellent artists on a whim - if they have no taste for what makes good eve ships, and if they have no taste in general."
"wow!i am in my final year of a games modelling degree at university, i really wanted to enter the competition but due to mainly a lack of spare time, but also the amount of awesome designs already submitted i decided i wouldn't be able to spare the time to create and enter something credible.during the first stage there were heaps of designs that i immediately thought they would give anything i could produce a run for its money (and better). however after seeing the semi-finalist...boy was i shocked, i see 2 maybe 3 designs that i would say are realistic contenders in comparison to other entries.i feel bad for some of the contenders that clearly spent more time, effort and skill on their entries than some of the semi-finalist.poor form da."
"definitely disappointed.supporting this."
"i ve been in the cg scene for like 15 years, and deviantart is of the worse comunities (along with many other poser sites) it must be done again. ps i have not entered my ship because of devianart."
"i have been on deviantart for longer than in eve, and this has been a major letdown. they turned a great concept and amazing community response into one big joke."
"i want that flying frisbee. thing looks a lot like the orii battlehip from stargate sg-1"
"agree"
"i am disappointed with the choices as well."
"posting here to echo the sentiments, **** poor choices on most entries. i liked 2-3 but there were too many mediocre ones that didn't deserve their place in semifinals. ccp choose your own semifinalists, do not honor the choices devian\"art\" has chosen for us."
"i am quite disappointed too. some are the choices i expected to see selected, but a lot, not really. not that i am mad or whatever not to have been selected, i was prepared to that and did it mostly for the experience (and it was a great one), especially as i think some designs deserved way better than mine, and were not selected either (except one or two i was watching carefully).it is always difficult to criticize and speak about that when you actually are part of the contest and lost. but i have to support this petition though. as an artist myself, the semi finals choice makes little sense for me."
"agree."
"tornado makes me want to fly minmatar, i fly everything but minmatar thusfar.by contrast la battlecruiser and okhos battleship make me glad that for the most part they'll be distance blips.deviant art was the right place to post the contest, the wrong place to decide what from the contest was good and fit into the eve universe as it's abundantly clear that some of them don't know a thing about eve and have no real care for the end product of this ( a ship roughly like the winners goes into eve ) vs the prizes."
"+1and +1 again"
"so many good entries overlooked"
"+1stahlvogel where are you!!!"
"spine-mounted railgun, in my eve? imho the stahlvogel looks like it belongs in fusion 2097, not eve online.the contest had rules, many of the good entries didn't follow them. for example take the sandstorm minmatar battlecruiser - it has the required views, but they're all done with shaded models not line art as per the rules.at the very least, the judging panel should have been joint between da staff and eve online art department. and perhaps the eve community should have been more involved at the beginning of the process by commenting on the ships they liked.there is always the possibility of the eve community viewing the entries and picking our own list of what is good, what is funny (as a minmatar pilot, i'm saddened that noone submitted an office chair with uzi machine guns), what is bad, and what is terrible.the people that did comment on the contest have been extremely poorly behaved - there are rules on the da site about being polite, even if you don't agree with someone. i suspect that the behaviour of the eve community has left a very bad impression on all the da folks who participated in the competition, regardless of the judging.the final 15 do show that the da community has a very different idea of what a spaceship looks like than the eve community does. some of them would be best described as rocket planes, not spaceships. i think the da community needs to go pull out a few dozen issues of \"analog\" to get some inspiration :)look at the bes for example - a very creative design, complies with the contest conditions, is very eve-ish in its appearance, but relies on using line of sight to protect the ship inside it's dry dock. everyone knows that weapons don't use line of sight! what was the guy thinking? at least the design showed some originality.fwiw i can see the merits of the current pick of semifinalists - but the judging was about compliance with the rules, and artistic merit. i agree with the sentiment that the precursor/precursor mk 2 should have made it into the finalists list. perhaps ccp could approach that artist independently?"
"i wondered at first why you thought that ship you linked was a good submission because it honestly sucks. then i read the rest of your post and realized you were an idiot."
"1.0"
"in support.probably because i lost, but mostly because i don't really like any of the entries."
"simple solution: redo the contest from the start with one more rule; you must be an eve member to submit a ship.otherwise, fire deviantart and rejudge with ccp judges (or the community) from the beginning."
"without consider eve integration or not, some of the entries who was selected are a epic joke to be in the top 15 , in regards of some awsome jobs posted in the contest !!!! ( no need to link some of them, i m sure everybody here could find better eligible submission ( 6views+1 another))some of those top 15 pics looked to be choosen too quickly by judge, or if not those judge needs to change job quickly too...it s just my \"modeler 3d / graphic professional\" impress on this.... da failling!!"
"i'm not sure about this. i kinda agree that it's ew since it shuts down your ability to do damage/remote rep, but at the same time, it's damage too since it shuts down your tank. i think your comparsion to damps/ecm etc is valid, but so is comparing it to guns/missiles.maybe a compromise with neuts having a reduced effect?"
"proposal:allow shareholder information to be accessable via the eve api.prosa corp's ceo would be able to access the full list of pilots who own shares in their corp via the apipilots would be able to see what shares they own via the api.all dividend payouts from shares would be accessable for individual pilots via the api*limited dividend payouts to shareholders would be accessable for corp ceo's via their apivotes, and vote data would be accessable via the api for ceos and shareholders (although you'd not be able to interact with these votes)cons*the overheads and server cost for ceo's viewing their full dividend payouts via the api could be highsomeone has to program itotherother corp role owners could be added to include them in being able to access the shareholder lists and other such relevant information listed above-t'amber"
"should that rather be:a corp's ceo would be able to access the full list of pilots who own shares of their corp via the apiiirc you can own shares of corps without being in the corp.(edit: typo)"
"correct, this is why i seperated ceos and pilots."
"thanks for the input so far, folks. hoping to get this on the calendar for this weekend's meeting.oops, did i accidentally bump the thread? how clumsy of me..."
"well if you look at current fleet setups fielded all around eve you will notice the total superiority of drake-spams. fleets consisting of hundrets of drakes are far to commmon. where are all the other shiptypes? why is subcap warfare currently dominated by drakes?is it the huge resistance-bonus? the great range of heavy missiles? the selection of dmg types? the price? the behavior of missiles in high lag situations? the speed or agility?why is the drake preferred over nearly any other shiptype? the drake itself nor the missiles havnt changed for years. what is the factor making all the other ships obsolete or less attractive? i think never before a subcap has dominated fleet-warfare like it currently happening with the drake.do you think ccp should look into this issue? then plz give support to this thread. why do you think is it, like it ist?"
"this is where i knew this was a troll100 drakes arent any better than 100 zealots and 100 of anything combat wise is going to cause damage"
"we really dont need more than one thread on the topic. follow up hereand to the op. you have no clue or are trying to troll. both is bad."
"does not look like a troll. its a fact drakes are fotm.drakes are handsome ships, i think the 80k+ ehp and the high dps @ 75km are the reason. also you dont run into tracking problems. heavy missiles apply their dmg to everything.if you fly a shield tanked snipe-zealot, you have far less ehp and all the issues connected with tracking etc.... a zealot will do less dmg @ 70+km as well. even if you max out an armor tanked zealot, you wont beat the ehp a drake has. also by increasing your tank you gimp your guns. drake is just better. more ehp...like a battleship. tank and dmg are on different slots: so you can max out your shield tank and your dmg at once.@ agility: you can devote 1-2 lowslot to fit nanos or ods....drakes can be quite agile....at least compared to bs with similar ehp and long range dps."
"read post 25 in the linked thread about dps advantage of the drake. and as a lr hac pilot i would worry more about pulse apocs tbh. (those are also fotm)"
"you put 100 drakes up against 100 harbingers or 100 hurricanes, chances are the drakes will win 90% of the time by more than a clear margin."
"we arent theorising 100 v 100 fleets, as the game shouldnt really be balanced around massive fleet fights, and it doesnt really matter about 100 harbs v 100 drakes, the drake isnt overpowered. its the only decent t1 caldari ship for small gangs/solo and just about the only cost effective caldari ship"
"i can't believe this even needs to be discussed. it should be obvious."
"the best thing that can happen to you is that you discuss a severe bug, which you have reported, with a bug hunter, that bug hunter asks a gm and suddenly you get banned without a word."
"transparency is a good thing in window glass and in moderation."
"that is the least ccp should do for banned players."
"an exact explanation of what was detected with \"documentation\" will give away too much informations on how it was detected. sending \"documentation\" to every ral money trader, macro user and so on would blunt ccp hunting tools very fast."
"so getting banned and asking ccp why you get banned and you dont get any answers for weeks because ccp cant be asked is ok then?"
"yes"
"same here supporting !"
"oh how i've wanted this..."
"camo is intended to fit the setting that it's in. planes use a sky camo below and a ground camo above, urban camo matches the grays and whites of the concrete jungle, there are camos of various browns and tans to match the sand and rock of the desert, white and light gray/black camos match snowy terrain, and there are literally dozens of woodland and forest camo designs to fit the multitude of vegetation and woodlands of the world. if ya want to use a camo on a spaceship ccp, then make it match the enviro - black, various subdued shades of color to match nebulae, bright splotches to appear as suns, and sprinkled dots for the stars. c'mon. use your imagination and get rid of the stupid woodland and terrestrial type camos that look absurd and moronic in space."
"i agree 100%, no more camo in space."
"jesus christ yes."
"camo serves as camoflage - there is no jungle in space to be camoflaged in."
"i cant find the navy megas as it is trying to gank me in recon 3/3!"
"old surface navy style dazzle camo would be fun to see:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.anything that could potentially break up the outline of the ship against the background of space, not try to hide it from view."
"i think work should be done to optionally map a pilot's corp logo onto the side of their ship. i know that would be programming and not art dept, but still..."
"it would be more useful to allow one monitor for \"space view\" and one monitor for \"windows view\".so that you can extend the game onto anouther monitor without your ship being on the crease between the 2 monitors and would provide more space for windows (especally the market).this would also be useful in allowing you to do other things in eve while mining or gate camping without your space view being cluttered with windows."
"looks like some fails at reading.i would like the option to have no borders on my eve clients.while this was on my csm agenda, i'm not sure why i never posted it here.nice work as always.-t'amber"
"yes plz.but even more than that i want freely resizable client window in windowed mode."
"i want to have the choice to make an avatar that is the same skin color as myself \"black\". why must ccp make a game universe of only white people? maybe theyll make some story line missions pertaining as to why there's no black people in the world of eve? or maybe they're a bunch of white supremacist? who knows!... and look out of all the smilies there's not one that resembles a black person wtf!"
"i see him fine in your list of smiliys. the two smiliys sitting next to him don't look to happy though. if the black smiley disappears it is probably because a hate crime happened after i fixed your post."
"thats pretty ****ed up. and kinda funny.(and i'm haitian too)."
"black people unite!"
"i heard in this thread i didn't exist"
"says the achura. why didn't you create a brutor?"
"those smiles are yellow, not white"
"^ in preparation of china's new world order and kingdom over all of earth."
"i knew it was only a matter of time until this thread appeared..."
"does that mean that i'm just black on the inside?"
"i dont want a avatar that is kinda black because the lightings off, i want one that is actually black like myself..."
"it's difficult to get sun when you're in a pod 24/7."
"in all seriousness, this topic has come up before. ccp never said why or anything, they just ignored it. in iceland it is ok to be racist.then again, i'm guessing the issue will be resolved in a month when the character creator comes out. if not, then it just goes to show you they had a second time to show they are not racist and choose to ignore the issue."
"all pod pilots should be albino."
"i thought skin pigmentation was based on the climate that your group of people were raised in over the ages. if that is the case we have spent what? thousands of years floating around in space? that would most likely lead to some regression in pigmentation. maybe not to the point that you are ghooooostly white like native icelandics or lapp finns, but it would do some havoc.i guess people do live on planets tho."
"are you blind or something? we have black characters now! seriously! look at my portrait ffs."
"inappropriate language removed. - adida"
"there are more varying skin types in the new avatar maker."
"you had that choice, but apparently decided that character stats were more important than skin colour when you started playing the game."
"since there have been countless debates in different forums about this issue i think the best solution would be to change blue pills to a shield cap boost bonus.i think it's reasonably logical that you could improve ship shield performance so that overall capacity would rise. so for logic/story sake, it works. it also removes the dual bonus to active tank shield ships while not really hurting active tankers who trained for this pill.i think the basic idea would be something like this:base 30 minutesstandard:30% boost to shield capacityside effects: 30 % increase in shield recharge rate30 % explosion velocity penalty30 % capacitor capacity penalty30 % turret tracking penaltythe higher teirs would add 5% to each effect per level.this gives supers the chance to gain the buffer they wanted with the downside of harmful negative effects, and gives smaller ships a way to increase buffer w/o increasing passive tank. it also negatively affects smaller ships that try to use invul fields due to the capacitor side effect. obviously, the drug would need to be used ahead of a fight. obviously it would require ccp to fix shield bonuses to work. essentially, armor and shield would then have a way to gain capacity, and a way to gain rate of recharge depending on their choice of either drug or implants. it's just role reversal for the races."
"check"
"why the hell would anyone sane want to buff buffer tanking, which already is way more common than active one?"
"because they use it? i'd vote to buff projectiles even though they don't need it"
"hi there, welcome to 2010. hope you had a good trip over from 2007.here in 2010 people fit projectiles and active tanking on appropriate ships."
"no. most of the few viable active tanking setups that exist relies on combining crystals with blue pill and faction/complex boosters. changing blue pill would kill those setups and make active tanking even less viable."
"i think that ccp should fix the nighthawk by giveing it a bonus to hams/hm's as it is now the sleipner is faster has more tank than a non passive nighthawk and more dps"
"not supported.as a former caldari player, i can say this.nighthawks are fine."
"a matari that doesnt want the nighthawk to get better lol"
"i used to be a caldari pilot. this character is new."
"please note that this topic has been posted several times before.you can find links to the original topics in this thread.thank you."
"i'd love to see hybrids do 1 thing which would make them a worthwhile choice for pvp, neutralise cap. can't catch a mwding hac with your slow (but cap stable) deimos? hit it with puny damage until it caps out, get in close and hit the web/scram, drones will help with dps.make gallente ships a legitimate choice for pvp."
"main problem i see as a blaster piolet is damage modules are low slots and armor tanking is linked to the low slots. a few days ago, my blaster mega, with tech 2 guns got engaged by a maelstrom in close range combat. i was like yah, finally get to melt somebody's face. nope. was my face that was melted. granted he died but only be cause my corp mates joined me to kill him, and save my ass. we where trading same blows, with his doing slightly higher damage and nearly twice the rate of fire. and he aggressed me first in lowsec, so he was tanking my blaster damage and sentry damage. talk about humilating. corp mate said i had too much tank and i was like well wtf. would have lost any way because the maelstrom tank is sheild tank which uses mid slots leaving the low slots free for damage modifiers and the sheild boosters, even the xl, uses only half the power large armor reppers use. sure it only boosts half the hp the armor repper does, but the time between activations is only 5seconds. almost half the time of a large armor repper and you get the hp immediatly while with armor reppers you have to wait for the cycle to finish. reason why every one is flying mini ships right now. insane alpha, able to fit a tank, and have the damage modes on it to get a good rof. with gallente, its really one or the other approach. either you melt people but are a glass cannon or you are brick thats slow as hell and do meh damage. one possible solution is to seperate armor tanking from the low slots, or move the amarr tanking mods to the mid slots. allowing them to do both as well. cause every one should fear a blaster boat in close quarters combat."
"if you were dealing only half the damage he was there is something wrong with your mega fit. bear in mind whilst he was trading tank/gank for tackle you were trading tank for gank, chances are if he had you so heavily out tank/ganked you could have run away."
"7) fitting requirements. ease fitting requirements of hybrid turrets. use slots currently used for fitting (reactor control units, ancilliary current routers) for top line hybrids on other modsthat will improve ship performance."
"that is pretty rare though in comparison to all the ships that don't need it, so either ignore cans when saving, or have it look for the correct type of container and the appropriate content and then place the can with the content in cargo if both are available when loading the fit."
"even then ... i am more the fan of complete solutions or not doing it at all. so unless they will handle cans properly, i am still thumbs down. just imagine ... \"hit the \"fit ship\" button\" thinking you are ready to go and once you hit the fight, you notice \"**** not enough cap booster\"."
"sounds like an idea. and while you're at it, please implement a lot of other stuff that'll probably get ****ed up, too."
"there should be a check box though 'save ammo in fit yes/no?' or even better 'save cargo hold contend yes/no?'"
"yeah your idea is stupid"
"no ccp, hire me, i have brownies"
"if the op is so smart then why does he have such a stupid name? 777, yeah real original and creative there buddy. get out."
"when i next apply for a job, i will post anonymously at my potential employer's forum claiming that their flagship product has no future unless they put me on the payroll.what could go wrong?"
"if your iq is so high why can't you find the online job app on eve's website. and i belive your opinion of yourself is way to high. there is almost 0 chance you can fix all of eve's problems yourself."
"and me too, i love eating brownies, me and that guy would make a great team! him and the brownies, me and the eating, its lovely in my mind!"
"1. information warfare is fine, if you don't need those bonuses it's not making them a less useful for someone who actually uses it.2. current fleet system already allows a flexible mixing. with 2 or more cs/t3.hovewer, personally i think that bonuses from t3 must be same as from cs... well, maybe for t3 it's will be not a bad idea to reduce bonus to 3%, but to all links...so... 50/50 :)"
"anyone who thinks the t3 bonuses are overpowered haven't flown a t3 and given bonuses.gallente bonuses are fine. there's nothing wrong with them if used properly."
"5>3;all of them giving bonuses from a spot anyway. well, t3 booster can also no worry about hostile probes..."
"t3's can fit all 3 links with a higher bonus (that takes less time to train for), while having covert ops cloaking and probing bonuses, in addition to being immune to probes and bubbles.granted, t3's fitted as command ships with all 3 links will generally not be able to stay on the field though due to lack of tank, so field commands have an advantage there."
"[] option: turn camera swing off.two or more accounts + camera swing as if we were on the ocean = not fun. why can't the camera remain perfectly still when your ship is. i always have the issue of thinking my ship is moving (accidentally double click) when it's just the camera bobbing in random directions.please, add an option so we don't have to get seasick in space."
"aye ~o~"
"totally off topic, but one pen and paper rpg used the terms \"coreward\" vs \"rimward\" and \"spinward\" vs \"trailing\" - but these were developed by denizens of a spiral galaxy rather than our current lenticular cluster, so i am not sure how well they would translate."
"was that game perchance traveler? i seem to recall them having those references."
"i agree. so far the \"tactical overlay\" hasn't been too tactical. would also be nice if you could place markers for your fleet members to see on it by using, for example, a similar mechanic as homeworld had for it's movement commands, but i think that's for another topic."
"in the us military, for example, there is a legal limit on the number of generals/admirals that can be in active duty at any one time. fw should follow this. my proposal, create a fixed limit on the number of highest ranks that can exist at any one time, and a proprotional limit for all other ranks. for example (and i'm just pulling numbers out of a hat here): but lets say that the highest rank for each militia was limited to at most 50 pilots. then the second rank would be limited to say 5% of the total militia population. each lower rank would have an increased number of people, until maybe the lowest 3 ranks, which one could reach regardless of the number of pilots who had it. ranks would be based on a point system which one gets for conquering/securing fw plexes and/or success in battle with enemy militia pilots. this is to make ranks a bit more meaningful and something that people have to constantly work at competivitely to stay on top. maybe a montly lp reward could be attached to create insentives, such as top ranks get 30000 lp per month just for being able to maintain that rank for a majority of that month. *also, to make it so people actually have to participate in actual combat and conquering to gain top ranks, doing fw missions reward significantly less points than combat, so carebears who just run missions all the time aren't constantly ranked at the top versus people who are always out there, participating in battles. one more thing. maybe there can be a system such that people actually can lose points for things like, failing to prevent a plex from being captured (in effect only if you engage a target trying to capture a plex, and fail to prevent them from capturing it)."
"now watch people create alts in the opposing militia and constantly pop it to increase/maintain their rank.it's an interesting idea, i'll give you that. but it's too open to abuse in its current form.plus no one really cares about plexs, ranks, and system occupancy save for the role players (not that there is anything wrong about being one, it's perfectly fine, i'm just not one... again, not that i don't like them or anything... )."
"which is why there needs to be an improvement to the current system, along with the payout of lp. make ranks and plexes and system occupation actually worth it. increase your rank, get more lp, which means more money. limiting ranks help to create a competetive environment. plus, maybe there can be safegaurds against having a lot of repeated kills within a certain timeframe to reduce abuse."
"rp wise, ranks would only matter to the npcs anyway, and currently npcs in the game show no regard to rank. and, any system like this is going to be extremely gamable. so, while not a bad idea, there's no point, and even if there was it's not doable.edit: concerning the above post - what you are proposing is a complete revamp of the structure of fw, which i'd be interested in (even though ccp would never do it, regardless) but it's a ways outside this particular proposal in the op."
"some time ago a bunch of turds decided to dabble a bit and came up with a way to not show up in local chat. a lot of smoke was spotted and, rumor has it, a few may have gotten temp bans in the wake.a few days ago, a few pilots i know came across a ship. they found it and noticed a few odd things. according to numerous buddy lists, the pilot was logged on, but for some reason, he did not show up in local chat.after dispatching the vessel, a few inquiries were made. a gm oddly refused to investigate on the grounds that \"no evidence\" had been presented.if a gm had stalked this particular person for any length of time, he would have noticed that he frequently appears to have, let's say, 'issues with his client not allowing him to be shown in local.'naturally. the person in question and his friends are usually content to make use of such wild claims to amuse and entertain the eve community. my 'issue' however, has to do with the inherent flaw in gm policy. how can a potential eula breach ever be investigated if the criteria for starting an investigation is that the accuser/petitioner delivers absolute proof?this points to a central problem - witness accounts are not accepted as evidence. the account itself, by its very nature, does not provide proof. it does however warrant an investigation. if a gm decides not to investigate in spite of witnesses' accounts, then he is in effect making a ruling that the accuser/petitioner is lying.i am not sure how to turn this in to a \"proper csm issue,\" and i am not sure if it even belongs there. i do have reservations about the specific case. either the person, (lets call him abecirkel,) in question is cheating (again,) or the people who said he was, \"online, but not in local,\" lied to a gm in a petition.either way, we, the community, have a problem with how these cases are handled.also: anomaly respawns are bugged and a lot of people will not accept \"wait three downtimes\" as a solution."
"i agree..this should be a priority for ccp to prevent it even to be possible... ccp please look into this !"
"there are many issues here:since there as schani stated there are no appeals, so once again if you cheat ccp and makes isk (isk farmers) then you will be banned for live, cheat against a fellow player and that player not only has to prove that the other is the offender and what he has done, but he is for all practical purposes accused as being a liar and you get scot free and the gm wont even follow up on it even thou it is something the accused already have been found guilty of. the first is that ccp acknowledge that he was cheating by making a patch for the cheat but they did not reimburse those that lost their ships.the patch does not work obviously.the offending player is still in the game,( that makes me wonder if he got a friend, no it cant be) furthermore even this time those that attacked him shot the offender and have no reason to be vindictive other then they doesnt like to play against cheaters.if you look at ccps policies on this then abecirkel should no longer be able to play since he is guilty of 1a, 1b, 1c , partly 1e and 1f how many more policies do a player and his accomplices have to be guilty of before they are banned permanentlyquote of ccps policys on suspension and ban policy1. exploitsan immediate permanent ban of an account may result if:  a. investigation shows that a player has employed the use of an exploit tactic despite a public announcement being made to alert players they will be banned for using it. b. a player who has been previously warned for exploiting and continues to exploit, whether using the same exploit or another. c. an account holder guilty of employing duping exploits. players found to have received the benefits of this exploit may also face reprimand, from removal of the items in question up to, and including, banning of their accounts. d. a player has engaged in activity that intentionally causes others to lose connection, suffer latency issues (lag) or to crash to desktop (ctd). e. a player renders himself invulnerable through the use of a bug. f. a player has created, distributed or advertised an illegal 3rd party program (i.e. macro or cheat program) that disrupts game mechanics, is considered unfriendly or gives an unfair advantage by misusing game features in a way for which they were not intended.severe offences may result in an immediate ban without warning; however, warnings may be given for first time offenses, followed by account suspensions of varying degree and ultimately a permanent ban if a player:  a. creates a character using a name that is misleading and causes others to believe he is a fair target, such as a non-player pirate or other npc entity. b. is discovered to be employing the use of a third party program to macro illegally. funds or goods received from the benefits of macroing are subject to removal from the players inventory. c. is aware of an exploitable bug and fails to report it to game masters and/or distributes the information to other players."
"screenshots, or much better, a nice fraps showing the exploit would be very helpful."
"have you and your friends escalated to a senior gm or contacted ccp internal affairs?"
"(emphasis mine)you're funny."
"about half of the bounty prizes are ratting/anom/plex, so approximately 440.000.000.000.average tax is 10%. that mean that the different alliances get about 40 bil in taxes on bounties alone against 59 bil in sovereign costs. add the refining taxes, mandatory corp/alliance mining and ratting ops, moon goo exactions and reactions and capitals sales and it seem there is a good positive inflow both in the alliances pockets and in those of the single pilot."
"assuming the 440bil is only from sov 0.0 plexes/anoms etc what this shows is that sov alliances are only just covering their sov costs before reimbursements etc whilst empire mission runners with no sov bills and minimal pve losses are doing far better. of course it isn't as clear cut as that because there are likely more pilots sharing that mission running bounty pie, but it doesn't change the fact that their outgoings are minimal (ammo mostly) compared to 0.0 residents who have to replace lost ships all the time.of course some of those anoms are likely npc 0.0 and lowsec, so the 440bil is likely even less than that (you didn't quote the breakdown there i can't analyse further).all in all, pretty strong evidence that many 0.0 alliances are not rolling around in isk isn't it"
"lies, damned lies, and statistics."
"wreck outpostscombat boosters revamp:d"
"the scandal is that apparently someone's getting laid and i'm not."
"others think double dee = chromo effects new posting alt."
"how about making t2 covert battleships not apear in local as only ship ingame?"
"no."
"i don't think i twisted there words :|my agenda is that i already pay 200$ a month, and i don't want to have to pay more to get everything out of game. you are right about other games moving to a microtransactional based business model, but not all of them were successful. i'm not sure it will be best for our community, but we'll just have to see how things turn out.-t'amber"
"no 79.03% | yes 5.02% | cosmetic only 11.23% | other 4.73%vote totals are unconfirmed."
"my vote: yes.interesting, this is probably the most biased sounding original post (poll) i've ever read. this poll could have been a very neutral and easy survey thread to make, but a ton of very unnecessary comments/opinions were made by t'amber. people can figure out what they like on their own, you don't need to strike a huge campaign against micro-transactions in the poll itself. very unprofessional, i do say.reason for my vote: i do not believe they will really affect the game to the extent that many of the doomsayers believe it would."
"a bunch of moody amarrians in hoods chanting \"bela lugosi's dead\" over and over."
"confirming that my kitsune has been gathering dust on a shelf in my hangar since...well, when i bought it, pretty much.eas just go 'squish' too easily for you to get the full measure of use out them vs. cov ops or the t1 equivalents. and yes, having to rig a kitsune to take advantage of its ecm bonus is annoying."
"having never flown any of the eaf's i am not going to touch the balance/design particulars. that being said, there are two immediate questions/comments that result from reading this thread:1) if you argue that eaf's need a sig reduction, perhaps it is best not to say that a 3% sig reduction/lvl (hyena)is the most useless bonus a frig can have. i understand what your driving at but it seems contraditory on its face.2) it occurs to me that it isnt clear where these ships are supposed to function. if ccp thinks that eaf's should be mostly used when attacking frig/dessie size targets, and design the bonuses around this, then they will probably never be used to any great extent. the lack of use is more a function of current pvp style (bad expression sorry) and not so much a function of being underpowered for its job. additionally, if this is thier focus, then eaf capabilities do not need to be all that robust,in general, unless they envision eaf's being used solo. if, however, ccp wants eaf's to be used by more conventional gangs (and attacking a large array of target sizes)they must find a way to justify thier use over the recon class (or even over the blackbird in the case of the kitsune)while not making better in all cases (replacing).i wont pretend to know what ccp considers the role of eaf's are, if they even had a full conception in the first place, but it seems to me this question needs to be anwered for any meaningful rebalancing to occur.edit:forgot to support"
"excellent suggestions."
"i completely agree with everything. if super carriers are being piloted more than eaf's....that's all the proof that's needed. eaf is a pure pvp ship, there's nothing else you could possibly do with it. every version needs buffed to the point where it would be a viable asset to any pvp fleet of any size."
"there was a discussion about these ships in the s&m forum, and i submit that here for reference."
"the 3% signature radius reduction that the hyena currently has is almost the same bonus that interceptors used to have before the speed nerf. the interceptors got a 5% signature radius reduction per level. it was discovered with the changes that they instapopped at the new lower speeds. interceptors had their bonus changed to the current 15% reduction of mwd sig radius penalty/lvl. the poor hyena was left as is. i don't know what the right level would be. the hyena shouldn't get the same bonus as the interceptors. it needs a much smaller signature radius and perhaps a 9% reduction of the mwd sig radius penalty/lvl. all of the eas frigates need more survivability."
"please don't boost the sentinel, then someone other than me will fly it and i won't feel special anymore. okay, just kidding. i'm not sure what the official role is supposed to be for eafs, but it seems to me that they're supposed to provide ewar support for frigate gangs.why fly the kitsune in a gang when the blackbird offers more ehp and can jam at a much greater distance and is a lot cheaper?the kitsune, with eas trained to 5, can easily get a jam strength higher than the blackbird. however, is the extra strength worth it? benefits of the kitsune over the blackbird:higher jamming strengthsmaller, faster, more agilehigher scan resolutionbenefits of the blackbird over the kitsune:cheaper, even filly fit and riggedgreater targeting and jamming distancegreater ehpcan do damage (albeit small) at rangeit would seem that the trade off here would be: greater jamming strength for reduced survivability. however, the jam strength of the kitsune isn't all that much higher - a bit over 1 point using standard fits and decent skills. if you rig the blackbird for full ecm strength, the benefit is about half a point and it can still jam out farther than the kitsune.the kitsune is really only useful when you are flying frigate class fleets and need the mobility, and only economical when you're getting into small scale fights. the kitsune simply cannot afford to get hit, while the blackbird can take a few shots without having to warp out. this is a very limited role.along with the reduction in signature radius, the kitsune may also benefit from an extra 5% jam strength per level. boosting the capacitor bonus would be nice, too. i'm a bit on the fence about giving it more targeting range - then you could have a small sig ship sitting 80+km off with greater strength than the bb."
"if you throw a sensor booster w/ a targeting range script it can lock out to 105km with close to a 100km optimal range on it's jammers. the problem then is that you only can fit three jammers.the kitsune also has a higher sensor strength then the blackbird - it's harder to jam. the kitsune needs a smaller signature radius then the 58m it currently has. it also should get the same lock range/ scan resolution as the griffin - it's t1 counterpart. you could then get those three jammers out to 120km. with the optimal range bonus it's different then the rook/falcon - you actually have a reason to climb into it. the kitsune is easy to fix. and it should be fixed."
"that's true. i always try to have all 4 jammers on my ship and a mwd (i guess i'm a graduate from the merin ryskin school of ship fitting). time to raise even more hell then, i suppose..."
"they definitely need love."
"agreed."
"bust it! :)"
"a reason to actually train the skills beyond plugged in.. yes please"
"they really need fixed."
"here ye, here ye! the vigil/hyena hull was why i opted for the matar as my race, i was disappointed to find that the vigil was altogether more useful than the tech-2 variant, hyena.full-fledged support from the next generation of depraved denizen of new eden."
"not necessarily these changes, but some changes.resistances on par with their bigger brothers (combat recons) would be a good start. a caldari heavy assault ship's shield resistances are 0/70/50/80 while the rook has 0/62/50/70. the assault ship's shield resistances are the same as the heavy assault ship, but the kitsune's resistances are 0/55/50/60, making them quite a bit lower. other eaf resistances compare similarly.if they aren't set apart from their big brothers in terms of capabilities, they should at least have comparable bonuses. the keres in particular is a poor choice when the lachesis has a 20% instead of 10% bonus to warp disruptor/scrambler range. the down side to the keres should be that it's smaller and easier to kill, not that it has to get twice as close to be effective -- where range-scripted sensor dampeners will do it absolutely no good. it's already got fewer slots to fill with remote sensor dampeners. i understand the reasoning for the smaller bonus (there aren't sizes of warp disruptors and scramblers, so it's a way to make the smaller ship have a smaller effect) but it means that for direct conflict there is really not much reason to choose a keres.there are myriad ways to improve these frigates."
"up!"
"thx, don pellegrino, for posting the link.that would be really sad.ccp, what is correct `? will they come or not ?sandrine starfire"
"definitely something i would love to see again."
"i'm not gonna say i support your idea nor am i gonna shoot it down. instead i am gonna say this.im my time in the eve-verse i have trained many different skills. sci, combat, support, ect. even when i ended up training a not so useful skill (invention when i was a mission char) it still eventually turned out useful. so personally i don't see a terrible need for it. it is a game of patience and sometimes it takes time to get past those things that you maybe did a bit too early.on the other hand if you were really that picky and didn't want to check out and use many of the aspects of the game then i suppose i wouldn't necessarily object. but realize that i believe that there should be a hefty penalty for doing so. and i don't mean you pay isk. isk cost is a joke in most circumstances. you should have to temporarily shed attribute points to do so. maybe a week or two of -25% or so to training speed on top of a limit to how much sp you can move around. does it hurt? yes... but it should. after all you are re-writing your character sheet.just my feelings about this matter"
"no, but if it ever got implemented any sp you take out of a skill would forever lock you from ever remapping sp into it again and prevent you from ever learning it again, why cause eve haz consequences, until someone decides that it shouldn't and we have a 'proposal'."
"another idea which we can only hope that not be applied... but it can, as some other stupid ones."
"yeah i think it would help to introduce some manner of \"mining mini game\" to make mining less boring, but mostly to cut down on people using macros. i think you could still have the same amount of roids in a belt. but people would just focus on one or two roids at a time. also for the noobs i would make it so that skill point wise, the mining mini game is just as accessible as old mining.so you have to ask, \"will noobs be frightened by a complex mini-game to mine asteroids?\" ask yourself how many noobs know how to do planetary interaction, or use scan probes?ccp even had to make youtube tutorials for pi and probes."
"i say yes! finally one nice idea regarding mining and macroers. what would i like to add that it is really not necessary to merge all roids in the belt in one big rock as it gives an abuse: number of miners of one corp/ally/gang/alts shall be sitting on the most profitable veins while everyone else will be forced to have tiny pieces as their \"meal\". what is really affordable is to make asteroid belts dramatically wider at the space. make bigger rocks(as topic starter propose) just to replace ten of present stones with one(this can free some server resouces). what would i personnaly like to see is the asteroid belts around moons or planets. it seems to be interesting to have some minable \"saturn rings\". also this sort of mining can be hardned with some gravity anomalies wich will affect ship to be towed inside belt or to a planet atmosphere where not so easy to maneuvre or even dangerous to be. (just reminded me the x-3:reunion). making a game inside game is awesome i support fully. more control, more action, more profit - these three can resurrect live mining and bury macroers."
"having recently stated play a mmorpg that has mini games to gather resources, i think new players will not be frightened, but they will not be enticed too.a mini game is good if you can gather a significant quantity of material in a few minutes, but the current mining operations require hours of gaming. a mini game where every few seconds you need to \"calibrate your laser\", \"point your laser on the right spot\", \"cycle your laser for the right time\" will become annoying and boring very fast. so to compensate for the extra annoyance (and real player unwillingness to do minigames for a long period) you would need to increase yield. but if you increase yield even an inefficient macro or a sweatshop worker paid to stare at the screen for 8 hours will get more rewarding and they will own the mineral production even more than today (and btw, from my recent experience, a mining minigame will require much more communication to and from the server, so more lag).so, unless it is done very, very well, i am against mining minigames."
"not supported.ccp doesn't do mini-games very well. pi is a perfect example.ultimately defeating the macro is in our best interest, but probably not in the best interest of ccp since. it's subscription revenue and nay once has there been a post from ccp expressing concern or desire to combat the problem.slug it out in null sec or find a new profession in imo, i yielded empire grounds to macro's a long while back. the only viable alternative i've seen in the past that would be feasible where ccp wouldn't have to spend a money on is is moving empire belts to grav sites, with a very low level scanning requirement. like one scanning probe to pick it up. you could probably kill off some macros that way, but again the absence of ccp's comments on the subject leads me to believe its a revenue over fraud."
"i was on the csm while the old system was in development. we had no real input."
"weren't there supposed to be things like treaties and game mechanic enforced rental agreements? or any changes to the sov system? i seem to remember a promise along those lines. something about how they would continue to update and improve the new sov system."
"lots of stuff went wrong in the creation of the sov system.. so a lot of features got dropped. i think if ccp took another crack at it, these bad things aren't likely to happen again. we just have to convince them it's worth it to try."
"oh yea, forgot to +1, 100s of millions of hitpoints are dumb."
"~o~"
"i support ccp at the very least iterating on ideas touched on when discussing sov changes in dominion."
"sov mechanics really need a change atm huge blobs are the only way to do sov warfare :("
"i'd love to see what documentation you have that can support this claim."
"at the fan fest prior to dominion. ccp openly says they worked with the csm on the new sov system. even the csm sat there with a smug look on their face proud of it."
"nad that was probably their only involvement, sitting with a smile."
"so ccp and the csm lied to us. i guess i'm not really surprised."
"time to iterate, ccp..."
"i'm being t o t a l l y serious. your idea is great, and my suggestions are even better! never stop posting!:oh man, those mission runners and high-sec dwellers will have to pay big time! that will teach them not to ruin our game with their nasty carebearing ways!!"
"3 entries in that top 15 where decent the rest was blah.agree with all that ccp should pick the final entries themselves. also i wonder what the flips that pr expert at da was smoking.signed from here.cb"
"i keep finding ship after ship that are better designed, more in-line with racial styles, yet not similar to current stuff.so yes, the current 15 seem to have been picked totally at random. the point of this contest was to get good ships, not to let da \"judges\" pick random ships- they're obviously not qualified to judge if they've never played the game."
"the judging was just abysmal."
"this was a bs contest. this was my favorite ship.megalodonhow did this get chosen? no offense to the artist cause its a great drawing, but it doesnt fit with eve at all.bes**** poor job at understanding the eve universe."
"yeah, several of the semi's are a bit missplaced. also too me it looks like they didnt care much if the submission looked like a ship already existing in eve either."
"thats exactly what i thought, i loved the megaladon design but instead they give us a giant space vagina."
"well... in all honesty... we do need more giant space vaginas... you know to balance out ships like the thorax, the armageddon, the stabber, etc., etc., etc."
"hopefully you have the option to combine with a thorax to create besax which would then spew out drones until everything had died."
"imo, the whole contest is a disaster. ccp should have given more information on what they were looking for, and less vague.here's a good example, telling people it should look like it'd fit into eve is pointless, because there's very little in terms of common ship design. an amarrian ship looks vastly different than an minnie ship, for example. rather than posing a chart, they should have made a list of things that should be included, like engines (rather than star trek style nacelles) and things not to do.it probably didn't help that the chart they posted includes all the ships in the game including sleeper models, talocan models, and jovian ships, none of which are public and none of which are likely to become public.the second problem is that they didn't make it clear what they starship will be used for; for example, if i posted an amarrian factory ship, would they discard it because they're not looking to make 3 other empire ships of the same type? are these ships going to be standard models or one of gifts? all this information would have helped focus the design efforts of these artists towards producing better ships."
"i didn't even bother to follow the main of the competition, and looking at it now i'm kind of glad.it annoys the hell out of me that practically all of the semi-finalists seem completely ignorant of eve's own art style or back history. i'm glad they put the tornado up there after all, without it only the only ship i could even remotely imagine seeing in space would be the tsunami. too many flashy lights without a single familiar shape that i can relate to any of the factions. aside from the 'advertising transport', which is pretty much the iteron.lots of good art sure, but almost nothing i would want to run into in the game."
"pathetic!ccp should have judged all - da blew it.serious competitors summarily cast aside - it's insanity.they admitted to not reading descriptions or even having knowledge of the game - fail"
"this kind of rudeness is why we can't have nice things. if you think da sucks, imagine what that community thinks of eve online right now?"
"when i first saw the little box at login advertising this, my thought was \"oh dear, this is going to end badly.\""
"just my 2 cents.ccp, next time, please use conceptart.org for this contest instead."
"if their feelings are hurt or how they perceive the eve community has no bearing on the argument that, in general, the semi-finalists are heartily agreed to be disagreeable. this was a test (whether intended or not) to see if the people of deviantart were compatible with that of eve online."
"that is a cool site! i would have suggested:"
"supported, even with tornado in there this has been a **** poor contest and the da staff are clearly ******s."
"if this contest had been run on either of those two sites you would have had some fantastic, mind blowing entries produced by professionals in the field and eve would have ended up with an incredible looking new ship. on the downside though you would only have had about 50-100 entries as most people would have considered the competition out of their league. since this was largely a marketing exercise the point was to garner publicity and enthusiasm from as many people as possible, the choice of deviantart does make sense. it was a good plan, there are many fantastic artists on da and some excellent designs were produced. the plan went south because the da judges failed to pick from the best entries, instead picking semi finalists seemingly at random."
"supported. there are way too many amazing entries that lost to completely un-eve-related designs.basically, da's judges don't know eve. we know eve. we should vote on them ourselves, or have someone else who knows eve, (a dev/designer) do the selections, and then let the final 4 up to a vote."
"/signed/supported/agreei officially hate deviantart now.the entire top 15 needs to be re-selected by a more professional, competent, and eve-knowledgeable source."
"so the whine is that entries were judged on aesthetics and the official posted rules rather than \"omg, i'd totally fly that!\"? i must say i rather like the semi-finalists, nice spread of various styles .. sure some wouldn't really fit into eve without some pf shenanigans but considering the crap ccp came up with for the silly special shuttle and other 'gift' ships i doubt that is a hindrance.snippet from rules:you would have to go way off the track to not meet those criteria (ie. adding legs and crap ).no support as its a pointless issue."
"1) take a closer look to all the other entries(not only most popular), you will find far better ships, even more original, better fitted to eve standards, with better presentation ecc2) if you read the rules you will find also in the beginning:how you missed that? but also in the contest article:"
"if people of eveonline would be compatiable witheach-other, we would not have trolls and wars, but that's what makes eve fun."
"i vote that a new type of npc is being created so i can have fun blowing up something deviantart-related over and over and over and over.that \"pencil\" ship was better than the stupid \"battlecruiser\" someone threw together in half a minute."
"/signedthere are far more beautiful ships that actually fit into the eve universe, and for that part, creations that not only looked beautiful, but also had thought behind them.giving us some lame excuse like \"our views differ\" makes me wonder why deviant art was chosen, and makes me wonder why the hell they didnt atleast study eve online in order to make more informed decisions.in short, **** deviant art, and let ccp judge the best ship (they created all of the ones in game after all.. and those are pretty nice. if deviant art created the ships for eve, we would have flying roses and fedex boxes.)"
"supportedanother (additional ?) way to limit the \"i win\" button effect of the use or not use of drugs would be to give as side effect the impossibility to train skills for a certain amount of time after you have used it (hard to learn anything when you step down after a drug trip) this will much more make ppl who are rich thinking twice before using drugsanother (additional ?)drawback of using drugs could be the possibility to.... die, ppl with 22m sp will not be bothered , ppl with 103m sp, a little more"
"thanks, everyone, for your participation. voting is now closed so i can prepare the proposal for the next meeting."
"this is an awesome idea"
"i really don't understand these anti-drake posts. for three years the drake has been \"lol drake! noob! let's kill 'im!\". nothing has changed with the drake since it's inception. no wait. there was a change. it had it's passive tank nerfed once. other than that, no change to the ship.drakes aren't that powerful. it's still just a bc with a good tank and mediocre delayed-effect damage at long range. it's not particularly fast and has a ridiculously high sig. the ship is just popular at the moment because fleets of battleships are fodder for fighter bombers. once the fb changes go thru in incursion, you'll see fleets of amarr bs cutting thru drake blobs like nobody's business."
"this. the drake is fine."
"no."
"well, people would like to enjoy their overpowered crap as long as they can, thus you can't really expect them to vote against themselves.it's pretty obvious fugly drakes are that popular for a reason. and the reason is they are overperforming for their cost (if a tech1 ship has any )."
"sending the account holder a \"you were banned for rmt activities\" message is giving away their hunting tools? really?"
"support. banning without a good reason being presented, is like the bank taking your house while you are sleeping in it. also people that are innocent don't have to spend so much time sweating over what they didn't do."
"due to the proliferation of an abundant amount of super carriers showing up all over the place, due to being op (over powered), there needs to be some balancing done to them.super carriers will no longer be allowed to launch fighter bombers unless they have the combat seige module activated. this of course means a new module would be introduced that would go in the high slot. it would use strontium just like other seige type modules. it would last for 15 minutes per cycle. only when in seige will a super carrier be allowed to launch fighter bombers."
"think we need to wait and assess the fighter bomber rebalance thats upcoming before thinking about something like this.now if the rebalance doesnt work then maybe this might be a good idea but as it stands i think we need to wait and see.not supported for now but could change after the rebalance."
"i don't really support this. the problem is the fighter-bombers, not the actual sc's."
"with the upcoming already announced rebalance of fighter bombers already on the plate for incursion any other changes to super carriers would be premature.not supported."
"ecm \"you've lost your target because you are being jammed.\"ecm \"you fail to target anything because you are being jammed\"web \"your ship has been webified\"sensor dampening \"your sensors are being dampened\"we have audio cues for losing shield, armor and hull, why not for ecm?"
"this would make me want to fly my falcon again.please impement audio griefing via ecm!"
"maybe if you could enable/disable this."
"+1and more voice notifications :)"
"more voices, more interaction with ship's computer, more fun! me supports.ecm/sd/td: \"we are jammed.\"tp: \"our signature increased.\"wd/ws: \"our engine is disrupted/scrambled.\"web: \"propulsion power drain.\"nos/neut: \"our capacitor being drained.\"also want to see big icons atop of hp bars with icons, notifying me that my ship is under jam/damp/painter/web/scramble etc. b/c i'm tired to search these small ewar icons in the overview and majorly just do not have time for this."
"nice idea! would be very useful. +1"
"ow, yes! please sound, and a big icon \"shoot the mother******\" for the entire fleet!"
"isn't this already part of the low-hanging fruit ui tweak list? thumbs up regardless."
"i support this."
"yea, tried these in a mission once because i kept getting damped down to nothing, ended up shooting at some mission structure."
"i'm supporting this. :)"
"supported.an end to camo-painted spaceships!"
"as an artist myself... i have no idea what they were smoking to think camo was awesome.well okay, not jungle camo."
"completely agreed.since the models/skins are being reworked at a very slow pace (scorpion), maybe they could rework the camouflage skin each time they update a model/skin and eventually camouflage will be phased out."
"its comming and is already available on sisi."
"not quite. i checked and they did in fact add much more resolution options, but one still can't freely set window size by dragging the borders. but it's a big improvement already."
"it must have been disabled.it was up a couple of weeks ago.i have many screenshots of it :)"
"it would be nice to be able to nick name your jump clones.this way you could see what you buffed the clone for \"at a glance\".a quick assessment of the clone without using the drop down list.i.e. mining clone-combat clone-etcor the level of installed implants+3 clone,+4 clonemaybe use it for a hint at what is stored in the hanger at that station or the ship type that clone utilizes.or just for fun \"the slappy jack clone\".peace"
"pretty much this, so the feature is being implemented. rejoice and be happy."
"if that's the only reason, they are insane then."
"lol :) +1, just because i like that ship :)"
"the nighthawk is an amazing ship if you know how to fly it right...not supported."
"/troll/ bull**** /troll/not supported.learn to fly the ship."
"so, this is a project that has spanned over the past 6~ish months. lately you may have seen this proposal on some other, player driven forums. i've finally decided to formally propose it. due to the obvious problems of posting 4 pages and then re-formating for it to look properly, i've uploaded a pdf version to a well known file site.these are obviously meant as suggestions and there might be some oversights.enjoy."
"true, but ganking takes up more slots then a single point. to get that kind of rof i would have to sacrfice several low slots.at with blasters your at a point blank and the mega only going 800-900m/s (average with mwd) you have about a good 15-20seconds before your out of point range. and when you decide that you probably at about 50% armor or maybye less depending on the situtation. so yes running is probably a option but takes only a single point to prevent warp, and with the mini show range guns having 20+ km falloff. they'll be hitting hard the entire time while the blasters only have a 10km falloff."
"+1but i think you make this too complicated. prices in eve-store in $ and plex. that's all."
"just about sums it up!"
"protip: she left because he hates eve and would much rather be somebody in puzzle pirates. once another trip to iceland or cv padding wasn't on the cards there was no reason to stick around.the carebear vote got played."
"we have run across this again recently as well.while a cov ops was observing a pos in system, they noticed that there were quite a few ships moving around behind the pos shield. that of course is nothing new. but the problem is a number of them were being flown by pilots that were not showing up in local.a petition was filed along with screenshots but to date i am not sure if anything was ever done about it."
"burden of proof should be on ccp who are the ones to investigate and take action.the petition was closed by a gm due to \"lack of evidence,\" and as such ccp have determined that no violations or bugs caused this particular persons client to malfunction in such a useful manner.and that is exactly my point. fraps, logs and screenshots are easily faked and as someone pointed out, banning does have a finality to it. it would be equally problematic to accept screenshots or fraps from customers as evidence and elevate it to proof.ccp would need to do some sort of verification themselves and that would require their gms to think about what their role is.in this case, i could simply state that the circumstances surrounding this case points to the gm in question protecting the person(s) rather than investigating them. this is exactly the kind of accusations that prompted the formation of the csm in the first place.if these types of cases require investigation it should be a ccp employee doing the job. not some arrogant and biased misanthrope like myself. they simply decided to \"not look into the matter.\"this simple case of a possible repeat cheater is just an example. there are plenty of issues out there that find themselves in the limbo between 'bug' and 'feature.' gms keep telling you \"have you filed a petition?\" and the bughunters keep rejecting your petition because they arent competent or equipped to re-create the problem and thus it fails to live up to \"bug\"-criteria.it is exactly this kind of smug arrogance that ****es paying customers off. failure to react intelligently to inquiries is getting in the way of effective customer service.i have now made a few more people aware of a particular case and tried to make a general observation on the subject. maybe a ccp evaluation-team-jule-frokost can use the input. i am now back in game and unlikely to be posting more on the matter.just keep in mind, that an empty local chat is not necessarily empty."
"but this is exactly the point of my post and the first row of your reply say you aren't tackling it.you suggest that the specific gm that has replied to your petition is biased, possible, but then you refuse to use the instrument ccp gave you to get a second appeal against a biased gm simply because \"burden of proof should be on ccp\".appealing to a senior gm is there to get a second and hopefully more competent opinion on the possible exploit. appealing to internal affairs is there to confront a possible malpractice issue with biased gm.your refusal of using those instrument make your whole position that of a thin hatter saying there are conspirations all around him, not those of a rational person trying to resolve a problem with a probable exploit."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"lol!!!i don't think you will find that new wow expansion 'cataclysm' to be fun. maybe you can accomplish something meaningful there."
"i assume this decision is a result of ccp moving forword with plex for remap. while i personally don't have a huge issue with plex/remap i can understand people's concern for the game to move into full blown micro transaction territory, which i don't think anyone wants. your decision to get rid of everything seems a bit rash and or overkill but i imagine you've given it sufficient thought and i can respect someone who can follow through with their convictions instead of threats to leave the game to try and influence decision making. i've never interacted with you but always felt you were a stand up player who did great things for the community through your events and csm work. your presence will be missed. good luck with wherever your path takes you and fly safe"
"can i...have your stuff?also, thanks for representing the average eve player. you did a pretty good job."
"if there was a \"official\" breakdown i would gladly have quoted it. the \"probable\" 440 billions day are based on the mission reward payouts for bonus timer and base mission and the general rapport between those values for me and the mission bounties. if the average mission runners do more vs. faction missions (where there aren't bounties but only tags) or drone missions than me the part of the pie generated by anomalies, complexes and ratting could be higher, while if a large percentage of missions runners have a low level of negotiation (improbable) the mission running part of the pie could be larger (proportionally, for someone with no negotiation skill the bounties have a larger impact than the mission rewards).so 440 bills is what i consider a reasonable guesstimate. i doubt ccp will be capable of giving better data as the anomalies have deadspace rats like the missions. non 0.0 exploration sites have a low impact, while npc 0.0 ratting and exploration is subject to corp taxes and generally dominated by 0.0 alliances, even if they don't pay sovereignty in those systems. that are the reasons why i say \" alliances get about 40 bil in taxes\" and not 44 billions (10% of 440 bills), again a guesstimate, but a reasonable one. all inclusive it appear that about 2/3 of the sovereignty costs are covered by the taxes on ratting/anom/plexing alone (and the character doing missions in high sec are taxed too and the corp get the isk the same, don't forget that).then there are the other 0.0 activities that generate wealth for the corp an the alliance. so, no i disagree with you, a decently managed alliance has a lot of isk (both liquid and in assets). simply most of the alliances tend to downplay the value of the assets they own. the titans and capitals used by the corp members have a value and unless they have been fully paid back by the user they should not be considered a property of the guy using it. same thing for the towers, modules, stored minerals, ecc., ecc., ecc. saying \"alliances haven't hundreds of billions of liquid isk available\" don't mean they aren't rich.it simply mean they do the right thing and use the liquid isk to produce assets that will make them stronger."
"i don't believe that every sov holding alliance does this kind of thing. i know for a fact a lot of them don't the numbers roll together carebear alliances living in \"safe\" napped space and pvp alliances who don't rat all day and instead lose ships. you can't draw accurate conclusions based on the figures provided. in fact i maintain that it shows a distinct split between sov 0.0 (who have this huge isk sink) and empire/npc regions who don't have that issue. not all sov 0.0 alliances have corp funded capitals etc. it isn't possible to draw conclusions along these lines without more info. i disagree. not all alliances who hold space are using it to make isk etc, some hold it for strategic value and have to find the isk from somewhere else.without a better break down of these figures the conclusions are very speculative."
"can't let dv have all the spotlight...possibly practical pos performance proposal (csm)"
"supported."
"you sound frustrated mate...fearing that you might lose easy profit?and to use your mirroring eve with real life:rob a bank and get shot - do you really think that your insurance will even pay one cent of the hospital bill???"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"***** no."
"i really really like the idea of using ammo to change the way hybrids work. however, i want to point out that \"base\" shield and armor dmg stats are not what you think they are. they are only what your average dmg will be against non-modified t1 hulls based on the amount of each of the dmg types you are using, not the minimum amount of dmg you will do against either shield or armor. in order to raise those \"base shield\" and \"base armor\" dmg stats you will need to change dmg types. if that is what you are proposing, i vehemently support this"
"looking at the hybred turret issue, i decided to analyize the basic numbers of the turrets, such as damage mod, range, capacitance use, cost per shot, etc, and see if i could paint a detailed picture on what is wrong with the blasters. i know you've moved into looking at changing the ammo, but let's step back and take a look.a few assumptions i am making (if you refute these, then this analysis is not for you):-we are looking at all the t2 models. the data for each has been pulled from the wiki.-price per shot is the average cost for all the t1 ammo available.-laser price per shot is 0 isk/shot (assuming crystals don't break, like faction ammo or t2)-we desire the range of blasters to be between the autocannons and pulse lasers in both falloff and optimal respectively.-railguns should have close-to equivilent damage as a respective beam laser.-there is an issue with the ammo's current arrangement.t2 turret analysis spreadsheetif you don't want to read the spreadsheet, below are my conclusions:-blaster optimal is doubled; falling halfway between pulse laser optimal and autocannon optimal.-blaster falloff is increased by 36%; again, halfway between pulse lasers and autocannon's falloff. -this leads total ranges for blasters to fall between pulse lasers and autocannons.-railgun damage mod is increased by varing degrees (usually .4-.8 modifier) to get a damage closer, but still weaker than, beam lasers.-the capacitance drain reduction on ammo is inconsistant, and i changed it to reflect the laser crystal capacitance drain reduction.however, the biggest problem is cost per shot. while hybreds appear to pay less per shot on average (not a true average; since i didn't have the time to weigh the averages based on market movement of each ammo type), it is obvious that most hybred users choose antimatter, the most expensive type. this means that hybred users pay about the same as projectile users (if not more, due to the focus on a single ammo type, which increases demand, and thus prices), and also has to pay with capacitance, which takes power from other, more vital, systems (such as ewar, propulsion, etc). the ammo has no special effects compared to the others. lasers can switch quickly, but it takes 10 seconds to reload other turrets or change the ammo in there. projectiles have tracking bonuses based on which type, however, there is no such bonuses for hybreds. an alteration of the ammo is needed, but what that alteration is needs testing. (suggestions include rate of fire alterations (5%), falloff bonuses (5-10%), or maybe a various selection of small bonuses that are different for each ammo type, like tracking (5%)).i hope these numbers help.edit: made corrections to the spreadsheet."
"for the keres i'd propose- higher dronebay and -bandwidth (50 bay, 25 bandwidth)- change the tackle boni to something not used already by 'ceptors, 'dictors and recon- add a bonus to ewar drones (5% or 7.5% bonus on their respective effects)for all ewars i propose- smaller sig radius- standard targetting range of at least 60km (ewar ships are back row ships, not front row grunts)- reduced cost to produce(- bonus to cloaking devices like blackops...don't know if that would be out of whack though; would imply an additional utility high slot)"
"the keres and hyena, have a tackling bonus. this puts them in direct competition with inties. for the keres, remove the tackling bonus, and instead give it better effect on the damps, or better cap usage for them. i don't know what to do about painters, because painters are so full of fail. the whole lineup needs a complete redo/rethink."
"the hyena could be a nice tackler/ anti-tackler, just extend the webifier range bonus to 30-40% (currently 20%, recons have 60%) and reduce the signature.there is no reason, that ewar-frigates of any kind should be 60% \"larger\" than other frigates. i would propose to cut that to 30%."
"the compare tool is a useful in-game tool, but it's limited to ships that have variations and ships that you can drag into the window from your ship hangar (that is, ships you already own).sometimes, the user will want to compare ships that don't have variations. as one example, the different versions of the iteron cannot be compared because the mark ii, iv, and v don't technically have variations, so they can only be included on the compare tool if you already own such a ship and can drag it from your ship hangar into the compare tool.as another example, one cannot compare the myrmidon to the vexor and dominix without owning a myrmidon already because the myrmidon does not have any variations.proposal: give all ship show info windows a variations tab, even if the ship itself doesn't have any variations.alternate proposal: add to the right-click menu for inventory items (including ships) an add to compare tool option."
"shiftheaded approves of this proposal,"
"this particular point is more difficult then you might think, i'm fairly sure the actual application of damage is fairly far removed from the weapon firing effect as far as your client is concerned. when you fire, your client more or less blindly produces a turret firing effect that isn't actually tied to the damage the attack may cause (or not cause), and simply repeats this blind production of effects periodically at the rate at which your weapons fire. this is easily noticable when you cancel your weapon firing, sometimes your client produces an extra fire-effect when your turrets didnt actually fire (and of course did no damage) and actually continues to display firing-effects even when you're disconnected.im uncertain if this is the case with incoming damage/effects, but i suspect it may be handled the same way seeing as how your ship getting hit and the damage being applied/displayed often seems to be off-sync as well (and you continue to see incoming effects while disconnected as well). this manner of handling is likely done to prevent any lag from being blatantly obvious, effectively shunting the lag into a desync between effect and damage rather then having the time between the effect+damage seem to be inconsistant.. as well as probally saving a small bit of bandwidth in the process.tl;dr there's no association between a weapon's graphical effect and the affect(damage) it has as far as your eve client is concerned."
"i want"
"supported. fleet command ships need upgraded. these are t2 battlecruisers.... t1 battlecruisers shouldn't be owning them in stats and so forth. t2 cost more...t2 bc's require a **** ton of skills. they need to be better, plain and simple."
"this comes up every year. every year it gets ignored by ccp. it will continue to be ignored, as all other ballance issues usually are. look how long it took lolrockets to get looked at.still, supported."
"this!some people just want to get some sp so they can fly their titan sooner...not supported!!!"
"not supported.while i understand the redundant nature of this skill set, they provide a valid mechanic to the over all game by providing both a path for more specialization in a specific area and ambiguity to how many skill points any one character might have."
"for players(lime me) who have their learnings maxed it's very small difference.but for those who have something like 4-3 for few years it's not fair - they wasted so much sp arleady just because of laziness and now every noob will not loose sp because of this.well, i think such people doesn't care much about their sp anyway..."
"honestly, if there comes a time when sp can be bought or gained faster using money or isk, i will not resub."
"wtf ccp?"
"for the love of god no"
"so many good looking entries that look like they belong in the eve universe. i'd like to know if ccp plans on introducing a new race to mesh with one of the non-eve designs."
"not going to happen. would cause too many legal issues from the 15 that made it to the semis. never mind the pr ones.pick the best entry from the 15, incorporate that ship, award the other prizes.then go through the full list of entries and see which other ships should also be included. with any luck they can get a full racial set.i would definately be interested in seeing a full list of the valid entries, with the da scoring for each, though"
"was i the only one who did not see this coming?"
"translation;"
"i really like the idea. i considered using boosters/smuggling/making them for a long time but it just didn't seem that worthwhile in their current state, too costly for the benefits (if any) and not enough demand to sell for the amount of effort.may not be an entirely accurate viewpoint but it seems to be common.under this proposal though i could definitely see myself using boosters, just like a jumpclone, overheating, implants, rigs etc.as for the after effects, i'm liking the idea of reduced learning (makes a lot of sense too, going cold turkey has a damn negative mental effect).a kind of similar effect to using a jumpclone with no implants, reduced attributes and all that."
"as someone who uses combat boosters on a regular basis, there are a number of points here i disagree with. some of your ideas are good, but certainly not all.productioncombat boosters are currently difficult to produce. this is mainly due to the raw materials being seeded poorly, and a terrible (investment+time)/return ratio. more access to the possibility of production in low sec is a good idea, however denying 0.0 residents any and every opportunity to be self sufficient is bad. therefore my point is simple:- reseed booster materials through both 0.0 and low sec with a focus on even distribution.booster consumption and penaltiesunder current game mechanics booster penalties are tied to the ship they are consumed in, not the pilot. this means boosters consumed in a place where the users can quickly switch ships results in no penalties at all. this also means side affects are only associated with one scenario: a pilot in space quickly takes boosters in an attempt to gain a combat advantage.the above scenario is exactly the time and place a penalty, if any should be applied. boosters can give a significant advantage in combat and there is immediate risk involved. this is how it should remain. alternatively, the drawback to using boosters in station or at a pos is that it may run out before a fight actually occurs. i have experienced this many times.the op suggests that current side affects are a major reason why combat boosters are not used. to put it bluntly, this is untrue. they are not used because of their costs. they last for an hour or less and the best boosters can cost upwards of 50m each. the skill books required to use them effectively are also prohibitively expensive for new players -one in particular costing anywhere from 200m to 300m.the op then follows her reasoning to suggest ideas of addiction and longer negative effects associated with boosters. this is one scenario where \"realism\" is not useful. simply put, it would not be fun. there is enough in eve that is not fun already. the current system gives you something immediately, and penalizes immediately. its fun. there is risk. it works. the point:- negative side affects are good as they are. if anything, simply apply one or two of them, not all 4 under \"worst case scenarios\".- make the booster skills cheaper.more boosters better?more options is always a good thing. however, boosters related to mundane tasks such as mining or production seem just plain silly. the point of boosters now is that they give players the opportunity to gain an advantage which may allow their internet spaceship to survive while their opponent's does not. it may work, it may not, and either way you had to spend isk on it. it is this uncertainty which makes boosters interesting and difficult to use -which is what i expect was the original intention. if boosters were ever added which improved the success rate of low/no risk activities they would simply become another factor in the equations of profitability. such a reliable boost would become required and standard. this is not desirable. even the op listed boosters becoming standard as a \"con\" in her original post. the point:- boosters should continue to be something only useful in high risk situations.conclusion! what is the damn point of my long response!?!reading this post, the assumptions, premises, and conclusions provided concerned me.- first, i question the experience of the original poster with boosters other then the production phase. why is a csm delegate spending time on something they are inexperienced with? shouldn't they be spending energy on other issues for which they are knowledgeable?- second, some (not all) of this csm delegate's conclusions are faulty, based on poor premises, and could make problems worse instead of fix them. their ideas do not appear well thought out.in this case i applaud your effort, but not its result.mj"
"boosters need buffs, but not like this, smuggling should be worth it, as well. i think if ships designed to smuggle, they have reduced chance of being scanned by npc's get them into highsec to use during missions/mining to increase dps/yield"
"so what happns if i die in the middle of war in my 500 million dollar ship, my ship is suddenly out for grabs? what is a cap pilot uses it? what is a titan pilot dies? (would be awesome though)"
"thisnot supported at all. (i use boosters for almost every one of my ships, your proposal would make them mandatory to compete.)however, i'm all for making the gas clouds and bpcs easier to obtain in low sec."
"i know it's not popular to introduce new skills (i don't like them either), but the core proposal would be better if there's a skill that shortens the detox time instead of making detox boosters. the reason is simple - detox boosters will be always used. why make them when you can add a new skill?otherwise, the core proposal is actually good. supported."
"good idea !also, i would like to a better access to cosmos ladars. gaz is the main problem. when you live in alliance, you have to deal with many red standings to go through other cosmos regions. it's too hard for an indy booster producer to get nebulae's access. there's not enough cyto ladar available; so make the ladar with random gazes.o7"
"people don't stay forever in a corp usually. but the enter some bpo's which they owned themselfs.well if there is an arguement or the ceo decides to kill the corp one will loose his bpo cause of the override to unlock the bpo.so just introduce a private lockdown, where you place a bpo into the corphangar and only you can unlock it again."
"not supported in this form, since it would be more logical to revamp the whole thing and allow players to start industrial jobs from their personal hangars instead of corp hangars (if the player have appropriate roles ofc.)"
"well no problem to me. would achieve the same thing. so if you have a bpo in the privat hanger of the hq you can right click it and give production rights to the corp. the bpo will be locked as it needs to stay at the same station. but a simple \"withdraw corp rights\" un-locks it."
"corp theft doesn't need to be nerfed. not supported."
"no, it just is too quick and easy to skill it to be good, other bc's need a lot more sp's invested to make them good, ie you not need to skill for t2 missiles to make them great, other bc's weapons systems you should be t2 or you're just as well off in a blackbird being useful."
"i'm sure 90% of people who want drake nerfed have never actually flown them. even in small 15-20 gangs most of sub bs targets pop before your missiles reach it! what to do, shoot secondary? that's splitting damage, a highly undesirable phenomenon in a fleet! what the hell for do you engage drakes at 75 km? send cloaked covops at 5 km from them, warp to him and see who wins. or just have ceptors in a fleet who will orbit battlefield at 200 and warp primaried target to him. in this case drakes will to 0 dps to you. stop eft warrioring and understand that eft stats don't show real dps. large amount of missile dps is wasted in the space, without doing any damage at all. missiles need time to hit their targets and higher damage at a range is compensation for that! i'm not saying here that drakes suck but people who built passive drake in eft are now talking like it's some i win button which it's notby the way it would be a good thing to introduce missile disruptors, together with missile enhancers"
"your post is not creative - it's a rant because of the tactics that was most likely used against you with success. first we see \"armor hacs are overpowered - nerf them\" then \"drakes are overpowered - nerf them\". if a fleet of 100 rifters was assembled and some good fc made it work, you would cry about rifters.also, 90% of your op was in form of a question. that's not a well structured suggestion that shows how drakes are overpowered with detailed performance comparison with other same level battlecruisers, a suggestion how to solve it and with included pros and cons of the change.on a more personal note, in solo pvp a hurricane or even a cyclone can and will kill a drake if using the right tactics. the drake is not overpowered.o/"
"sending info on \"why\" somebody was banned (ie what the supposedly did) is not sending them \"how we find out\".supported for openess and transparency."
"you have been banned for rmt, abusing a glitch, griefing noobs, ect. is fine."
"all npc bounties rather than pay directly into a character's account, instead become a lootable credit note that spawns in a wreck.this credit note can then be converted to isk at an appropriate npc station (that is hostile to the npc that the note came from). possibly also player outposts.corporate tax would be taken at the conversion stage.result and purpose of this change would be to make eve more like other sandbox pvp mmorpgs that traditionally have pve produce gold, which that can then be taken by force via pvp. making pvp/piracy more profitable (currently it's mostly just an isk sink activity in eve) and pve more risky."
"god no, please no not ever.as a 0.0 ratter i really do not want this to happen ever. you have any idea how slow bs/carriers are? and then i would need to move those tags or whichever to the correct boring highsec space too?not supported"
"i'm not supporting this abortion of an idea. first, you are paid the bounty for destroying the hostile vessel. it doesn't make sense for you to loot some rediculous credit notes from the wreck. second, it would make an already repetative activity even more boring for no good reason and force people to do huge amounts of unnecessary traveling. horrible idea. i don't get your pvp argument either. pvp is profitable if you are good at it or hunt pve ships. currently you can take stuff by force and a pve ship won't stand a chance against a pvp ship. that kind of pvp will be always profitable and i don't see a reason to boost that. in normal pvp most people will still lose money even after your change. i also don't see how it would alter pve in any significant way to be more dangerous. you already lose almost all engagements against pvp ships and pvpers will always try to kill you when they can. it already is dangerous or perfectly safe and your idea doesn't alter that in a significant way. it just makes pveing even more bring and cumbersome than it needs to be."
"this does not make sense either in character or as a game mechanic. while i agree that piracy could do with a buff (in principle, i rarely yarr) this won't work."
"killing ratters is not pvp, it' sjust killing a ratter......."
"oh god it would be like doing tag missions all the timenot supported"
"no."
"then move to wormhole space and enjoy your game. since this is a sandbox, every player can choose how to play his game, thus you have two options - sleepers and regular rats.not supported.edit: forgot about drone regions that are available in known space (if you don't want to live in w-space)."
"supported for highsec missions. since the loot nerf, missionbears lose almost none of their potential isk to loot thieves except in missions against npc factions that drop tags. this would essentially extend the tag system to all highsec npc's."
"to play devil's advocate for a moment, this could be implemented as looting something off the wreck that \"proves\" the rat was killed like, say, the pilot's body. deadspace overseer's personal effects already work in this manner. that would make more sense lore-wise.that said, not supported. rat bounties should stay as they are."
"qft"
"supported."
"i would like to propose that customs offices be given a corp hangar and that players get the option to export their planet mins to that corp hangar.i would also propose that corp hangars be atleast 100km3 in size.and that additional corp hangar space be rentable aswell."
"supported."
"needed"
"they do not work well in pvp. i have hit gang members when i tried to use these once after being ecm'd, not to mention structures and everything else but what would have helped."
"+1, and..."
"urban camo makes a tiny, tiny bit of sense. jungle camo? desert camo? who greenlighted these hideous concepts to begin with? if you want camouflage for a starship, make it a death black shroud with a few randomized sparklies. if you want to show us it's t2, faction or whatever, then give us something super ornate and pretty to look at - for example, anybody remember the scrollwork and detailing on the gold magnate?"
"indeed! didn't we tell them this and they didn't listen when they redid the navy mega"
"my ship can't be detected while i hide in that bushes over there because i have camo painted ship.oh wait... there are no bushes"
"lawl, im sure ccp get a lot of reports of players accusing the other side of having an unfair advantage. investigating something like that would be time consuming and there's no reason to allocate resources on the word of some players with a clear agenda and no proof."
"no no no. i am not against the escalation solution, but if the junior gm closes and continues to close petitions related to a problem, then it is practically impossible to get in tuch with a senior gm.i did not refuse, nor did i suggest that people should refuse to use escalations and/or csm to solve seemingly unsolvable problems. you failed to understand the issue. perhaps i am not being clear enough, but if you think the issue is one that can be solved by escalations and csm then you are missing my point.here is an example: some guy is sitting in a system doing whatever. he is keeping an eye on local (maybe 'cause he once lost a ship by not doing so.)with no one in local apart from himself, a ship appears next to him, lights a cyno and voil<U+FFFD> he is dead.now. from what i gather. the gms and just about everyone else is content to drone mindlessly \"he can just fraps it for proof otherwise lol.\" in effect, people are telling this hypothetical person that he should run fraps and record each and every single second of game time just in case someone decides to breach the eula and abuse bugs or features.that is not realistic and it is a fair placement of the burden of proof - this is the problem i am trying to raise as an issue.now the blind csm fanboys might not get it, but to them one can easily raise another issue related to their favorite cry of \"proof!\" even if someone recorded fraps or a similar visual record and even if people took screenshots, it is possible to manipulate such evidence. so if ccp decided to accept 'evidence' from other players as proof, they risk becoming easily manipulated judges.and that is why i am suggesting something like an overhaul of the whole gm/petition process before rising volumes squeeze the last remnants of \"fair\" out of the rotting carcass.again, mr venkul mul. i am not interested in discussing the particulars of the alleged cheating. i was not there (sleepmode,) when they blew his ship up. i was using the circumstances surrounding the petition-refusal to raise an issue that i believe is universal and affect all types of petitions. ccp have shifted the burden of proof on to the customers and increasingly make use of the \"close\" button to rid themselves of problems that require an actual effort to solve. in the case of abecirkel, the gm in question should have handled the complaint as a witness statement and added it to the already large pile of similar accusations made against this particular player.naturally the petition system as a while receives petitions that need to be ignored. arguing that some of them should be closed without investigating due to their \"time consuming nature\" is not really a proper or intelligent suggestion.if i spot something i know to be erroneous behaviour i am armed with a multitude of choices. bug report, petitions and community guides can help me establish what i am looking at and where i should go with it.if a tcu is vulnerable when it should not be, i can raise the issue and help a gm investigate by providing further information as needed. if the gm simply refuses on the grounds that 'no proof was given other than a statement about a vulnerable tcu,\" then the problem wont be investigated, verified or cast aside, nor will ccp get to gather further information. instead they are likely to perpetuate a culture among their underling gms that such petitions can be ignored"
"by the way as far as ccp ignoring stuff on the basis of \"manipulating evidence\" goes, i am pretty sure that only applies to things like reimbursing player ships, if its to illustrate a bug or something, their bug reports seem to readily accept and encourage supplying them with screenshot or video evidence whenever its relevent."
"mazzilliu as a csm i think you should let this one go to some of the other csm's. it doesn't matter how valid your points may be, but you have a tag on you that places you on the 'exploiters team'. it would be professional to leave as fact is that you may not be 100% objective.point of this whole thing is that said person has been exploiting before, banned for 3 months (that's what i heard anyways), he comes back online, he uses the exact same exploit (or at least doing whatever he's doing to do the same: disapear from local) and gm's won't even check up on it. by rules a person that has already been banned doesnt have that many rights in this game, but it looks like this guy has.i know that there was no recorded proof, but honestly after a guy has already exploited the game that many times it shouldnt be needed for us gamers to hunt him around eve trying to get proof. it would have taken a gm two secons to spawn himself one system from him. jump in, see that he's ratting but not in local. end of story.it's just sad that some people hunt for holes in the game to exploit it to it's fullest. even more sad ccp doesnt fix said exploits or at least perma ban ppl that does use/make them.btw: i asked to get my petitions escalated but i haven't heard a single thing on my petitions since then. it just went silent and times out."
"mazzilliu you just illustrated one of our points, the faith in the system and especially the csm<U+FFFD>s is seriously failing by your meddling.you have just disqualified yourself by even posting since youre not unbiased. you even try to ridicule our complaints you are supposed to be the player communitys champions.but by your actions you just prove one of our points. ;)"
"perhaps if these 'witness accounts' were more dependable and impartial they would be better regarded, because frankly players have demonstrated as a whole that they cannot be trusted to remain a neutral commentator or whistle blower or divorce self interest from what may be a legitimate claim regarding actual bugs or exploits. in short, they mad.this is aside from the track record ccp has thus far in dealing with supposed and real exploits. the policy of silence and of punishing the whistle blower has only negative consequences for the game and its community."
"lawl, abecirkel. good one."
"tdlr: those meanies in pl killed my macro raven now my but hurts bad"
"nnnnnnnoooooooooo.....i will never forget the awesome stuff we did in iceland! you should post that video where we protested microtransactions in front of parliament, seriously funny stuff. i am glad to have met you and it makes me sad that it might be the last time i see you.you should seriously consider keeping at least one character though, just in case you change your mind over the months or years and decide you want to come back. i mean the isk you get from selling your chars will do no good for you anyways."
"a lot, and i mean a lot, of empire people want to pew pew in lo. they also want to be able to rat/mission back up their sec status quickly.make agression security hits less onerous, much less. same with ship kills. raise the hit for pod kills though. lower the gcc some (and make it more accurate).this alone will generate a lot more losuck activity."
"perfectly true, but vuk position (space holding alliance are poor) is as much speculative has mine. if an alliance hold space only for its strategic value there are 2 options:1) it keep it because it protect its money making area (and so arguably the alliance get a positive wallet for doing that)2) the alliance get a \"positive\" return that is not linked to isk (i.e. they are only interested in combat pvp and they don't care because they get their isk another way). there is the third option: they are incapable of doing 2+2 and continue to spend isk they can't afford to do somethink the don't like, but then they aren't a well managed alliance and will die fast. honestly, can you give me a reason to keep sovereignty in the 0.0 area if: - you don't get isk ratting;- you don't build capitals/supercapitals;- you don't mine?you can do it for love of pvp, but i don't see the need for sovereignty in that situation, especially the costly stuff like cynojammer and cynobridges. edit:yes, they can be holding sovereignty hoping to get the positive isk inflow later, as all the starting alliances/corporations do. but using only the starting alliances as the metrics for alliance riches is like using drake pilots with a month in game as the metrics for level 4 mission runners."
"i initially wrote wall of text but then i realized its extremely inconsistent and would proly be boring to majority of you guys. if there are people who are interested i am more then happy to organize the \"roundtable\" or podcast or whatever we found appropriate for the number of people who are willing to participate in the discussion. especially cause there was so much stuff going behind the curtains of the new eden i think its finally time to start unveiling some of them. anyway i will open a new thread for that. back to the topic. if put certain alliances aside where their income if coming mostly tru either hordes of macro pets or just pets, or tru people dumping ****load of rl money into game via rmt and/or gtcs (white noise as current example), we have alliances whose income is coming from eula and tos complied sources.i am pretty sure that if someone mention rich 0.0 alliances - bob (it now) or morsus mihi will be the first 2 coming to your mind. i am willing to share with you information that will easily beat any of your arguments about 0.0 being huge isk generator, and 0.0 alliances being filthy rich to the point they are breaking the game. anyway as i will be extremely busy in rl for the next couple of days i would appreciate if you guys will drop some ideas how we can organize the \"roundtable\" maybe for next weekend and if someone wants to step up and to help me directly with it i could even make them on regular basis (maybe biweekly) and i will make sure to invite other alliance leaders to participate as well.edit: sorry for grammar/spelling mistakes i am in between the meetings"
"in real terms, account sharing will only get you in trouble if it causes an issue that leads to a petition where ccp have to act. someone skilling for you on occasion, or even quietly borrowing the account for a session or whatever isn't going to automatically get you banned. obviously this isn't an official statement."
"it's a pragmatic one though. look at the simple logistics of the situation... while i'm sure ccp logs the ip addresses that people use to sign in, so what? someone with a dynamic ip or who logs on from the road on business trips, or whatever, isn't exactly going to catch a whack of the banhammer. same for someone whose brother in a different city signs on and swaps skills while the person who owns the account is on deployment in iraq or visiting thai brothels, or whatever. and if someone is living in your home and using your account, there is pretty much no way ccp will ever know. unless, of course, someone does something really, really stupid. so the 'no account sharing' rule is there to bust people who cause problems for ccp by sharing their account with people who then go and do bad stuff.it's also a tax on stupidity, which is good."
"you can even discuss how to improve the petition process for issues that do not immediately fit standardized solutions.before discussing, you may want to consider the qualifications and biases of each csm member and remove any conflicts of interest from the room."
"top thread to the top!please make pos less of a pita to use."
"i absolutely support this. concord shouldn't give suicide-****ers insurance, it doesn't make sense. i'm not anti-suicide-gank. i'm not even pro-carebear. this idea just makes too much sense not to support."
"signed. ccp wise up and fix some old bugs, which clearly this is."
"i say absolutely no. while 'cosmetic only' sounds innocent i have two concerns:1) the first thing ccp mentioned after saying 'cosmetic only' was re-mapping. that is not cosmetic, it allows faster training - derrrr!2) once you open something like this up, it mushrooms. looks at taxes. when the first tax hit am sure most people said something like 'oh it's not too bad - it's only a penny on the dollar!'... and now look at taxes.i already see people making additional 'plex for stuff' suggestions, such as painting our ships etc., while that one is at least 'cosmetic only' you know it won't stop there.am sure many will disagree, but am trying to look at the long-term as i care about the game."
"nobasically the problem with this on the part of ccp is that they are looking at this as money. ccp is not generating enough money to develop content, pay rent, or buy pizza. i think ccp should fix what is wrong with this game rather than trying to patch their money hole with crap like this. the reason why ccp is not generating enough money to support operations is the player base is not growing sufficiently. this is evident by the recent offers for second account activation at a discount for active players. the current model is that new players give eve a try then quit weeks to months later.why?because there are sever things broke within eve for new players to get hooked. gank in hi seclearning skills to learn skills faster is lame (for new players)the overall lack of trust in the community - scams!the time it takes to train for anything decent to fly is prohibitively long to the average adhd youth.basically, most of the rants on the \"new to eve\" forum that have been recycled over and over are a concern to the growth of the player base. try giving in to some of the more protective aspects of the new players so they are here long enough to get hooked. why? ccp has done a good job of hooking the players that have the fortitude for investment over the long term. the available market for others who have similar staying power is rapidly shrinking. lets face it, how many potential players do you know personally that are willing to spend 6 months learning how to fly a digital space ship into pvp/pve interactions? one, two? that's the extent of people i know, and i invited them to play to grow the player base. yes, they still play the game too. do your part and help grow the player base so ccp won't need to resort to microtransactions to fund the pizza parties.otherwise, ccp will be required to make changes to fund the basic operations of the company.these may include microtransactions, low sp = gank proof 1.0 systems that new player start in and wh into the real eve after completing the tutorials, increasing the monthly cost of the game (bad idea), change the initial skill set to include many of the learning skill already complete, and/or sell the game to a publisher that will not care about the community over profits, etc.ccp has indicated that they need and are willing to do something to increase their revenue for profits/liabilities. we need to do something as a community that helps maintain the player base so ccp is less stressed to execute a bad idea. for every scam/gank/blob that causes a player to quit playing, ccp is that much closer to making microtransactions a reality."
"i am totally supporting this. i think the fourth bonus should be in relation to the fourth bonus on the heavy assault ship counterpart.vagabond gets a bonus to max velocity, so make the jaguar get a bonus to max velocity.munnin gets a bonus to tracking, give the wolf a tracking bonus - it has no web.ishtar gets a bonus to drone damage and hitpoints, give this to the ishkur, you may think its overkill so maybe just the damage bonus i guess.enyo, i guess would get a bonus to mwd capacitor.the hawks current shield boosting bonus does not relate to the cerberus. i would suggest giving the hawk a rof bonus like the cerb.the harpy is missing a bonus to shield resistances.the retribution is missing a rof bonus and a midslot if it please ya, the midslot, i guess doesnt matter as much if ccp wont fix it.the vengeance is missing a rof bonus.this won't make them overpowered, only better ships."
"supported"
"oh yeah i support this"
"supported!"
"supported!"
"i lol'ed"
"care to elaborate?"
"oh. you were serious? mah bad."
"like i said, care to elaborate?"
"i am not supporting this. i don't fly gallente, but i've been butt-****ed by them before. blasters have high damage and low range. that's how it is. gallente get drones man! the ishkur for example, yes blaster may get kited by a jaguar, but the drones will still do dps to a jag/inty who orbits past 20k. ishtar? same ****ing thing. if you want longer range on your guns so bad, use railguns. i'm sure hawk and vengeance pilots wish they had 5 light drones to field. every ship has a problem, every ship has strengths."
"i am sure that the rest of the gal frig lineup also wishes they had 5 drones. i am also sure that the rest of the gal cruiser lineup wishes it had 125mb of bonused drones.or are you suggesting that we leave blasters alone and just give all gal boats large amounts of bonused drones?"
"no. i'm saying gallente are fine as it is. if you don't like the enyo, don't fly it. simple as. plenty of people use those ships with success."
"so then why did you try and justify gal boats being fine \"because of drone\" in the first place again?"
"great proposal!"
"defo supported man. too many assault ships around, not enough mini-hugginns."
"i support this!i love flying frigate hulls and i've always wanted to find some use for the skill points i have invested in eafs."
"this issue was passed 5/3 and will be presented to ccp"
"i'd like to thank deidre for spending a considerable amount of time with me refining the concept and clarifying some ambiguities.thanks also to the people in this thread who supported and critiqued the idea.and finally, props to ed from hr for taking the first steps towards improving his education."
"i like the second proposal more. which means i like it in the first place. supported."
"i like the second proposal too. if this gets enough support, i'll raise it."
"i like this idea of a compare tool. would make life a lot easier...as long as ccp doesn't screw up the implementation. which it almost invariably will."
"good idea, supporting."
"both i support"
"support for the 2nd one.i have something else in mind for the 1st proposal, but i can't really explain it as i want to. ><"
"second proposal supported!"
"i don't support this. not only will it create more lag (won't it?), but it is also unrealistic to have big long engine trails on a ship. if i am wrong, by all means reply to me so i may support this topic."
"signed."
"tl;dr: add a 7.5% range bonus to the legion offensive - covert reconfiguration to bring it on par with the 5% increase in rof or damage provided by other covert ops pilots.i'll admit it. this is a whine for a buff. but i think it's warranted. let's take a look at the various covert ops subsystems available to our tech3 pilots:loki: +5% rof. adds an extra 33.3% dps by turning 5 effective turrets into 6.66. no additional capacitor consumption from higher rof.tengu: +5% rof. see loki. proteus: +5% damage. straight 5% increase, turns 5 turrets into 6.25. again, no additional capacitor consumption.legion: -10% capacitor use per level. no affect on damage whatsoever. 5 turrets = ...5 effective turrets.you could argue that the legion's bonus would allow it to use higher grade crystals and do more damage...except it ignores why people use lower-grade crystals in the first place: range!give the covert legion a second bonus, in the style of an apocalypse, to increase its optimal range. it does not have to be as strong as the liquid crystal subsystem -- even a 5% bonus would be enough to make us want to put lasers on our covert legions instead of the monstrosities that autocannons became during the projectile buff.as a personal opinion, i think it should receive a 7.5% bonus to stylistically mirror the apocalypse. this would let the covert legion use x-ray where it previously used standard, achieving a 25% damage increase -- identical to the proteus and inferior to both the tengu and loki. this tradeoff is, of course, only valid where the user can trade range for more damage -- if the pilot is already using multifrequency, there's not much to be done. this is stylistically interesting, balanced, and differentiates the amarr covert ops from its competitors.if people feel that strongly that two bonuses isn't justified for a covert ops ship, then simply swap the capacitor use bonus for a range bonus and stick us with the higher cap drain. or provide a only a 5% range bonus and reduce the capacitor reduction bonus to 5% as well. i'd just like them to remember that the tengu and loki get a 33% damage increase, and they don't have to pay any capacitor to fire their guns. and they have selectable damage types. and that they either have superior tracking or ignore it entirely.however, something must be done, because the current state of affairs is ridiculous. if minmatar pilots were dealing 75-80% of their hybrid and laser brethren, they wouldn't have been yelling on the forums about it, they'd be storming iceland with 200mm-vulcan autocannons crafted from chicken wire and duct tape. but that's precisely what is happening with the legion covert subsystem, and apparently it's \"okay\" because it's \"not a combat ship in that configuration.\"fight for our freedom, amarrian brethren! throw off the shackles of our capacitor reduction bonuses! revolt!"
"supporting my own proposal."
"supported"
"yes"
"amen, one of the reasons i am leaning away from legion is lack of this balancing factor, this would make it a contender again in my mind."
"supported"
"supported, autocannons belong on minmatar ships."
"how does +5% rof per level * 5 = 33.3% increase in dps (ignoring drones)"
"the covops system on the legion really does need a little boost, so yes."
"to those who claim that you don't \"have\" to train learning skills, that instead of min/maxing, you should just have \"fun\".i would respond that you don't \"have\" to fit your ships correctly, that you can just undock in a fail fit and let me pop you, and just have \"fun\".if you are the type of person who would rather win a pvp encounter than lose, and you plan on playing eve longer than 6 months, you must train your learning skills first. to do otherwise is as stupid as getting into a fight with a failfit.get rid of training skills, and put the sp spent into a pool you can assign to other skills."
"i agree.do not forget that new players receive a 100% bonus to training up to 1.5 mil sp. if you calculate a compensation for older players to spend points, then this should be taken into account also. most of us used this bonus to ramp up learning skills. this means that i lost out on faster leaning of fun stuff. 3 mil sp for the learning tree and 1.5 mil was at 100% bonus. then the compensation should be 3.75 mil sp to spend on whatever we want, 5 mil if you feel generous for the cost of the advanced books. 3 mil sp for new players, and remove the 100% bonus."
"welp, not that i've used the software in nearly a decade, but my degree was in cgi and yeah... deviantart screwed up, badly.very saddening."
"+1 this was a an epic fail.while browsing content i feared that there are way more than 15 designs that are worthy of winning and after i saw da semi-final list i was like wtf? really there are max 2 designs that are ok others are some bullcrap that wont"
"holy mother of bad sportsmanship guys.\"design i liked / i made didn't win, so clearly the whole thing was rigged and the judges were idiots and we should go it over\"not supported"
"absolutely 100% supported"
"summary of blog:more fluff and bullcrap. apparently a simple \"logo\" on your ship could \"disqualify\" you?!?! and this was just one of her many fail misinterpretations of the contest rules. so she gives a myriad of other reasons why all the cool ships were disqualified and the really crappy ones were chosen. however, after reviewing the crappy top 15 again, i have seen that some don't follow her own strict misinterpreted set of contest rules! fail! the bottom line is, they feel they know art better than us, they chose a bunch of crap ships and now are coming up with lame excuses as to why it's this way. i guarantee you if ccp artists had been judging they would have chosen a top15 of nothing but the best-- best eve-like ships, best drawn ships, best art, everything. deviantart sucks at judging plain and simple and i still feel that truly were extremely lazy in choosing the top15 and simply chosen out of the most recent submissions. this danielle person writing these blogs is on such a high horse. she needs to just admit they are way too incompetent to truly pick a top15 for such a great game as eve and that their sense of art for spaceships is wayy off ...and she needs to admit that ccp needs to take the whole contest over and pick a new top15 cus deviantart sure as heck can't do it right."
"/signed/supportedre-judge it ccp!!!!!"
"it needs to happen. you want a pr disaster? let any of the final fifteen make it into the game. i've already stated publicly that i'd hunt these ships. if ccp lets these 15 go through it flys in the face of everything they've said concerning incarna over the past year and why they're doing what they're doing with incursion to boot. there are so many entries that should be there and aren't. only 3 of the 15 are game worthy only 2 of them are able to be made. if we do what you suggest. you get two minmatar ships. thats it. and they aren't a new type of ship either. i voice my overall support for something being done. it has to be drastic and it has to get da's attention.this was in da's latest 'statement' on the situation. and that tells me all i need to know. experts? i'd be surprised to find if one judge even played. and even on artistic grounds. the 15 that were chosen were not even close to being the top 15 submitted. speaking as someone who's debated this on gen discussion i'm ****ed generally and i hope ccp takes real action here. there were several submissions (one of which da has pulled down! because of its comparison to the others...) that have been fully ignored for whatever reason despite their quality.now i must take issue with one thing: the **** and vinegar being thrown at the artists in question. one of the artists in question left da for good others are getting bombarded. players who are doing this need to stop. they created what they would want in the game. there are technical and in some cases artistic reasons why they shouldn't be in the 15. but none of them show a lack of talent or some of the other things that have been thrown around. i personally didn't put an entry in because i would have ran into the same problem as the peregrine (which has been pulled down by da..) i'd have gone for more than 6 pictures and the time involved for me to make it was prohibitive. there does need to be a change and these 15 chosen should have at least some compensation for the ****storm that has erupted on them. it is a storm entirely of someone else's making. i do protest the obvious ripoffs and i do protest the non racial ships but i will not make a personal attack on these artists. and you shouldn't either. as an artist everything we do is subjective. it is entirely up to the person looking at it to determine what they believe. we try our damnedest but in the end its the person who looks at it that makes the decision. ccp stop this before it jumps off the tracks. please do not force players to take extreme measures in the existence of one of these semi-finalists in the game. re-judge this contest yourselves and get a proper set of ships in game."
"supported.to the deviantart artistsi have enjoyed perusing your art. there are many talented people, of varying levels of skill, displaying their art there.i wish you all the best and hope you understand that most of the comments i and others have left are directed primarily at deviantart mangers/ judges, and should not be taken as an attack on you the artists.to deviantart managementi will shortly be cancelling my account, never to return. this is my (albeit small) protest at what i consider to be an utter mockery of a contest.the judging of this contest was a joke, not to mention an open insult to the artists themselves. failure to accurately describe or clarify the rules was unprofessional, failure to apply those rules equally is unforgivable.this entire competition has been a shining example of poor organisation, suspicious judging and truly offensive public relations.to ccpi sincerely hope this experience has not damaged the possibility of similar competitions in the future. there is a wealth of talented people who would love to see their dream ship added to the game, and i feel eve could benefit greatly from this. should you (ccp) decide to hold this type of competition again, please consider hosting/ judging it internally so as to insure that both the organisers and judges are competent to make the necessary decisions. as it appears that regardless of how \"professional\" the judges at da may be, in this particular case i would in no way consider them \"competent\".peace."
"****ing signed."
"i agree that !"
"signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"dont know if any one else has brought this up, but it would be nice if ccp would give us skill books to help with reload time. cause there are skill books for lock time, range, rate, but not reload, which just kinda seems lop sided."
"don't fix what's not broken.i don't see the point in it to be honest."
"supported.last september, i started a thread here for some ideas to revamp the booster system. not sure if op saw it, but lots of similar ideas.to those saying no, you can't argue that boosters aren't used enough. just because you use them a lot, doesn't mean they are used in the amount ccp desired upon implementation. a more dynamic system than the current one (addiction mechanics, etc) would help breathe life into boosters.also, a lot of you may not like this, but i personally believe that all booster related stuff should be moved to low sec (except mykoserin, keep that in high sec). give boosters the boost they need and make the gas/bpcs more available and you might see more than 1% of the eve population using them."
"not supported, leave the taking and usage of boosters as is. the penalty/reward for consuming boosters is perfectly fine."
"yes, more drugs please"
"a topic says it all.those skills takes a lot of time to lvl v, it's not a problem, but there is almos no point to do that, except for some refineries.it's just seems not right.maybe a solution for this is to do something with refineries, so only with all affecting v it's will be no waste.also subsystem construction skills have a same problem, afaik."
"simple solution to that and make mining more worthwhile. downgrade the empire station's refinery efficiency from 50% to 33%. i picked a random 33%."
"or you could, you know, just not train them if you don't need them. just because a skill exists doesn't mean you have to train it, you know."
"exactly"
"someone has never lived out of a pos tower before."
"what? this is madness!"
"high skill reqs, differen sub systems and an appropriate price tag would make it practical..."
"one idea: specialized exploration ship. i don't like the t3 cruiser configs.1 special high slot which takes a specialized module. this module has codebreaker, analyzer and salvager combined. this ship would be the only ship that can fit the module. cruiser- or battlecruiser-size hull. comparable dps to those, 6 hi slots, 1 for specialized mod, 1 probe launcher, 4 weapons.few mid and low, 3-4 of both. this ship should be made in a way so it doesn't do too well in pvp.bonuses to salvage, codebreaker and analyzer chance of success, 5% per level trained."
"maybe we should fix the problems with the current t3 cruisers before introducing more potentially broken stuff. although, i would like to see more t3 ships, frigates/destroyers especially."
"the problem is, the whole game needs to be fixed and ccps track record shows that in 5 years they might fix something that was broken 7 years ago.they need to strike a balance between fixing issues and introducing new content, seems like they are doing neither right now. not at a decent pace anyway."
"well since the only real reason to train destroyers 5 right now is light interdictors or if you happen to be a destroyer enthusiast, and that we have several dozen frigate hulls as it is...why not t3 destroyers? middle ground between frigates and cruisers price wise/performance wise, and a new reason to train destroyers 5. i have no idea as to bonuses, skills, etc, but this seems reasonable to me."
"cool story bro...seriously, i think a blend of t2 and t3 may get us there faster. there are subsystem slots available in the ship fitting screen for every ship, but not active. why not allow t2 ships to be upgraded with t3 subsystems? this can work similar to the rig slots, but removable. there would need to be a limit of the available space for subsystems to make sure it's not too op, like rigs. this will allow for a massive content and customization increase in the game w/o the need for new graphics or new ship types. after that, i will be crying for new ship types like everyone else."
"at one point they had t3 425mm railguns (and i think 1400mm arty) in the unpublished section of the db (sisi). not sure if that is still there, but iirc it gave an increase to shield hp (flat amount not %)and had ever so slightly different dmg or range base stats. perhaps that was just to make the crystal ball gazers go crazy with speculation though v0vi agree that t3 frigs would be pretty dumb insofar as the market is already saturated with unused ships in that hull size. if however they made all t2 frigs t3 in nature (ditching all the current hulls) it might be viable...though i imagine a lot of current producers would be ****ed about this."
"drake is better."
".we all know that there are many posts on how to fix the perceived problems with learning skills. this is a different take on the issue. specifically, how to increase the attraction of the learning skills to players. i propose that a new skill be introduced into the game that when trained provides unspent skill points to the player. call it over achiever, or something like that. the way it would work is to have 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25% of the skill points generated learning anything to be awarded to the player as unspent sp. take for instance you want to lean forum trolling v, which is 1,000,000 sp. (obviously an easy skill because everyone thinks they have it learned.)if you have over achiever to level v, then after learning forum trolling v, you would be awarded 250,000 unspent skill points. the points would be calculated daily and awarded during downtime, but only after completing the skill learning process.the oa skill should be hefty on learning (8x) and cost massive isk to get. prerequisites:all basic learning skills to vall advanced learning skills to ivlearning vthis may generate excitement in the learning skills once more for getting them up quickly, and eliminate the groaning for elimination of the skill tree all together. w/o the oa skill, the skill tree will become history fast from all the *****ing on the forums. thoughts? forum trolling v players?"
"might as well support my own idea."
"at least it's a new idea."
"i like it in so far as to say maybe.what about those who have 60 mil sp? this is not going to mean a damn thing to them.not that they care, or do they?"
"i'm new to eve and hate the learning skill tree.i like this idea."
"there are good ways to get rid of learning skills: remove them, refund everyones sp, increase base attributes by 10 or so.this isnt one of them. it doesnt help players in any way to get over the tedious process of learning skills that only remove fun from the game. even worse since you made it expensive it mainly helps alts and older players, newer players dont get anything."
"the point is not to get rid of them and keep the game we know intact. a blanket +10 to all players is not keeping with the core mechanics of the game system. if isk is a problem, then just lower it until it's reasonable for newish players.no it's not for the very new players, but it makes learning more of a game mechanic, and not a grind. tech iii learning, if you must have it described differently."
"the core mechanics of the game are: you fly spaceships, your character trains skills in \"real time\" to level out the playing field between the time-rich and time-poor as far as character development goes.awarding free sp for gaining sp is not any more or less in keeping with the game mechanics than removing the learning skills altogether."
"we've got an interesting problem here: ccp has fundamentally declared player owned stations to be a corporation-grade asset. however, you can't do anything useful with a blueprint (a private asset) without tower to research it in.i mean, sure you could use those nasty npc stations...even *gasp!* going to lowsec if prices got too high, but...that's not as efficient!hrm. maybe there's a cost to that efficiency? ahh, right -- the difficulties that go into fueling, defending, and maintaining a player owned station, from both outsiders and insiders.tl;dr: corp theft is fine, i want more tears over stolen bpos in my login screen!"
"let's think about this for a min...you could deny the loan to the corp and foster some power through need. they need you to manufacturer items that only you have the bpo to get it done. this in-turn gives you power and sway in the corp directly dependent on the level and use of the bpo. you don't need to be a douche about the bpo and use it like a tool, that never works out in the end. best advice is to do your best to manufacture the hell out of what the corp needs, so they rely on you. if you have a disagreement with some other corporate members at some point in the future, the corp will take into account your usefulness in making a decision to settle the dispute. if you're not a douche, then the corp will favor a reasonable decision. if you are a pita, then you lose. with no power come no responsibility... keep the power close and use it well."
"proposal passed 7.5-0, with some items deleted (of which some may be re-raised as specific proposals."
"a good addition to the game would be the ability to trade a plex card for a new paint job on you ship. i would suggest the following:one plex would equal 20 paint job points. we will call this pj points for short. so,...frigate = 1 pj pointsdestroyer = 2cruiser = 4battle cruiser = 6battleship = 10carrier/dreadnought = 20titan/suppercarrier = 50now the different paint jobs could have tiers you need to unlock to get to the better and better pj's. so let's say a blood raiders pj would be like a tier 6 or something. each tier requires a certain amount of pj points to be spent to unlock it."
"another topic about a microtransactions... don't care :)"
"micro-transactions in this game shouldn't exist at all. plex is okay because it turns into game time, but using plex for anything else shouldn't happen"
"the issue isn't drakes, it's armor hac fleets and their overpowered logistics.with sig and speed tanking ahacs are immune to anything a sniper or rr bs fleet can do, and will **** them into the ground. with a massive buffer tank ahacs are easily repped by overpowered guardians, which are amazing cap stable and un-jammable with some cap transfers and eccm. the massive repping power of guardians, bonuses of damnations and lokis, the ahac fleet will destroy bs fleets.this is where the drake comes in. a fleet of drakes supported by scims, basilisks and assorted ewar, a large number of drakes is a viable counter to an ahac fleet (heavy missiles will hit webbed+tp'd zealots). sniper or rr bses will have no trouble shooting drakes, and a large bs fleet would probably destroy drakes, especially if they were fit for sniping, as drakes wouldn't hit that far. so why not use a sniper bs fleet to kill a drake blob? because someone will then drop an ahac fleet on your bs fleet and destroy you.it's become a silly rock-paper-scissors, with drakes>ahacs>bs>drakes.solution: nerf logistics - reduce base sensor strength and the bonuses applied to cap transfers"
"qft"
"the drake is as \"overpowered\" for bc fleets as the vagabond is \"overpowered\" for hit-and-run hacs, as the sabre is for dictors, as the rupture is for t1 cruisers, as the maelstrom is for alpha-striking, as the vigil is for fast tackle..."
"first of all, calm down and stop being mad. second of all, read test server feedback channel and keep up with the times buddy.i hate people who speak before thinking."
"support"
"its obviously that ccp should do that"
"gj anna"
"i think the right to know the reason is the user's right of nature."
"agree"
"good ida~bump!"
"if you call that \"documentation\" then there are no problem. in my dictionary this:mean that much more than \"you are a rmter\". it is interesting how you are playing dumb about the difference between \"documentation on why ppl get banned\" and \"explanation on why ppl get banned\". the former require some kind of proof the latter simply a clear accusation. this is an acceptable request, the op isn't."
"i totally support this idea, you dont have to give exact detail for what have done to make sure you worth a ban, but you still have to give a basic reason(rmt, macro, etc.) so that people who clearly did not done anything wrong is able to clear their name. however, if ccp want to add another c infront of their name then there is notthing we could do about it.i do agree that the op need to change the words slightly so that ccp won't get all fuzzy on the idea."
"good idea"
"good idea~"
"the ebay'ers and botters know what they did."
"how apt.supported.for glory and the 54th!"
"this is the right of players"
"sov grinds are already boring enough, no need to make the hp sinks a bigger waste of time.i would support this if:1. structures had 0 resistance without an enemy fleet present, so an unopposed structure would be dead (this would only be problematic during the first rf cycle of a structure when a surprise attack could rf something very quickly, once a timer is up someone will have time to repair). if people could cloak up caps in a safespot and get 80% resists it would be stupidly lame.2. the bonus is not applied by ships cloaked, docked or inside pos shields, but uncloaked and in system (perhaps lesser bonuses if the fleet is not on grid)this is an ok idea, but will not encourage a badly outnumbered fleet to show up"
"not supported.op wants to be able to steal the rewards from other players with his pvp ship while they are using a pve ship. making pve players scramble around to pickup sticks either in a slow mission boat or having to run back to station to grab a tractor boat/noctis when it comes out, in order to beat the 'ninja' from picking them up first.you want eve to be more like other games go play them instead. you want the isk/gold you'd like to steal from other players, do pve yourself."
"encounter sites use deadspace rats, so you are suggesting a 0.0 income reduction too. and your assertion is a false statement as the meta 1+ level items are still dropped at the same rate (higher rate actually for ab and mdw) and no common loot thief will spend time looting bulk meta 0 items."
"or they could, you know, just nerf fb's damage?not supported."
"considering that their explanation of what they're doing to fb's in order to reduce the amount of lag they generate pretty much stated outright that it was somewhat of a supecarrier nerf, give it six months. ccp may be fixing supercaps online (ha ha, yeah right, maybe make it at least so subcap fleets have something to do while supercaps are on the line) with this change.not supported due to announced changes already in development. i'm tired of reading threads proposing incredibly heavy handed changes to the game \"for the sake of game balance.\" subtle changes can be surprisingly effective, you know."
"supported :d"
"well, no. what we know for a fact is that someone was exploiting. what's suggested, often as a rationalization, is that a non-zero percentage of the 'sploiter's targets were, themselves, cheating. if folks really want to believe that the (good) white knight cheater was preying on the (bad) cheaters, that's up to them. but it's not exactly a convincing argument."
"no, what we have is conjecture by groups with their own agenda and interests many of whom aren't acting altruistically by any stretch of the imagination, or whom will never need 'proof' because the accused has already been tarred and feathered by those they are conceptually speaking in bed with. most people seem to take the view that bad people doing bad things to other people in eve is ok as long as all the bad people get punished in the end. unfortunately there are rather a lot of bad people that have expended a lot of time and effort trying to look like good people and far more than that number whom are good people that couldn't tell the difference in the first place.ccp can be the only body in this game that can be expected to run a proper investigation into an allegation of foul play. but, for an allegation to have any credibility that would warrant a time consuming investigation there has to be a degree of evidence supporting that there is actually something happening that shouldn't be. if players can provide this, they should. frankly, until an entire fleet of 500 starts being invisible in local the suggested problem is a minor one and looks to be limited to individuals that have grown too used to having an infallible unsleeping intel tool at their disposal that would in other games be considered cheating in and of itself.further, repeat occurrences seem to be in extremely limited circumstances effecting limited numbers of players for whom the inconvenience is minor. the lack of ready repetition of this phenomenon does not lend support to its existence.this evidence must be impartial either in source of by nature, hearsay spewed forth by people opposed in game to a another group accused of wrongdoings is understandably given short thrift.when ccp does investigate and find no evidence there is any wrongdoing this rarely assuages any self righteous accusers in favor of a witch hunt- they have already decided someone is guilty, they do not need proof and are quite capable of inventing the most convoluted ans spurious claims to further their chosen fantasy."
"it have discovered that sometimes the addressbook is bugged and fails to register when pilots have logged off. welcome to 2006. pretty sure this revelation doesn't warrant random people being banned for it though."
"is your claim really that the exploit was duplicated and then the exploit was rapidly patched because ccp didn't know that there was an exploit, but only guessed that maybe there might have been one? of course it was proven. the fact that ccp patched it out of the game shows that there was something that had to be patched out of the game. so it takes an entire 500 man fleet? if i just follow you around and repeatedly gank you when local tell you you're alone, you'd be cool with that, right? and the game ccp themselves designed is now \"cheating in and of itself\". and because the proven exploit isn't used on a grand scale, we should doubt it even exists at all?you do realize that, as rationalizations go, those aren't very good? no, that is an absurdity. it must be impartial in terms of \"source\". you've just creaetd a nifty loophole whereby evidence put forward by absolutely anybody in eve can now be discounted since nobody is totally impartial, even objective evidence has to be relayed through a non-objective source, and any evidence is suspect anyways. or can i photoshop you into a local chat spewing racial slurs and that'd be cool? we're left with a confirmed exploit that some folks now want to set standards of proof for which are herculean at best and impossible at worst. this is not an effective manner in which to police a game's structural integrity. quite a different story than a mere addy glitch."
"and again after saying this kind of platitude you go disproving your words or showing that you are ignorant of the way you should act. if the gm refuse to escalate and close the petition you can:1) open a new petition with another gm and ask to escalate immediately, citing the previous refusal as the reason;2) contact directly internal affairs and present a petition against the specific gm for the refusal to escalate beside asking for a senior gm appeal on the starting petition. getting in touch with a senior gm is a right, the low level gm can say \"i think it would not be useful\" to reduce the burden of the senior gms, but if requested he can't refuse. his refusing would only give more credit to your favoritism accusation the moment you get old of a senior gm or internal affairs. if you noticed i didn't say anything about the need of proof on your part (even if adding further informations is always helpful), i did speak about your apparent refusal to use the tools available to get the petition to someone that would check what can be checked in the logs. you always end your posts in the same way \"there is a constipation, we can't do nothing, the same gm is always stonewalling our petition, i should cry on the forum instead of contacting the proper authorities\". and that is exactly why people don't care for your message."
"it's a problem if that's the expected path. contact gm and ask them to look at the logs (which show nothing because the 'logs' are just a magic eight ball, but still...), get stonewalled. demand to move up the chain, get stonewalled. contact ia, wait for an investigation. etc. that seems, shall we say, excessive."
"i sympathise with the op, and of course, everyone on the csm wants to have exploits reported and fixed as soon as possible. the problem, of course, from the gm's point of view, is that everyone is an unreliable witness. playing the devil's advocate here:* the reporter may be lying.* he may be honestly mistaken.* the aggressor may be triggering the bug by pure accident, and as far as he is concerned, you were just afk and he walked right up to you.* or he might be a filthy exploiter.so how is a gm supposed to figure out what is really going on, given the limited amount of information available? what tools can csm suggest ccp build to help make these decisions?this is not a simple problem. for example, a database of complaints against particular characters could be abused by ill-intentioned complainers, resulting in an innocent player being banned.it occurs to me that one thing that might help would be the much-requested battle-recorder, if it recorded the actual packets going to and from the client. but even this would have to be turned on in order to catch the action. or perhaps something that just logs the packets since the last session change?but even if things like this could be done, there is a bang-for-buck question -- is it worth the time and effort to do this, as opposed to devoting it to fixing other parts of the game? arguably, it might be a good bug-hunting tool."
"it`s strange to say atleast that this keep happening good though that these incidents with 1 or more ppl not showing in local (local bug) has been all around the eve universe should be a headsup and more to the gm but since it aint that`s very strange and makes me kinda scared about where this is going.anyways im only left with 1 acc and thats cause i love the game - but this is going don the drain aswell hopefully the game will catch up again and show worthy of me playing it again.gotta say that this is a thing to keep me away from it still."
"whats strange about it? people have been bad at watching local and finding spys since 2003, now they have some big bad ::exploit:: to blame their failings on."
"proof or stfu!"
"the conclusion to this seems pretty self-evident to me. from usual experience playing a couple of years and reading \"csm subforums\" recently. imnsho the majority of petitions with regards to halfway important issues are about as futile as addressing those with the current csm. either way hardly any chance of success at best.otoh, no reason for a maudlin mood. once you realize this, you can spend your time in better ways... unless of course you do enjoy being trolled for your bothers..."
"tbh, i think that the eve community should demand a full investigation on cheats.there have been a lot of conspiracy theories about the sphere and its functionality. for example, there have been reports of entire fleets not appearing in local thanks to \"the sphere\". were these lies? was all the \"the sphere\" stuff invented by pl just to flame other players making them saying \"haxxxxorrzz!\" and laugh? i like to think that those sorrounding the power of \"the sphere\" are probably just rumors spread by stupid people, but those are very spread ones, and scaring."
"you have to reply for petition and say \"thank you, i'll wait\", if you are not polite and send message in every week it just closes automatically, so remember to bumb your petition next time."
"you are a liar. i have asked you for discussions before and you have turned me down saying i quote: \"you are irrelevant\"bottom line is vuk... you either dont have any good ideas on how to fix this game, or you dont want it to change.my offer still stands if you want to have a chat about this game some time."
"raw logs and voting summary on the csm databaseraw logs on the eve wiki"
"topic supported!"
"i could quibble with the details but the big picture is spot on. fully supported."
"notl:dr: good game ccp, too bad your killing it already.i will most likely be cancelling my subscriptions on incursiun anyways if plex for remaps is implemented.i have played bf:h and atlantica online and i swore to myself to never accept that crap again. not a single day.i know there are already plex for isk and that only works because the isk price is so low. 15 only buys 2 average pvp ships and thus you dont really feel a difference between good isk grinders and payers. noone pays the ~50 to outfit a real pimp ship. and if some people do, it doesnt affect the rest of us that much because there are only so few of them. especially so few of them actually using those ships to pvp.so it doesnt matter wether new items would be only of cosmetic nature.if they are sellable for isk (what i suppose they will) they will increase the prize of plex, even if you cant buy them for plex but for normal money because than less people will buy plex to get isk but those new items. that will (and can only) lead to a better toisk conversion rate (better as in more isk per ) thus making it a more viable choice to do. what will of course mean that pimped-by-actual-money-ships will have more impact on everyday-eve. what easily might add up to a point where you will have to pay to stay at the top.and while i have no intentions or skills to even get to the top, i will not keep paying a single  for a game where great success comes by more rl wealth.if i wanted i would still be playing bf:h.and exactly this will happen with plex for remap. it will greatly further the demand for plex which is capped at 1 per month*account currently (duh!).and no, you cant have my stuff, i will keep playing till my isk for plex run out and then i will finally be free again. actually that is probably a good thing about plex for remap.but i am sure ccp knows that, they even have hired at least one ex-bf:h dev.what is probably happening here is that ccp realises they wont be able to keep getting more subscriptions and thus now reached the point where there concern is no longer to make eve better and bigger (and thus earn more money from more players) but to begin milking those that are there.its quite a surprise that the very first iteration of this offers an ingame-advantage though. i would have expected cosmetic things first, then waiting till the new income from that shrinks, then add minor advantages, give up on those that wont accept that and wait again for everyone to stop buying it followed by less subtle advantages, again letting a part of the players go and again milking those that stay and so on.actually that is the way most mmo's will go. once you begin to offer ingame advantages there is no turning back as you will already have lost a number of subscribers.i know i sound bitter, yet, this is the end of eve."
"noi didnt think they were serious about this.plex for remaps alone is enough to quit.editi know noone reads the whole thread and quoting first page is even more useless.but you are wrong, what this changes is the demand. right now ccp gets no of subscribers*15$ everymonth. no more no less.allowing plex to be used for anything but game time drives up their prize in isk and thus give people who pay more than 15$ a month a bigger advantage than what they get today."
"no"
"as the op of this thread is a former csm and is in the process of leaving the game, i can only assume the worst"
"no."
"nojust to add...eve is the second mmo i played in my life,the first one was requiem and it was more and more crappy and finnaly died(or its close to dying now) because of microtransactions.imho in a pvp-centric mmo microtransactions are the game-killer.no no no and no... period.and just to add one more (off topic thing)...imo the whole of gaming industry is plunging into corporate (in a bad sense) comercial crap since...idk 2005, in 5 years there will be no more games me (or some of you ) will want to play on the market mmo or not-mmo...ccp.. stay unique..hold on to your dream."
"it is mandatory for every eve player to support this."
"besides the fact that they already have 4 bonuses, even if we wanted them to have 5 your \"suggestions\" dont do squat for balance within the class nor keep things balanced between af's and other classes.-3km/s(ab) to 5km/s(mwd) jags wont be balanced-350dps ishkurs wont be balanced-230dps hawks wont be balancednot to mention you dont give meaningful bonuses to the enyo, harpy, veng, or wolf once you take the major boosts the 3 top af's get.i assumed you had actually thought about all this and were just having a laugh because of your last line (read: trolling). like i said, mah bad."
"no. assault frigates only get 3 bonuses at the moment. i was suggesting the fourth bonus that this topic is proposing. anyway, maybe my suggestions wouldn't balance the class, but i was just giving suggestions for a fourth bonus of the assault ships in relation to the heavy assault ships. didn't give a meaningful bonus for the enyo? couldnt think of any. deimos gets a bonus to mwd cap use, so i suggested that for the enyo.the sac gets a bonus to missile rof so the veng should too no?the cerberus gets a bonus to missile rof so the hawk should too no?i'm not sure about the wolfs bonus because it was just something from the top of my head but the munnin gets a bonus to tracking as well as two dmg bonuses and a range bonus, so figured it made sense."
"the frigates that af are based on have 10 slots. 4-3-3 rifter for example. af give one more slot to them for a total of 11 slots. 4-4-3 jag or 5-2-4 wolf that actually strips a mid and makes you do a double take if you're used to the rifter experience.all of the af should get an extra slot - make it mid or low. 4-4-4 jag and 5-3-4 wolf. give the ships their missing frigate bonus - tracking bonus in the case of the wolf and jag. done.now this will obsolete the destroyer class but af and destroyers were competing for the same \"niche\" anyways. considering how broken destroyers are nothing should be balanced around them anyways."
"saying this over and over does not make it true. nor does someone makeing a thread saying this make it true.if you want to have a boost af thread fine. but lets not do it under the false pretense that they are missing the t2 4th bonus.fix'dand this"
"eas ships get t2 resists - and it's not mentioned as a bonus. most t2 ships get the increased resistances w/o it being mentioned. the af were among the first t2 ships and were experimental. i wouldn't mind interceptors getting the t2 resistances to be honest.i'll also make the point that most t2 frigates have been redone - and get a role bonus when all is said and done. this is not something where the wheel has to be reinvented. slap on an extra mid or low for all af. the retribution would have two mids, then enyo and wolf three, ect. slap on the missing frigate bonus. make the role bonus the t2 resists - and keep the speed and agility the same - that's more then a fair tradeoff."
"supported. bring back the sniper harpy!"
"you must all be stupid. t2 resists aren't a fourth bonus. the vagabond gets t2 resists as well as a fourth bonus. quit being ****heads. assault ships are missing a fourth bonus. give it to them. interceptors are missing a fourth bonus too. the \"role bonus\" which gives a 80% reduction in propulsion jamming operation cost, is absolutely not a bonus. recon ships get 4 bonuses as well as a role bonus. quit bull****ting."
"afs need some love, big time. fully supported."
"if a bonus is not a bonus then what is the definition of a bonus again?it seems to me that the only reason why you dont want to consider a role bonus as a bonus is that some ships get 4 regular bonuses and 2 bonuses from roles. having a 6 bonus t2 ship, several 5 bonus t2 ships, and some 4 bonus t2 ships implies that perhaps ccp doesnt beleive that all t2 ships should have the same number of bonuses...which undermines the \"geif af the t2 4th bonus\" argument. plain and simple the extra resists an af gets over and above the other t2 ships of its class is the 4th bonus. which is why i advocate for ccp putting it back into the description... so people dont get confused. the eaf's also get a higher base resist than other t2 ships and therefore, it can be argued, have more than 4 bonuses. which is fine because not all t2 ships need/get the same quantity of bonuses to be balanced./me awaits the incoming \"hahahaha i trollolololol u!!!!!\" poast."
"\"gold jacket, green jacket, who gives a ****?\"--happy gilmorei don't care how many bonuses we say af have - the bottom line is that they don't quite work. frigates with one or two mids struggle or just plain don't work. ships that cost 18+ million isk but pop when a cruiser looks their way don't work. ships that struggle to track other ships their own class don't work. i've plopped down my idea. ccp needs to get that **** sorted."
"man, the bottom line, for me, is that the jaguar should be more than 200m/s faster than the vagabond. the vagabond and the cynabal relate to eachother almost identically. so too, should the jaguar and dramiel. i'm not saying make the jag as good as the dramiel in every way. i'm just saying, make it faster. right now it is not fast enough for it's reputation as a kite-mobile. the jag is a mini-vaga, give it some more speed (not a lot, a little).the wolf is a gunboat. give it a tracking bonus.that's the way i see it, no need to give both the jag and wolf a tracking bonus."
"even the enyo gets a drone. and has a way better tank than the ishkur, brah. thorax has more drones than almost every battlecruiser (save gallente ones, obvs) , so stfu. that's why i tried to justify them because of drone. i didn't mean only ishkur and ishtar. the thorax makes up for the lack of drones with dps and tank. as does the enyo. look, i'm right, ok?"
"your not good with consistancy are you."
"first, only drone gallente boats are good: ishkur, vexor, ishtar, myrm, domi - they have bonuses for drones (ishkur has just big drone bandwidth). even thorax with his 50m bw is a bad ship. vexor has very good chances to defeat thorax.second, dedicated blaster boats are not good comparing with appropriate tier ship of other races. excellent solution. ccp please close this thread, blaster problem is solved!"
"i've attempted to go through most of the 19 pages here. i had an idea and wanted to make sure it hadn't been voiced before i threw it out there. first a definition -wrecking hits - they do up to 300% of normal damage on a target. they depend on a lot of different factors to happen. transversal velocity, weapon damage type vs. target resistances, tracking, ect. double or triple the chance that railguns or blasters get a wrecking hit. give blasters a slight tracking boost - say 10%. that doesn't look like much but it would increase the chance of a critical hit and give more damage potential. this would give hybrids a racial flavor. you're wrapping a projectile in a field of some sort and throwing it down range at insane speeds. you can visualize such an object going in one end of a ship and out the other. it increases damage that hybrids currently can do but it isn't guaranteed - over time you'd get higher dps. at the same time you're not extending range or making hybrids more \"lazor-like\" in order to compete with other races - you're unique.."
"not really, wrecking hits happen at 1% chance every shoot, and don't affected by transversal or damage types/resistances(beyond the normal calculations). that would only increase damage by 2-4% in a peek dps situation, a bit more in situations you deal less. however it is not even close to create a noticeable effect in the end.10% tracking is basically a useless change for blasters. it would be like adding 1% falloff to acs. no, it would not."
"i think part of the problem is that people don't know where hybred turrets should stand in the larger picture. everyone has different ideas. should they sit somewhere between lasers and projectiles in terms of the range bonuses? where should they sit with their ammo, and how does one tackle their cost per shot?the comparison i did earlier showed that blasters had about 1.5 times the optiminal range of the autocannons and 1.5 times the falloff of the pulse lasers; the worst of both worlds in terms of range. this does need to be changed; and i suggest the midpoint between autocannons and pulse lasers; 2x increase in optiminal and a 36% increase in falloff. i think this would handle a majority of complaints, but it still leaves the issue of cost per shot and their ammo."
"i threw \"double or triple\" out there to simply flesh out the idea. if it is a 1% chance for a wrecking hit - what about increasing the chance ten fold to 10% for hybrids? and leave the tracking increase as debatable?"
"i am good with consistancies. the thorax does have more drones than almost every bc. yet it does have a lack of drones when you compare it to say, a vexor, yet it does make up for this with a huge tank. moderated.applebabe"
"there was no blaster problem to begin with. the ishkur gets drones. the enyo gets another turret slot and more tank. pick one you nub. the vexor gets drones.the thorax gets a better tank and drones."
"that would be a 20% dps increase, that sounds a lot, however even with this you are left with the issues created by qr. in general i don't see any real reason to use one without the ability to pin down a target at point blank and hold it perfectly in place for any kind of medium or large blaster ship once you catch it."
"all of you are forgetting how much cap lasers consume if you guys want a blaster boost your gonna have to increase the cap consumption also"
"after the cap bonus it is mostly equal. also you need far more cap to move the hulls around with the mwd. in my experience cap need is actually higher for most gallente hulls under real combat conditions."
"are you saying the mwd's consume more cap when their used with a gallente hull?"
"no, but there is a serious difference in the need of mwding around with a optimal of 4.5/11km compared to 15/45km in most combat situations..."
"supported"
"one of the best ideas in ages.your woman"
"aye!"
"all of this would be awesome!supported!"
"yet another reminder today to secure our accounts under yet another \"wave\" of account hackings. perhaps the frequency and seeming ease at which these \"waves\" of account compromise are occurring should give some indication that eve account security is not adequate, and that placing most of the responsibility for account security on vulnerable users and their systems is not improving the problem. please support this and ask your favorite csm to encourage ccp to prioritize account security in light of these continuing waves. we need a breakwater, a breakwater made of authentication tokens :), and perhaps some \"no wake\" buoys."
"how can someone not support this?"
"more account security can't be a bad thing."
"i agree, i really miss them. if for anything than the sense of speed they gave.hoping to see them in incursion, otherwise wis maybe?"
"not sure if serious, but i'll bite.they won't create server lag, only graphic lag on your side. if your computer is already having issues running eve (or if you find them unrealistic), you'll be able to disable them from the settings menu."
"let's take a few examples. suppose you cut your cycle time in half (a 50% reduction). that means you're getting out twice as many shots in the in the same time. you double your dps.what if you cut your cycle time to a third? that's a 67% reduction, and it triples your dps.notice the pattern. if you get an \"x\" percent reduction, you get a 1/(1-x) increase in dps. this is why rof is preferred over raw damage increase, provided you can pay for it in reload time or capacitor use."
"supported as a legion pilot"
"wen jaibo, do you use the covert ops subsystem regularly? if so, what weapon configuration do you use? data is not the plural of anecdote, but..."
"/supported"
"i bet that when it come out everybody here will use it lol"
"wtf players?"
"wtf ccp ?"
"the cost of localfirst off thank you for spending the time to examine my proposal. as it stands local performs a multitude of tasks and simply works, with that said this idea is purely a mechanism to increase the depth of the game and by no means is it a necessity . . . i propose that null sec systems that do not have an alliance paying the bill to maintain sovereignty lose the attribute of local in said system. (unclaimed systems will not show players in local unless they choose to send a text transmission)why the compromise?with this feature pvpers can get the taste of wh space while carebears can retain the security that comes from having local as an intel source. it makes sense to not have local in a system that is not being maintained by an alliance hence the idea of lawless space.details: a system will lose the local feature if an alliance fails to pay the sov bill, removes tcus or if sbus are put in place to contest the sovereignty claim note: the actual moment when the local feature is added or removed from a system happens during dt.thank you for reading this idea and i look forward to the fruitful feedback.hiero,"
"going to have to say no on this one. it is your fault for not playing more. by agreeing to the subscription ccp has sold you 30 days to play the game. how you play it is up to you."
"i think the sov system should punish people even further for being dumb enough to participate in the sov warfare grind. there should be 12 reinforcement cycles and each structure should have 5x more ehp and randomly aoe jam everyone every 2 minutes. this way only the most dedicated will get land to control."
"i know your trying to troll and doing the worst possible way at it but,...this actually is not a bad idea. the only way it would work is if all assets and players were moved into low sec. then all player made stations removed from the game. all done over downtime. throw in a new sov system that the csm has not tainted with their idiotic ideas and it would do very well."
"i assume this is a troll thread since it has to do with sov and was author'd by a pl member.but i agree sov. needs work, so +1 anyhow."
"please iterate, +1."
"dominion will be a pretty good expansion when ccp finish it..."
"honestly a little research never hurt anyone. if you look all of these things you listed have been brought up before. some even being fixed in the next expansion that is a month away."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"agreed"
"its not fixing, its tweaking."
"you use lasers, don't you?"
"meh...i like it."
"missiles."
"no, he's a miner. look at his corp."
"as it stands right now the drake is all that and a bag of chips. it can have a great tank, great damage, great speed, great agility and great lock range. did i mention it can do all of that and still be able to tackle? well it can. while many have this assumption that several things need to be done to bring it in line with other tier 2 battle cruisers, the answer is very simple. only one change needs to be made to balance it.- reduce the drake's power grid and lock range by 15%.that's it. by doing so a pilot will have to choose between what tributes he wants to be great at. so if he/she wanted a good tank, good and good damage, they can still do that but they will need to use an afterburner instead of a mwd. want speed and damage? no problem. you will just have to sacrifice some tank.serious questions and comments and thumbs up welcome, the rest can **** off."
"supporting of course. another example is:you can still hit 85kms with your hml (heavy missile launcher). you will just need to use a middle or low slot to extend your lock range."
"no!the drake is just skirting the powergrid line already needing high skills to fit. you can not make a ham drake w/o awu already compared to all other teir 2 bc which can be fit with tech 2 weapon and tank at engineering and electronics 4-5.so what you want is to remove the ability to fly one is what your saying. because no one will be able to fit it for etheir job. your fix will break the one good ship for caldari completely. i will support this when they nerf all the other battlecruisers fitting.also how did you lose a dramiel to a badger!"
"while i always think your comments and ideas are always well thought out and in tune with things, in this case you could not be more wrong.just because a good portion of a races ships need balancing in no way warrants one ship to be incredibly op (over powered). i am currently researching the other ships and will present a fix to them when they are ready.this business with people thinking i can fly a badger or a dramiel is just silly. i love lasers. last time i checked caldari and minmitar did not use them. although some ships that have split weapons of lasers and missles/projectile could prove to be effective if the ship had bonuses for both. might get me to cross train."
"lame troll is lame. also, your topic has been extensively discussed here already."
"i have to dissagreewith all the nerfing that had gone around, it's become unfair to the players to nerf them periodstop nerfing ships, cause some whiny punk cant fly it proper or someone else flies it better... geezzzzzzseriously, work on new ships, and stop messing the ones that are out already to the point that they suck, example vagabonds... before they got nerfed, they were awesome... now they're just overprices wastes of training"
"first, it is not a troll. second, that thread is all over the place with no clear idea. my thread offers a simple and elegant solution to the problem at hand. thirdly, back to orange's argument about the tight fit, yes it is a really tight fit. but that really tight fit gives you everything. no other ship gives you great tank, damage, manuverabiliy, lock range and tackle.go ahead, name one, i'll wait......didn't think so."
"hurricane, harbinger, vegabond, zealot, armegeddon, apoc, abbadon, tempest, typhoon, maelstrom, nighthawk, slepnir, absolution.your powergrid idea will gimp it to much, it will die to easily every harbinger, hurricane and even myrmidon. so now caldari has no good pvp ships great job. like you said there are plenty of idea's, yours is the worst so far."
"i'm sorry i can't agree with this.just because the drake happens to be be fotm does not mean it's op."
"2+ years is hardly flavor of the month.also, lol at those ships listed.the drake is the most used ship. three times as much as the hurricane which is second most. it is used so much, it is more than the ships that came in fifth thru second combined!fotm (flavor of the month) my ass."
"and a very large portion of the people who play eve are caldari, combine that with thae large number who train them for pve and a healthy dose of name another good tech 1 caldari ship and you get drake numbers.also a lot of people support or would accept a drake rebalence, they just happen to hate your idea. no one wants that many fitting problems or any other ship to need a rcu at max skill.but hey to test it i put seven ham ii's and a mwd i on a max skill drake with 15% powergrid removed(engineering ii). it went over, this is before any kind of tank or dmg mod, congrats your drake can not tank or deal dps, and that is at max skill so basically @#&% anyone newish player who tries to fly one and you wonder why your the only one who supports your own posts.do some research before posting!"
"your doing it wrong. so you are mad because a noob would not be able to do all those things great at the same time? sorry to break you the news, but a noob should not be able to.drone the ballistic control for a rcu (reactor control unit) and you still get all that epic tank, tackle, speed, agility, etc. you are just doing a bit less damage.you should use eft (eve fitting tool) program. there is some formulas you are missing and this tool is amazing to help people out."
"and again drake is fine. caldari has their benefits, as all others.drake was already nerfed before release, 7 missile slots instead of 8.nerf it again and we will have another bc, popular as ferox, which needs a boost btw, but noone cares...btw, most of my fittings for this ship requires +5% cpu implant (with all v of course)..."
"if anything, the drake needs an ecm bonus and more midslots."
"every tier 2 battle cruiser was nerfed a bit before the release. i also am wondering what kind of fittings you use requires a +5% implant."
"well, not such a bad idea :)drake has a good medslots, so why not fit all of them in ecm, and some armor tank\apms in low? :) it's a low priority target so you can jam quite a long time before they sees wtf :)"
"ordinary damage cheap t2 fitting. both, pvp and pve... i din't fly this ship a long ago already, but it's a nice one :)"
"this, and which fc wants to have all race bc's in fleet? drakes attract drakes."
"a proper cane fit will kick a drakes ass. its got nearly as good a tank, a hell of allot more gank with ac's."
"on the scale of op the drake isn't as bad as the rifter, cynabal, or dramiel, in their respective classes and thus shouldn't be addressed until those are. not supported."
"does this guy realize that the drake is the only tier 2 bc that has to have an pdu to have a good fit? edit: or a 5% pg implant it would still be a good ship if it had to switch out for a rcu but that would be retarted"
"a fine this. to that!i fly gallente and even i don't see why the drake should be nerved. but buffing blasters a bit... well now were talking."
"dude, chill, eat more fiber.as to the op. drake is fine leave it alone.next."
"this thread deserves a more serious response:the changes ccp made to the game mechanics in dominion have resulted in a trend toward smaller sig ships in 0.0 fleet combat.this leaves alliances with choices on what bc/c fleets to fly. the most common fleets can either be summed up as:1. drake fleet with vulture/tengu bonuses and scimitar logistics2. after burning armor hac fleet with damnation/loki bonuses and guardian logistics. only one of the ships that fits either of these setups is avaliable to low sp pilots. hence the drake has become the king of the 0.0 fleet fight.if ccp mess with the drake they are messing with a symptom not the cause. other options include: nerf logistics, nerf sig raduis bonuses, buff damage of large turrets against smaller targets... ...all of those options would involve a level of committment and foresight that ccp have shown time and time again they lack."
"while i agree that a paint show would be great, there needs to be a way to keep it from getting out of hand. using a system like the one i suggested involving micro-transactions will do such a thing."
"the fact that you're accusing hersh of trolling makes you look like a child who can't accept that it's been told it's wrong. if there's anyone on the forums that won't troll you, it's hersch. yes you were two members off, not a giant deal - until you make it into one by whinging on about the correction like a five year old.there are also those of us who are tired of reading this proposal every couple of months by people who are absolutely convinced that their version of it is absolutely right, like you. i fall into this second category, but i will also not troll you - despite my urge to open this post with an initial verbal *****-slap.if you want people to take you seriously, stop being an idiot."
"have the colors only remain client side. your raven will look pretty yellow, or carebear pink to you, but to everyone else, it is just a normal raven."
"that, at least, is guaranteed not to add network lag. it might add rendering lag, but that would be you own fault at that point."
"if you've got money you don't need, donate it to ccp instead of suggesting that new features cost a premium to everyone.what kind of 'get out of hand' are you talking about - too many poor people get shiny things?paint job idea is nice, not really a priority, but customisable ships = win."
"waste of time?! thats your fault buddy. i use eve gate all the time. also it is getting better. your statement is like me saying they should not fix blasters because i don't use them. so what about when you do want to use eve gate? oh let me guess, then they can fix it? your selfish buddy.obviously supporting."
"i'd support this, and i disagree with the space issues drake brought up for one reason: ccp is already storing the data required.think about it, a killboard needs to know the following information:the characters involved, the ships invovled, the items dropped, the isk values, etc etc etc.ccp already stored all this information, because they provide it to other kbs via the api. so for ccp to proviude a kill board would not require any more real database space (they even store the kill mails somehow, so the queries to pull the data already exist, in large part).in reality all this would require is an official ui integration into eve gate, which seems like low hanging fruit to me."
"it might actually give me a reason to use evegate.this might make it too easy to find everyones kills/find out who all is in a corp for a war dec."
"dont give a damn about eve-gate but a uniform source for kills would be appreciated, even if it has not front-end visualisation but for sync only."
"i've often wanted an option to stay online but let people know that i'm afk or tell them what time they can expect me back. i imagine it must have been brought up before. perhaps some standard options such as you see on msn (away, afk, busy), or preferably something where you can leave a customized message like \"back at 16.00 eve time\" prompted by them starting a conversation with you, or sending you a mail.maybe i'm just speaking for myself (in which case i'll just keep on walking), but i would find it very useful!"
"well, i don't think it is necessary. but, if something like that will be in game, i will use it"
"not hard to find :panyway i want the same :)"
"ah epic, i don't really pay much attention to the csm topics etc if i'm honest but i am glad to see its on the agenda :d"
"there are plenty of other containers that can be put in freighters and smaller, simply put, this would be a waste of development time."
"why do you need to move them? you can buy them in every (npc) station in the game, afaik, so at what point would you need to move them somewhere?"
"to about any player build outpost in 0.0 as you can't get them there :("
"if memory serves there is a blueprint. buy it and use it. its cheap."
"i find it increasingly frustrating that the majority of the best corp names and tickers are taken by alts dating back 7+ years in some cases. a lot of those accounts are no doubt inactive, owners have possibly or probably left the game. with only 5 characters allowed in a corporation ticker it is near impossible to come up with something that's attractive and original. i have two possible solutions, one is to have a cap, maybe 3-4-5 years? where if no one is active within that corporation the name is reset to something like corporation00001 and so on. the other possible solution would be to allow a 6th character to the corp ticker, allowing for a whole new batch of words. one other annoying thing to point out as well, if a corporation is closed down, the corporation name can be used again but not the ticker - does this have to be?a similar topic could be started for character names, but really you are far less limited than you are with corporations, and in particular corporation tickers."
"i would support the idea of expanding the corp ticker a character or two."
"i hate the fact that as a csm you are pushing for changes to boosters. have you asked any of the major people in the booster trade how drug sales are going and whats wronge with it. have you been working in the booster trade since release day like i have. have you moved a bil or 2 of boosters into jita for sales cause your corp just got bought out. have you personally delivered drugs to a new client who wanted fast service to npc low sec or npc 0.0 system. i personally have many problems with whats going on with boosters but i have been working with them for a long time. you changes will take all the work out of them and make them nothing more than a piece of trit. i do not support your idea. i do not support your changes. i do not support you being csm.if you want to learn about the problems with the booster trade talk to anyone who has been doing this long term and not for a month and can't figure it out themselves."
"imo you forgot the most important boost for drugs: reduce the chance of having them confiscated by customs.many 0.0 dwellers are already regular drug users, empire just needs a nudge."
"hey guys, as many of you know there's just no end to the scams and faulty/fraudulent contracts that can be found in game. i purpose that it be make a petitional offense, that if you scam blatantly on contracts, that you can get fined by ccp and the items in question be returned to the rightful owner, whether it be isk or otherwise [ei, mods, plex, etc]this is not for the whinny pansies that i see everyday in game or myself as i actually sort the really from the fraudulent contracts before buying. but for ccp's consumers which if they stop playing this game will cause ccp to stop producing updates to/for this game and the servers being shut down.let me make this clear, i'm saying this is as bad as if not worse than isk selling for real cash, and is actually more damaging in the long run.so as stated, ccp, please take time to find a solution to this travesty that is characters like 'industrial mining'"
"show us on the doll where the bad man touched you.ccp's already nerfing contract scamming with the advent of faction ships 'n stuff being sold on the market."
"quitely disguising epic tears does not make them any less qqgood work industrial mining!oh and i hear in wow you get your stuff back, maybe eve is a little too hard for you, the rest of us are fine!"
"i'm sorry, but no. this is the sandbox. learn from your mistakes and learn to read the fine print."
"no. eve has something special the other games do not. it punishes stupidity and carelessness (scammed people), and rewards intelligence and meticulous planing (scammer). how about returning to wow? i hear that scamming is petitionable there."
"excuse me sir/madam, but i am now the rightful owner of the 420,000,000 isk in question. i have a contract here that you presonally signed, clearly saying that you have received one unit of raven for it."
"i know, but at least there must be some reason to train. 30% refineries is too little for that.oh, whell, who cares..."
"try training something you'll actually use occasionally?"
"aleeady done that it's not just because my industry alt only those skills left to train, it's about a whole thing.there is hundreds of combat pinot's skills that have a reason to lvl v, how long they take it's another question. and a lot of industry skills doesn't have that reason, that isn't look right..."
"just make it that you need to go to the system to know who is the owner and the development levels.small alliances will have a small chance to stablish themselves in 0.0 unnoticed."
"no , big alliances needs someone to \"pvp\" with."
"don't think this will solve your problem, the information can be easily \"meta'd\" by spamming out scout alts and logging the information. also it doesn't make much sense that you wouldn't know who claimed sov since the fees are paid to concord.i think fixing the stupid as **** sov mechanics are more important, and have a much better chance to give new people an actual foothold."
"i know it will not be a definitive solution, but could work againts lazy alliances that dont patrol their dominions.it's fine for me if they actively scout their systems instead of using free intel.in relation with the concord issue, from a roleplaying point of view i like to think that what is paid for sovereignty is for bribes, so"
"i have been thinking over the past few days about random stargates that act almost like a wormhole. each region has a starportal that when used like a normal stargate will transport you to a random region/system anywhere in the nullsec eve universe. i think it could be great for both solo and small roaming gangs while not having a great impact on anyone else. while there would be a large increase in suicide roams, that's also fun to defend against. and yes, random means random, there is no way to know where you will end up. solo ppl will go to different locations, gangs will jump together when fc/boss jumps them. thoughts, idea's?"
"i don't understand why 'mining ships' cannot fit ladar gas harvesters and dont even have bonus's to them.mining in a bc just seems wrong.any mining ship should have enough bonus's to outmine a battlecruiser.ships should have bonus's to what they were designed for.otherwise the next thing you know - we will all be missioning in hulks doing the angel extraveganza."
"ore != gasas for what seems wrong - if it works, it's not wrong, no matter what it seems like."
"most fleet dictors fit double bubble. this usually means fitting a co-processor and two sphere launchers. i really don't see a need for launching more bubbles than that."
"they can already be destroyed by smartbombs, so go ahead and fit one to your interdictor if it's that much of an issue. otherwise it's a balances feature as it is and as other people say you should have to commit to dropping one."
"if i have to sit in \"coffin\" mode in my hictor, you have to sulk in your little 2 minute hellbubble too."
"everyone uses double click to move and align to targets. changing this would break fleet combat. just set orbit to your cans and it will work fine. if you don't believe me get on sisi and do it there."
"optional would be great. sometimes when i am spamming ctrl+click for a lock, i do not want to move closer to the ship."
"this. i like the double click to move in some instance. in others, it's a pita."
"to all the idiots saying no because it would ruin the game to not have the ability to do this.the op said optional: as in an option."
"supported of course! spamming ctrl+click to target multiple enemies means you mend up moving towards them if your clicks are too close together in time. no really, ctrl+click this target, then the next one too quickly and the game thinks you double-clicked the second target.when this happens while i am flying a speed tanked sniper boat, things get messy very quickly."
"yes, so much, please.i was going to make a proposal about this, but have the 'option of remapping the command', so for example you could have 'shift + click' or any other combination of a button plus click.also with the revamped shortcuts coming, it's the perfect time to do this.as for why i would like the option of changing it from a double click. my last two mouse have a very sensitive click, which means sometimes when i've jumped into a 0.0 system which is bubbled, my ship has started to move when i've rotated the camera to see which objects to align to/cans to avoid/area to cloak to. this usually ends in a frustrating death.and it's all because of this.for those of you who live by double click, that's fine, but let's keep it optional."
"yeah i really love the bug where double clicking in another d3d app is picked up by eve and makes your ship move. this needs to be an option."
"cromo effect now == double dee?"
"i'm wondering that myself, her ideas are certainly stupid enough."
"so you lost some fights. simple solution is to get more friends. watch enemy movements. plan out when to strike them and when to run. i think you will find high sec war decs to be very fun and worth your time."
"nice attempt at a troll, but too obvious."
"i always thought this should be changed myself."
"so instead of trying to discern between stabber and stabber fleet issue you would rather have to try and sort out republic fleet stabberrepublic fleet firetailrepublic fleet tempestrepublic fleet typhoonrepublic fleet scythecome back when you have thought this through all the way.edit:i wouldn't mind seeing it changed just for the sake of consistency, but the if the op thinks this will help his overview issues, he's smoking something."
"*sigh* another person not doing their research. this idea has been brought up i don't know how many times. just get the most recent thread and build on that. no reason to keep spamming the same idea over and over."
"all this would do is make this new ship the standard for mining and make hulks and such obsolete. your introducing one ship and eliminating the need for 3-6 others. sorry but it is just un-intuitive."
"the idea has merit. maybe the subsystem has a drawback like rigs that lowers the ehp of the ship when fitted."
"just rename the hanger."
"the players should be the ones dictating law enforcement in 0.0, not npc characters."
"while this has some merit, i don't think it should keep you from showing up on the directional scanner. maybe from being scanned down."
"yes."
"as fawka wrot above, the original petition was closed (timed out) waiting to be escalated. this is not an uncommon occurrence with issues that confuse junior gms. that is the point i am trying to make.actually we killed what looked like a ratting bs.i can also see a few members of the pandemic legion damage control team throwing a few less than useful remarks around.zenthral staichon chooses to \"lawl\" at the whole thing. wize, but not post-worthy perhaps.exactly why a gm should investigate and/or escalate when we ask for it. he should not ignore the petition. it is possible to work around the problem. if four or five people remove/add someone, they are very likely to get a proper result - welcome to 2003 (see how that works.)how eloquent dear fellow. as pointed out earlier, it might be a good idea if the some of the potentially biased representative yield the floor on this one. since you are reluctant to do so, allow me to point out, that we agree. we do need proof. we need gms to take petitions seriously.evidence can come from many sources, and when determining validity, ccp might elevate some of it to proof. repeatedly screaming \"proof\" like a rabid chihuahua makes you look like a waste of votes imo.back on the topic. i still think we may need a petition process overhaul. as we grew larger and a tiered sorting was implemented. i am arguing that some of the more complex issues slip through for reasons that are not valid.instead of placing the burden of proof on the witness/petitioner, i suggest we keep the right to deliver evidence with both the players and the gms, but leave the \"proving it\" part to the investigators and their superiors."
"that is a bit of a generalisation. some of the readers appear to grasp the issue. you choose not to. try to read my post above. it may clear up some things as i have attempted to be more clear on the difference between evidence and proof and how it relates to petitions in general.if you are commenting on the example i provided about the person we shot, then you are missing the point. for that particular issue, fawka (not me) is handling the petition(s) and any escalations. his latest reply was that a petition timed out. as pointed out, he would need to keep refreshing it while waiting to hear from a senior gm. he did not, and that may have been a mistake. i trust a new petition has been created.allowing active petitions to automatically time out is problematic. once they contain a \"please escalate\" from the petitioner, or a \"needs investigating\" from a gm, the petition system should perhaps disable the time out function entirely. now that is a tangible suggestion.i can see you also invoked the \"..goes to cry on forums\" part. that is in no way useful since you yourself choose to make the point on a forum. by assigning the modifier \"cry\" you reduce the signal to noise ratio of this forum and help make a case for re-introducing permanent forum bans. kindly refrain from wasting 1s and 0s like that in the future."
"trust, but verify.' sure, someone who reports someone using a local hack could be lying. however, that provides you a name. if a gm follows that name around (on the assumption that gms can observe in secrecy, which i figure is a pretty safe one) then they'll either not see the behavior again, or they'll see the hack in action themselves. they don't need to trust the evidence submitted to them unequivocally, but rather the need to trust it just enough to get some first-hand observations to verify it one way or the other. moving into speculative territory, it should be too terribly difficult to automate a system to periodically check up on people on the suspect list to see if they're showing up in local. macro-ratters can see people in local, why can't ccp's gm toolkit? ;)"
"there's also an easy solution to people filing frivolous claims: people found making them can be liable to various forms of gm sanction themselves."
"stop over-reacting. the game will still be fun even after micro-transactions. take a deep breath and chill."
"wow, i admire a man of principle! good luck !"
"fixed my post to make more sensethere is no mention of eve being less fun, and from what was seen in iceland the opposite will be true.due to my stance on microtransactions as the character t'amber i can not in good conscience purchase plex. while the effort i put into the game returns a high emotional reward (and i get to meet some cool people) with the coming changes to the payment model and the way that i personally play this is nolonger enough for me nor do i wish to continue paying cash for the amount of work and effort that i put into the game and the community.while i am completely aware of the benefits and pitfalls of plex along with the logic for, and arguments against microtransactions - i've made my descision based on how i currenly play the game and how i roleplay my characters.i will probably return because this is a ****inging great game with an awesome community, but my playstyle and expectations will be different and i'll be playing a different character with a alternate end goal - all tailored to this new payment model. -t'amber"
"i will probably return because this is a ****inging great game with an awesome community, but my playstyle and expectations will be different and i'll be playing a different character with a alternate end goal - all tailored to this new payment model. -t'amberawesome dude. that's what i mean just take the game the way it is or will be and let it roll. you have done enough free work, support and promotion for ccp's game. i learned years ago never to lift a finger for a game company again unless i'm getting paid for it.grats you won eve. seriously."
"your trolls are the reason why you are irrelevant to me. the moment i see you are willing to discuss maturely with me anything you want i would be happy to engage you in constructive discussion. till then...also i love how people allow themselves to insult others while being hidden behind their avatars and modems. if you are able to come i would love to meet you on the fanfest next year."
"holy crap. real life threat from care bear queen to guy who types green. i officially claim this thread is now awsome."
"eve is a video game the core concept is to have fun. most people who try this game have no fun and quit. ccp wants a heck of a lot more people to play eve so they are going to have to unclench the sphincters, lighten up in a big way and make the game one hell of alot more fun. they know they have a winner with the multipayer after they solve blob warfare/massive un-movable alliances and lag. but oh man the pve and timesinks are just so tedious and awful.remaps, faster skill training, etc, etc, etc who knows whats coming..are going to happen it's only a matter of time and the player base will rise because of it.ccp wants money more than anything. if they were so worried about the integrity of the game they never would of introduced gtc for plex. i bet they make more money from that than subscriptions.yes i'm drinking"
"do you think its possible to include this in decembers meeting?"
"still need fix"
"hell no!all new features should be part of the game, not bought with plex or real life dollars. new features should enrich the game, not enrich ccp while killing immersion!"
"no."
"no."
"no"
"no"
"nobut i'd actually would like to see cosmetic only implemented microtransaction so ccp can take idiots money. ability to blow up said cosmetics would be nice too. but real $ potential is in selling skill points (remap lol they're testing us), unique modules/ships etc it would be too tempting for ccp. slippery rope, yes definitely.btw props to you t'amber for commiting to this"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no."
"no."
"noits a slippery slope... i was almost willing to go with cosmetic, but someone here posted about team fortress 2 (a game i loved in the past) now selling hats that make you imune to headshots?!?! how the hell does that benifit the gaming community??? its like seling a module that makes you immune to neuts. active pvp tengu's anyone?i've had 2 accounts now, both active for over 2 years... thats over $750 i've paid to play this game. seriosly, if the $4-odd-million per month isnt enough, charge me an extra $1. you'll get more outa me that way than with micro transactons...$1 extra a month wont make me quit eve. $5 once for anything will."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"i'm down with the micro. yes."
"cosmetic"
"no"
"no.i wont quit, if it is just cosmetic. but plex for remap is not cosemtic!but this vote wont change a thing. all the rage quitters will be compensated by the microtransactions."
"supported"
"signed."
"i totally agree that the frigs/dessies (t1 or t2) with insufficient mids do struggle in general purpose fights. in the best case scenarios they wind up only being choiceworthy in very niche circumstances. this could do with some work.as for cruisers i am not really convinced they are as bad as you make them out to be. i flew ishkurs for a long time, everything from the std fit to total bizarro-land fits, and overall it performed exactly where a balanced af should. granted the ishkur is one of the top af's (with the jag and wolf) and not all af's will be able to do the same. the most pressing problem that cruisers present to af's, imo, is that so many cruisers are fitting specifically to counter af's and faction friggies now. i cant come up with a good argument for why a ship that dies/gets chased off, when the other ship is specifically setup to kill it, needs a boost. it seems to me that asking to boost the ship to the point where it doesnt get killed/chased off (by competent pilots) is really asking for someing op by definition. if you have a good argument then by all means share though.ps- you get no sympathy on the tracking thing if your talking about jags and wolfs. they always track as good, if not better, than my blasters"
"i know that some assault frigs tend to have issues. the vengeance has the potential to be an awesome little assault frig and im in love with the idea of that ship not to mention its looks, but the low dps factor does tend to be a buzz kill. theres an amaar armor tanking missile boat hac which is an awesome combination, if we could just fix rockets a little or raise the bonus for the vengeance it would help. as for a 4th bonus, yes that makes sense since most other tech 2 ships have that."
"supported"
"did you play eve? gallente drone ships have more tank than gallente blaster ships. because drone ships do not spend low slots for damage mods.try to play more than free 14 days"
"oh right. i forgot about the huge tank thats possible on the 'rax. 1600 plate + 3x trimarks 4tw right? oh wait but now you cant fit the medium guns you get bonuses to. thats ok cuz you fit small blasters amirite? i think this sufficiently sums up your working knowledge."
"iirc blasters use the same amount of cap/sec as lasers because laser boats get that 10%/lvl bonus.also: lol troll fights (hjlaskdjfa and neener)"
"yep. you are right. lets compare thorax and rupture for hjgjgfgfgsj. he is new in eve.[thorax] it is impossible to fit even 1st tier medium guns.damage control ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ienergized adaptive nano membrane iimagnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivex5 prototype i engine enervatorj5 prototype warp disruptor ilight neutron blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge slight neutron blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge slight neutron blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge slight neutron blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge slight neutron blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge smedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump ihammerhead ii x5--------------[rupture]damage control ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ienergized adaptive nano membrane iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivex5 prototype i engine enervatorj5 prototype warp disruptor i220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m5w infectious power system malfunction5w infectious power system malfunctionmedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump ihammerhead ii x3it is possible to fit 2nd tier (!) medium ac. same tank, more speed, shoots with zero cap, 2 small neuts, same dps (with selectable damage)"
"doctor, you don't know how to fit ships. the thorax is more than capable of fitting medium guns. the fit i'm staring at right now has 42k ehp, and 450 dps and goes 1100 m/s, with a gun range of 1.5 optimal and 3.8 falloff.the rupture fit i'm staring at right now has 40k ehp, 400 dps, and goes 1200 m/s with a gun range of 1.4 optimal and 11 falloff.bottom line - it is balanced. the thorax can do whatever the rupture can do, and the thorax can do whatever a stabber can do.the demos can do whatever a vagabond can do. the ishtar can **** almost anything.look, i'm right, ok?"
"hahahahaha!and there goes any credibility you might have had!"
"[deimos, vagadeimos]magnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iitracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iidamage control iinanofiber internal structure iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivewarp disruptor iilarge shield extender iiheavy neutron blaster ii, null mheavy neutron blaster ii, null mheavy neutron blaster ii, null mheavy neutron blaster ii, null mheavy neutron blaster ii, null m[empty high slot]medium anti-em screen reinforcer imedium anti-em screen reinforcer ihammerhead ii x5600 dps, 1800 m/s, 26k ehp, good resists, so what are you talking about?"
"wtfbbq maybe?"
"have you ever actually lost a fight against an amarr because the fight started out at 45k?"
"[vagabond, vaga]tracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iidamage control iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivej5 prototype warp disruptor ilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field ii425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m[empty high slot]medium projectile collision accelerator imedium projectile burst aerator ihobgoblin ii x5600dps at 30km falloff or 500dps 44km falloff (selective damage) 2480m/s, 26.8k ehp (84/75/63/69) i think it is not true.just try it. gallente eft numbers are not so bad - it is true."
"good luck actually getting 600dps from a vaga at 30km.edit. to clarify i am not defended him saying a deimos can do the skirmish thing like a vaga, thats just stupid"
"recall my first carrier.....had to ask where it was....thought it was a battle ship."
"mass effect had alien lesbians. we should have our futas!"
"so much hate, futas have feelings too!"
"imo you should have the choice of 1600s+fmp or 800+hpl. -liang"
"of course lols.nature of the beast :)"
"**my opinion of course**new eden and real life should be as far separated as possible.i know we need to pay subscriptions, and plex makes that a more fluid process, but any other connections to the real world and the real dollar need to be avoided at all costs.i vote no, and not just because the principle doesn't sit well with me, i've seen many forms of micro-transactions come and go throughout the years in my other mmos, and most of the time it hurt or outright killed the game given enough time!"
"i dont see anything wrong with it its not like their gonna let you remap sp for plex not supported."
"signed."
"please do not discuss existence moderation."
"danger e-peen in danger, this topic is full of ret___ards."
"supportedplex for remap is a very very very very very very very very bad idea"
"whats all the panic about.we can allready buy plexes and sell them ingame for isk.that allready gives a bigger advantage than a neural remap which can be done for free once a year anyways."
"you are absolutely right i'ma change my vote down these ******s are acting like it's some sort of sp remap"
"proposal:i propose that concord takes a holiday for 24hours, once a year, every year.pros:this is an awesome idea.cons:24hours is so little time."
"thunderdome"
"strangely compelling."
"could be fun with a supply of frigates at hand."
"space dunkin' donuts run \o/"
"wtf?it's no concord in lolsec.or someone thinks that carebears and haulers will undock this day?"
"concord on strike, people would actually ask for more"
"h3ll yeah!"
"and then too once a year every year too (during absence in high sec eventually) they move to low sec ^^ so new / low skill player would not be 100% ****ed"
"make it 23 hours. even concord need to rest at downtime! :)"
"this has been asked for before, and the same answer will make it through today - no. if you want to experience life without concord, leave high-security space and quit trying to force your game style on others because you think it would be 'comical'.tl;dr: no."
"my guess is ccp would not want to go to the programming effort to reduce pvp combat. if all the pvp ships are in \"high sec\" looking for pve ships then combat in their former haunts will go down while the minuscule number of pve pilots who would undock on that day would not make up for it. it would be quite annoying if that was the day when your spouse/parents/boss was out of town and it was your rare opportunity for some significant eve time. but if you have a flexible eve schedule it would have zero impact on you. and it would be an interesting experiment; p.s.: there are already two scheduled every year. do you expect much concord activity for the day after the new expansion hits, especially the next one with the new graphics/character engine?"
"this post is serious."
"very well worded, better than i could have said it."
"+1 internetsedit: i quoted the wrong person."
"there'd be more people than there is in lowsec currently, thats for sure."
"this.only noobs would undock this day, you really want noobs' tears this much ?"
"you must be new to this game..."
"to be honest, im tired of the 'local' debate. +1 on your idea but im gonna spell it out for everyone else.local's primary use is an intel tool to find eeryone in system, even cloaked players.removing local helps pirates just as much as carebears. its not one sided. if pirates can't see the carebears, the carebears can't see the pirates.macros can't insta see nuetrals and hide in pos if there is no local to see nuetrals.yes, it will lead to mass spam of the d-scan, buts its not like nobody uses it now.(sov warfare stuff) not being able to instatly know what thier enemy force size is is a good thing.theres a few others but i'll leave it at that.edit: checked the box"
"just as insane as removing carebares from the local channel, but forcing any player who have podded anyone in the past 6 months to remain in local.either make local an obtainable channel in nulsec, or not at all."
"it is easy to write this topic off as a dead horse, but i truly believe that this compromise would be well received by the majority of eve.why do this ?- the logic behind taking local from unclaimed systems simply makes sense.- carebears cant complain because they dont deserve to grind isk in such a system if they are to cheep to pay the cheep bill and thus retain local.- this feature will be a small but unbelievably refreshing improvement to 0.0 small gang warfare.- it will bring back the excitement and uncertainty when traversing 0.0 space.doing this for the wrong reason:- pushing the issue in hopes of ending 0.0 macro ratters will never be accepted by ccp simply because it is only going to affect a small amount of violators compared to the thousands of macro miners in empire and thus not worth ccp's time.look at this idea with the mindset that its sole purpose is to rejuvenate and intensify the average pvp/pve pilot's experience, because no matter who you are, we are all carebears in one form or another ; )hiero,"
"agreed"
"hey, that's my idea !! i just cba to start a thread about it, as others had already mentioned such a way of handling local in 0.0.well, this gets my vote whatsoever."
"a reasonable compromise i suppose."
"if the sphere still works, ccp needs to remove local entirely and sooner rather than later."
"tired of the debate.still +1 for a decent compromise."
"tbh i like the idea, even though i<U+FFFD>d just say to extend it for claimed systems, that sov-holders can decide who can use local and who can<U+FFFD>t.well, it<U+FFFD>s not like they are too cheap, it<U+FFFD>s more like someone putting up a tcu atracting the powerful neighbours that kill it just 4 fun.i consider macro mining inefficient, while rattingbots can be seen in every second system in some regions of 0.0 space. some russian alliance i am not going to call by it<U+FFFD>s name is actually providing active support for the bot users amongst their renters...disabling local for non-sov holders or disabling it in unclaimed space at all would surely **** off those bot ******s"
"suported"
"+1 ccp needs to improve upon the sov mechanics againperhaps sov could based on activity, you know the whole \"no afk empires\" thing?proposal:i would say that the current sov system is based on time and resources and not so much activity. i would say to get"
"we love you mazzilliu!"
"it used to be difficult to move large numbers through multiple regions so as to hold space/attack space.now days anyone set blue to a coalition can jumpbridge over half of eve in a few jumps. this allows for massive numbers to stagnate 0.0 being able to control pretty much whatever they like.i think if eve wants to remain a sandbox game where individual players can still have significant impact on the outcome of the game, then these massive numbers need to find it harder to move to wherever they want whenever they want on the drop of a hat.options:1. make it so that only alliances owning jumpbridges can pass through them2. limit the amount of fuel the bridge can carry severely... perhaps enough so that only one freighter or cap can pass through it. and say 10 bs or something like that. (the best way in my eyes to do this isnt to just limit the amount of fuel you can put into the jb, but also make it so that more fuel is needed to jump things through. so that it requires serious logistics to gather fuel at poses if people want it to be so easy to move giant gangs through jbs.3. remove them from the game."
"even ccp devs dislike that you can travel so quickly"
"this. i've seen my share of people jump bridging to get away from a roaming gang only to be gathered with 50 or so of their blues 10 systems later."
"here's my personal suggestion:only one jump bridge can be anchored per constellation, so moving through a whole region would require about half of the jumps to be made through normal gates."
"in the old days these ships were underused thus didnt cause any problem for this game. now days it is common to see 20-30 logistic ships in the same gang. lots of the time you end up with 2 gangs both having upwards of 20 logistics ships.this has made pvp extremely boring and relatively unrisky compared to what it used to be. (i imagine missions also?)i propose one of a few things:1. logistics can no longer rep one another (only other non-logistic class ships) 2. introduction of a new t2 bs (logistics) make it relatively expencive but able to fit large reps. then draw back the bonuses to powergrid for the logistics ships. - medium reps still give plenty of reps though so this needs more thought. (you can even leave logi t3s as they are considering their price)3. remove them from the game..."
"mr. minigin,we, the other players of eve, would like to thank you for taking the time to formulate your ideas into a post and present them to us.regrettably, we are unable to accept your idea at the present time because, frankly, we enjoy not getting blown up constantly.however, i can assure you that, should our position on that change, we will gladly reconsider your proposal.yours in fellowship,"
"sorry, but this proposal is bad."
"in fairness, most fights these days are a simple who has more logistics equation. it's not the endgame of pvp, but it plays a huge role in pvp. i think the problem stems more from bombers and the lack of a possible long range platform for bs and the drake issue more than anything else though. if ccp were to fix probing, fix drakes, and fix the ability of bombers to easily **** long range setups more easily than cr setups, i think the logistics issue would go away.i still think light dictors bubbles need to be looked at as well. heavy dictors have an actual defined limitation to their bubble. if the heavy interdictor dies or gets neuted, or get's out ranged, it's bubble becomes useless. light dictors die and their bubble still projects itself for up to 2 minutes. this makes no sense as it affects warp in's, and the ability of fleets to escape."
"or people could stop fit lr fleet bs in glass cannon mode? most cr fleet bs survive because they actually fit some buffer.and since your drake comment i am quite sure you are just trolling and dont understand ****.i think it is rather balanced. they die faster but their bubble can last a bit after they died. hics are harder to kill but their bubble is gone instantly."
"more strategies! not more nerfs"
"nofor one making use of logistics requires skill and organization, yeah it keeps people alive, that's sorta the point but it has a significant cost and can go horribly wrong.for another logistics lessening the value of dps heightens the value of alpha balancing it with the much vaunted dps and allowing for a broader range of strategies. where before there was no real question weather you preferred to have 40 apocs or 40 tempests the alpha of the latter enabling it to eliminate portions of the logistics chain in a volley promote a broader mix of strategies to counter logistics."
"qtfdevianart must pay for this atrocity!edit:c-c-c-c-combo breaker......no,wait,someone broke it first"
"agree"
"agreed."
"seriously... just make another one during the year some time... definatly worth it, everyone enjoys them etc etc. (maybe make one as a corporation tournament? that could be pretty bad ass) dont even need to do the whole iceland weekend thing, just do it online!!! polzplzpzlzpklsoklspokpzlzplzplzpzlz!@"
"we discusses this with ccp unofficial and the issue is that organizing a tournament (proper one) is extremely costly, esp. in manpower. i am sure everyone would like to see more tournaments but at then its all up to the point of finding a good balance of quality vs. quantity."
"kind bump"
"this reply is brought to you by a relatively bad pilot.i am an amarr toon cross trained in caldari. i have a decent distribution in skills, totaling a fair amount of sp. i recently fit out a drake to much satisfaction. yes, the solid tank and the solid dps is nice. but it does still use missiles, so when it gets right down to it a different bc would be a better choice (imo) in a fleet than a drake, yet it still has its use and could still serve as a benefit. the drake is such a popular ship for this reason. it is easily in reach for newer pilots, and can be put to use in many different situations in eve. does this make it op? maybe. it could be that a jack of all trades of this type was not intended. i for one do not believe this. and after taking the ferox for a spin, i think ccp felt bad for caldari. thats just my two cents, and i will not be supporting this support or the similar one just below it. the drake is fine the way it is, takes a lot of skill to completely max out (as it should), but also can be fit decently at a lower sp.in short, leave my drake alone, or make the ferox less of a failboat."
"choose between tank and utility?the drake can fit a lse and 2x invuln, and still fit a disruptor and web.what other ship can fit a point, web, 3x damage mods, and still have more than 80k ehp?"
"you do realize that a cane can fit 2 damage mods tackle dual nuet tank and cap booster or dual web and still not have a pg implant right?edit: and have really good dps and also the drake is one of only good pvp caldari ships."
"have you ever see a man eat his own head?"
"ehem....[drake, drake: h-m-l + m-neut]power diagnostic system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iimagnetic scattering amplifier iilarge f-s9 regolith shield inductionfaint warp disruptor iy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdriveheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missilemedium unstable power fluctuator imedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender ihobgoblin ii x5517 dps (kinetic)75k ehp 85k with overload6 minutes 40 seconds of cap with neut (mwd off)requires a +3% cpu imprate it at battle clinic...."
"this sucks balls needs dcu hams take the msa and put in a web so take the pdu off you will need a pg implant though and i dont think you will be able to fit the medium nuet"
"well done rick. you stay on that unilateral way of thinking. you are so awesome. i was just showing that the drake can do what someone asked and the fit doesn't suck balls. the stats are comparable and whats with this fixation of fitting a dcu? real men fit 3 damage mods you big girl."
"pray tell, where are those weaknesses i can exploit?"
"eve used to be a game where different ship classes served different roles within fleets. ceptors acted as tackle, cruiser classes acted as support killers, battle ships acted as the bulk firepower.but as eve has progressed, diversity has left fleets. the old swarms of frigates have been replaced by much smaller swarms of hics and dictors. and fleets have become single entity compilations rather than diverse. there used to be a balance to roles that is no longer filled. now we see fleets comprising of only hacs and logistics, or only battle cruisers and logistics or only battleships and logistics, and even the dictors are slowly being phased out because it's easy to sit at 0 and hold points on primary targets. i'd like to see eve return to a game where generic 1 ship type fleets are replaced with more balanced needs in fleets again. we have 6 or 7 tiers of ships in game atm, and the game is hardly finding a use for a mixture of tiers any more, less not classes within those teirs.before the rabble rabble starts; saying that a few arazu's or a few rapiers in a fleet makes it diverse is in no way an acceptable counter argument to what eve was in the past in terms of mixed platform combat.examples of lack of balance between tiers are the ability to fit a 1600 plate on a cruiser class ship and boost it's ehp by 3-4x what it's base is. the equal range issue of cr bs vs armor hacs with the exception of the apoc. omni platform drake fleet that's good at killing everything. the inability for frigates to have any significant impact on fights at all. the huge disparity between destroyers and bc filling roles. the abilities of carriers to field both fighters and unending waves of smaller drones while also remote repairing. etc. the fact that signitures on ships make no sense. the fact that slot layouts on ships make no sense. the fact that drones are overreachingly spread across 4 races when they weren't meant to be."
"am i aggreeing with northern coalition? edit: spelling, my typing is off today"
"i just want to be able to click the corp tab and select afk. some of us including myself have a tendency to walk away from the computer for a long period of time or even go to work with the client still logged in. its more of the hard core eve players that do it. a lot of times we just want to keep tabs on things when around the house. some of us just like to stay logged in.theres reasons that may or not be obvious for a feature like this to not be usable in local chat, but it would be useful in corp chat.it would be nice to be able to turn the flag on and off by right clicking the tab, but a corp member came up with the idea of either a logo coming up or your name turning yellow after 30 minutes in the chat list also. when you typed again it would automatically clear, or your could manually turn it off again resetting the timer.as of now the only thing we can do is add afk to our bio's but that is to cumbersome.i just came into this problem again today where i stay logged in at work and confused the crap out of a few people in my corp, i was going to start a new thread but posted here instead.hopefully ccp is listening and has an idea for this.i do however like the fact that there is no auto logout and dont want that to change."
"not all stations have manufacturing slots."
"allow individual players to have hangar divisions. this will solve almost all of the problems that station containers are used to solve.just let us organization freaks organize already."
"the solution here is to ensure all stations have at least one manufacturing slot, even if it's heavily gimped speed-wise or restricted to only build station warehouses."
"one of the number one reasons long range bs platforms do not work in this game anymore is the threat of bombers. ccp explicity implemented bombers as a means of deblobing people. yet the game tools still lack any appropriate way to deblob a fleet without some very elementary mechanics.it's time for ccp to implement fleet formation warping to enable fc's the ability to warp fleets in a more scattered pattern to help prevent the use of bombers and dictor bubbles on a 0 meter landing. it's absolutely obsured that it's been talked about for over 4 years and not been implemented.give us the ability to fleet warp in patterns that act defensively to enable better warp in, and on grid warping tactics.types of formation possibilities:the scattered ball: fleet warps in at random ranges of 0-30 or 0-50 from a center point in a ball shaped pattern.the line draw: fleet warps in on a singular path at 0-30 or 0-50 from a centerpoint. wing dictation: each wing commander sets his pattern based on fleet options and the fc sets warp in ranges for each centerpoint of the wing commanders. ie for 3 wings, each wing sets their pattern, and the fc chooses a warp in range for each from 0-100.focused warp: same as todays mechanic where the fleet lands within a tight sphere on a singular point.v formation: ducks do it, so why can't we. v formation keeps the fleet on the same plane based on warp in angle, but delivers them in a v shaped pattern.tackle formation: similar to the wing dictation, but without actually setting wings up individually, the fleet get's warped in a set ranges based on ship class: ie cruisers/frigates/bc, etc."
"or you could just sort your fleet into approapriate wings/squads by shiptype and delegate to them how/where to warp on grid... but this would of course require far more skill than most 0.0 fleet peons are capable of. why engage a bit of grey matter when there's a chance you can get the game to do it for you?"
"unfortunately, i have to agree with lark. divide your fleet up, and have them warp in based on a fixed position (like a cloaked ship or two)."
"and if you had a clue how warping mechanics work atm, you'd realize that even if you warped from 0-50, 90% of the ships would still be vulnerable to bombs and blobbed very close together. the point is to deblob fleets, not to use some **** mechanic work around to try and implement what ccp has failed to do thus far.supportedyou warp a fleet in at 0-100.... 4 out of the 7 options are 0-30. bombers can bomb everything within that range, you lose 55% of your fleet. you warp in at 0, 50, and 100, now at any given point, 1/3 of your fleet is vulnerable to bombs, and bubbles, and everything else at each of those points.fleet formation prevents single point warp in's and focused effects. it actually scatters the fleet with out wonky warp ins. and if dictor bubbles are on grid, a bubble fleet warp in would only affect a small group of your fleet, not the entire fleet b/c it warped in on that line.i didn't say there weren't work arounds. in fact i explicitly said there were but that they're terrible and juvenile for a complex game like eve. formation warping adds effect and tactic to the game that currently isn't there."
"tbh.....the sniper-bs platform still worksafter that point, the op's post just started to run together like spilt milk and emo tears.so no, agreeing with whats already been posted in disapproval."
"the dollar bill and the 100 dollar bill are green ya'll, don't worry about the differences.that's how educated your comments or larks comments were."
"you know... fleets of the size you're talking about should be able to provide more than one cov ops alt for warp ins or assuming you don't have a wing of bombers decloak on you immeadiately you can then delegate squads/wings to scatter in different directions to break up your battle ball.all it requires is a little bit of lateral thinking."
"yes guys, let's get a hammer and a screw driver and a cork and puncture the keg rather than just buy a tap.you're making the very argument i made for why we should have them. it's a pathetic system atm that could use some serious improvement. why you're against improving a terrible system atm is beyond my comprehension."
"while lark's response is good in theory, it falls down practically.1) combat tends to be fairly fast paced, where a few seconds can make the difference between tackling the enemy fleet and watching it warp out. the additional time needed for multiple warpins can kill a critical move.2) fleet organisation still ****ing sucks in larger fleets. once a wing hits full capacity a wing commander has no control to move people around into appropriate positions, or even into different wings. the fleet window frequently doesn't update properly or shows you as in the wrong wing. of course there's still no way to tell if your squad leader/wc is even in the same system as you. and most importantly, there is no way to control which wing new fleet members join. this can result in the wrong ships being under the wrong wing commander, therefore preventing the right people from recieving the warpins and bonuses they should have.any warp system based on fleet ranking needs these issues resolved first.3) cloaked friendly covops have no mechanic to know where they are relative to each other on grid at any given time. this is a massive margin for error, where pilots assume they are x distance but turn out to be y distance apart. or worse yet, various on grid effects such as pos shields and bubbles can result in wildly different results when warping to 2 different points, and this can change with only seconds notice.4) capitals. even a moderate capital fleet needs many, many warpins to eliminate crazy delayed collision effects. this is compounded by last year's siege/triage changes that ensure once a cap starts rolling, it won't stop for a long long time.supported because the current mechanics are entirely inadequate. however there should be some pratical ways toa) still keep bombers relevant, perhaps by limiting the size of sub-capital formationsb) create custom 'flying dong' formations. everyone wants to be in a giant dong."
"no, i'm against dumbing down the game and catering to the lowest common denominator which is exactly what this is. formations were hinted at years ago as were many other things. pulling off a good bombing run is pretty hard to do, especially with some of the numbers you're pulling out of thin air. having seen assorted bomber wings in action there is a huge skill gap between different groups and it's all down to individual skill from the pilots themselves, scouts and fc if you want to have maximum effect and not lose 50% of your bombers on each run. if you want to avoid getting bombed by someone who is engaging their brain enough to be able to pull it off then engage your brain and work for it instead of just pushing buttan and having your fleet land on grid in extended line.in other posts you complain about rebalancing shiptypes so fleets are more diverse. they can be diverse, you just have to get a grip of your pilots and recruit guys who are capable of thinking for themselves instead of aligning, warping, locking and facerolling f1-f8. current fleet setups only came about because it's easier to coordinate 50, 100, 200 of one type of vessel under one fc. again settling to the lowest common denominator.edit: i'll admit that fleets need a lot of work but formations are low on my personal priority list."
"the tracking bonus from such formations would obliterate hac gangs as well, once again allowing battleship gangs to rule the universe."
"took me awhile to get my corp ticker.'gallente trade union'gtu was takeni tried a few others, ended up with gltu, wasn't that bad, but the corp with the ticker gtu has been dead for atleast 3 years.+1 on the corp name and +2 on the ticker."
"yes!"
"the dead and inactive don't need corp tickers."
"actually, i'm all for freeing up old tickers used by closed corporations.and ccp stated they wanted people to login (when mentioning upkeep costs for stores in incarna), so why not for corporations and tickers ?"
"if no one in a corporation is active for a year or two, i don't see any reason why not take their name and ticker. yes they might miraculously come back at some point, but active, paying customers should be a priority. afterall if even one of them had stayed active, they would have been in no risk of losing either the name or the ticker.with character names i feel the time before a name reset should be much longer, if it even should be possible. character names are much more important, since they are tied to an individual character, history and identity. basicly names that haven't been used since eve started should only now start to become available again. i wonder should ccp announce when new names have become available and give a list of those names or just clear the names at random times and not notify in any way. not notifying in any way might be best, so camping and ransoming names doesn't become a mini-profession."
"i think the corporations should be reset after a given time. i had an alt who had a corp for a while, then decided to shut it down. a player who had not logged in for 6 months suddenly became the sole member of a corp whose name i later wanted to recreate.for character name clearing, i could see that characters and their accounts that have both been inactive for 6 or more months and that have less than 2 million sp should also be deleted, freeing the way for people to claim the name of trial characters that decided against subscribing and such.all in all, supported."
"in the old days there were no minigin posts and the suggestion forums were a happy place full of laughing children who danced and laughed and played with gumdrop smiles all year long. now it is a wasteland of terrible green text and poorly thought-out ideas.this has made the forums boring and unpleasant.i propose one of a few things:1. an instant ban for use of limegreen tags2. a support group to help prevent terrible posting. as a user of goonfleet dot com i know a thing or two about horrible posters and would be happy to share this wisdom to improve the community at large3. just remove him from the game..."
"nerf tau ceti goonswarm federationim sensing hostility because nc cant nap we form voltron?"
"who needs voltron when we form"
"in the old days goonswarm wasnt around... and i mean... i distinctly remember a lack of laughing children until you guys got on the scene... so like... lets not play a blame game or anything."
"my name is daitengu and i support this message.(minigin, goonswarm has been around in one iteration or another since the game came out)"
"i guess you guys just tri tri and tri again then...hmmmmmmm =s"
"i did not even know you could post green text. it seems, yet again those of poor posting backrounds are trying to ruin the since of balance of the eve online community forums that goonswarm brings. it would be nice to at least have some sort of -rep system, so as to at least allow good posters to choose between the bad threads and good threads before diving into them. at least this way we can save the minds of our quality eve online posters."
"ok bart... how did the mass testing go? can you fit all of the nc into one system yet?"
"no but we can make a giant circlejerk in minecraft now and become relevant like voltron :>"
"im kind of surprised you still think i ever wanted to be \"relevant\" in your eyes or for that matter... anyone here...it is too easy to comment on the irony of this relevance statement (so often used against me and alliances i am in) in a thread titled \"nerf minigin\" in which you have posted twice already - and linked a photo where you appear somewhat obsessed by making a scene out of well... me :blushes: (im shy around crowds and such) but i guess it wasnt obvious enough to deter you from doing so.i guess ill go back to my irrelevant alliance, and be my regular irrelevant self. and in such a case as this is true, i would still be content."
"i'm having minigin's love child. the doctors told me there's only 78.4% chance of abnormalities, which seems good odds."
"foreword: the following is intended to be serious. even if the one or other might think it<U+FFFD>s a hoax or some kind of joke, it is not!as ccp made this game too addictive, i keep forgetting to grab that stupid pizza out of the oven. i blame ccp for being responsible for my food being burnt frequently.there are two logical solutions to that:1. ccp: make eve boring so i won<U+FFFD>t forget to grab my pizzas when i<U+FFFD>m playing eve 3am in the morning.2. ccp: introduce a tea timer function, maybe together with the calendar or dropping a notification mail or something. it may be an isk sink.btw. idea 2 could also be used for planetary interaction or something."
"i've got many issues with the watchlist:1) you can only remove 1 entry from the watchlist at a time. 2) sometimes the watchlist stops to function, which means in order to repopulate it you have to rejoin fleet. watchlist cannot be refreshed. 3) the watchlist looks like something which wasn't created together with the current ui, it feels like some kind of stop-gap solution to usability problems in the the overview. in other words, it feels like the lp store, as in totally under-developed. 4) 10 people only?"
"1) hold ctrl or shift to select multiple entries and right click on one of them to remove all at once.2) clicking the 'contacts' tab does refresh the list to some extent. it will certainly add any new contacts that have come online. however there seems to be some issue with clients missing the 'offline' notice for some contacts and having them remain online until you restart the client. i'd bug report it, but it's been around forever and is hard to reproduce at will.4) what? i have hundreds in mine."
"he's obviously talking about the fleet watchlist, for which none of your comments are true.yet another thing with the same name as other features, confusing everyone. cosmos anyone? plex?"
"supported.especially because of"
"more than 10 people would be great!"
"the capabilites of the alliance to manage itself through in-game tools is far too primitive and restrictive. directors, which are under the control of corporations and not necessarily alliance leadership, have way to much power. not the mention the capabilities of an executor are has useful as they should be.along with the obvious in bring alliance tools up-to-date with at least corporation tools and providing the ability to have actual alliance own and managed assets (ie allinace wallets and hangars).it would be nice if an alliance type government can be setup. the basic ways i'm seeing right now are to allow a republic, dictatorship, or federation (or a constitutional mixture of the three).the republic would allow for each corporation to appoint/elect 1-2 (or more as directed by the constitution) who vote on giving out roles, allocating money, change/applying taxes, declaring wars, etc. a republic implies that all stations and certain pos (such as jb pos's) are under the name of the alliance and not the corp and are managed by those with the proper alliance roles. also wallets and taxes would go to an alliance entity not managed held by any one corporation. this is possibly the least effective from an executive point of view but means that a single person with cannot destroy an alliance in minutes (unless of course it was voted to give him/her that power). accepting and kicking corporations would be handled by either a vote or alliance roles.a dictatorship puts all that above mention powers in the full control of the executor leadership. all assets, wallets, taxes go to the executor corporation and all alliance roles/stations/pos's are managed by the executor ceo/directors. this is possibly the most effecient alliance government as everything can be managed by a single person(s) and no votes are required. it also means that the executor has unlimited powers to exercise. accepting and kicking corporations would be handled by the executor ceo/directors.a federation would mean that everything is put into the powers of the corporations. there are no alliance assets, wallets, stations/pos, etc. the only thing that defines the corporations is the fact they share the same alliance flag. this is similar to how the alliance system is now. everything is built on trust between the corporations. if it happens that all the jbs/stations/cyno jammers were own by the same corporation and that corporation leaves, well we saw what happened with bob and goonswarm. accepting and kicking corporations would be handled by a vote of the corporations."
"anyone with multiple characters knows the pain of sharing items and information across multiple characters. you have to go through a contract system designed with many options, with fees and various scam-limiting measures. want to send a ship to an alt? well enjoy clicking through a dozen confirmation windows before being told the crystals are damaged and you can't do it anyway!so why not define your alts ingame? just define your main character to create you group. it can then invite your alts to join. characters can only join one 'alt group' and the only way to leave it is to transfer the character. joining the group allows access to assets on all other characters. now you want to send that ship over? just right click it and deliver to the appropriate character. the system could also potentially be used to share evemails - so if you don't have a beefy pc you can still keep watch for important messages from one client instead of several. what about bookmark collections? right click them (with a sensible limit) and copy them to an alt character!accounts that expire continue to be a part of the group, but cannot use any of the integration features (so you can't benefit from keeping an account unsubbed). they regain full use once subscribed again."
"xttz for csm"
"this is a good idea, and dont get me wrong... you are an idiot... but i can see this being a good addition some day... however... dont you think csms and ccp can use their time better looking at real problems with the game.i mean ignore the fact that you are perfectly fine with this game becoming more and more boring and tedious (even for yourself) so long as you continue \"winning\" under some bizzare definition. there are things which more time should be devoted to than this."
"the current ingame mechanic to address this issue is called \"player corporation\". it works remarkably well, though you are limited to exchanging goods through the corporate hangar in stations."
"this mechanic is based on needing specific roles. so yes, there is an ingame mechanic for this. just 90% of players can't use it."
"not so neccesary feature...contracts, trade, give money is a quick actions.well, anyway, why so complicated? group chars - and here it is, ane char can use the assets of all another, it's all on station, and in standard assets window, nothing tells that it's not belonging to current character. well, maybe some tiny icon on the item."
"just, no.besides, i dread to figure out what scammers could achieve with such a tool in their hands..."
"i support this little bee"
"no.so let's say mara and i want to be able to freely trade items between ourselves. what's to stop me from letting her put me in her alt group? now i can simply \"deliver to\" her and we're shuttling things across accounts with no paperwork involved.the only way i would support this is if it was only available to the other characters on the same account. that would at least make the lives of some people easier, and it would prevent my primary object of easily sharing goods across multiple players without going through the normal methods."
"i disagree with the initial proposal and most of the subsequent proposals as well.as a member of new eden's oldest and most well-known smuggling cartel, i have to say the most pressing issue with boosters right now is not production, not side-effects, and not customs.please, please fix contracting issues with contraband. it makes no sense that i can openly sell 100 units of strong blue pill on the market in jita, but one single unit of standard blue pill cannot be contracted in a backwater 0.1 system.as for gameplay mechanics of boosters themselves:boosters having delayed side-effects is not the way to go, though i can see what you are trying to accomplish. delaying side effects until after the booster is finished will lead to long periods of waiting out penalties while bouncing from safespot to safespot, or docked in station.a better way to combine a penalty-free period with boosters would be to have a short grace period upon injection (the rush)where the bonus is applied immediately, but not the side-effecte.g. standard exile injections might give 60 seconds of penalty-free time upon injection, and the remaining 29-59 minutes of time will be subject to full penalties. this gives users a distinct reason to hold off injecting until they are in combat, yet allows more risk-averse pilots to inject early, see what effects they get, and then decide if they want to engage or not.this sort of mechanic also allows for the possible addition of skills to extend the initial rush period, or tweaking rush periods by booster strength.adding more boosters needs to be carefully considered and evaluated with caution. there are currently 16 booster regions, producing 8 varieties of boosters in 4 strengths. adding additional boosters will either require adding more booster regions, and thus changing the balance of regional value, or adding new blueprints and reactions to the existing regions, thus diluting the supply of existing boosters to feed production of the new types. neither of which is a particularly good solution.on a more social-oriented level, i would like to note that the single biggest issue in getting more pilots to use boosters, in my experience, is not related in any way to any of the gameplay mechanics surrounding them. it is simply that many pilots do not know they exist. boosters are the dirty secret of eve, no one talks about them, few people know where to get them or who to contact, and fewer people know how to interpret attributes tab and the side-effects listing correctly.before you go about making changes to booster mechanics, you should look into changing people's knowledge of boosters.-frak"
"boosters need.....a boost"
"what boosters really need is cheap, legal versions that can easily find their way into the hands of carebears in high sec. think of it like this, when a drug deal wants to get someone hooked, they give them cheaply priced, decent quality stuff."
"if you really want to develop drug addiction in eve introduce the attribute enhancers that already are in the database. imagine how many people that would sell their own mothers to to keep going on +10 perception boosters that only last 8h each."
"the player base should police their own.take out contract #2 with a merc corp and get your e-peen back.ccp is strapped for cash as it is to pay for more people to carebare contracts for the community."
"i'll let you in on a huge secret: there is a solution already. ccp implemented it on day one of eve. if you want to know what it is, just send 250mil isk to me and i will mail you with the answer that has eluded so many people for years."
"well...:)i just thinking. what if a compression with rorqual will require lvl v skills?1. it's a capital ship, so it's not so long to train, compared to other skills, and again, combat capital ships. and not all of processings so needed for one person.2. it's will be very cool to have a perfect rorqual so leave lvl 4 to diggers and let one most competent miner do his work"
"sorry, wrong post. please delete"
"thread locked on request of op."
"+1just for stealth bases and being able to actually hide amoung the thousands of star systems and not being instafound (find the stealth local rant if you can )"
"the purpose of this thread is to announce a csm working meeting and permit delegates to post issues they wish to raise at that meeting. note: meeting 011 was abandoned due to lack of quorum (present: myself, trebor, teadaze, alpha12125, helen highwater, and elvenlord; no absence notices received).csm5 meeting 012 will take place sunday 28 november 2010 @ 17:00 eve time. all csm5 delegates and alternates are invited to attend. the deadline for delegates to submit issues for the agenda is saturday 27 november 2010 at 20:00. to get an issue added to the agenda, csm delegates must post the issue title in this thread and link it to the the issue's csm wiki page (not its thread in these forums). a maximum of 9 issues will be considered in the meeting. delegates are encouraged to post multiple issues; issues will be addressed in rotating order, 1 per delegate, until the max is reached.note to community: csm working meetings rotate between 2nd saturday/4th sunday dates. =============================agendaa. introduction-- roll call-- remindersb. issuestbdc. other business-- ccp deliverables from june summit (status update)-- december summit csm roster (status update)-- dev priorities list for next release planning meetings (status update)-- csm issue wiki's/ccp backlog correlation (status update)-- csm monthly \"bullet point\" updates (in jita park, at athena olympus's suggestion)-- assembly hall proposal challenges and suggestions-- tbd"
"heres some issues for you to discuss... other than roll calls...1. logistic ships2. jumpbridges/general ease of numbers moving through regions3. supercaps4. csms (how inept it seems to be...)5. alliance tournament (make more of them - 2 a year please)6. standings.good luck."
"<edit>i see your threads in the assembly hall and will keep an eye on them."
"can we get another 4 or 5 current csms to quit in time for me to get a trip to iceland..... ;-)i think i was #16 in the last election.....issler"
"goodluck - the way it's going i'd be making sure my passport is in order & you got some holiday time tucked up your sleeve! you could be on the next plane out!"
"and why is that a reason to step down from the csm?the players trusted you to have a good impact on the csm and to get their voice (through you) to ccp.also - don't you think you could achive more and fight better against the worst of the microtransaction ideas when you still are csm member and not stepped down?and what the heck have microtransactions to do with your wonderful events?? look at 'hats for eve' for example! why wouldn't be that any worse or less fun with microtransactions? why would your wonderful soe events be worse?i can see why you say that microtransactions and plex are bad, but i don't get it why you would be that badly affected.anyway, sorry to see you quitting. best of luck in your future and thanks for all the wonderful events!"
"i'm confused... you don't want to pay to play, and you don't want to play to pay?"
"what the hell are microtransactions? are they just litteraly what they sound like? or is it something worse?"
"good for you, nice to see someone standby their principals. i did the same when coh/cov decided to do the same, now look at the state they are in. what i think a lot of people don't understand is rmt is a slippery slope. today it's the remap but what if tomorrow i can plex for sp or a titan? i will personally watch this carefully and when it starts to get into that nickel & dime nonsense so many other mmo's with subs & rmt try to do i will also walk.the biggest problem with the \"no mt!\" argument, i can already do these things in eve. i can rmt a ton of plex's, sell them, and buy a character (the equivalent of plex for sp imo) or buy that titan. it's not spelled out to the player base but that system exists today and has for a long time. i personally feel that the entire mmo genre will eventually be hurt as players will get tired of player advantages do to personal prosperity and burnt out on companies reaching into their pockets for every little pit of content. it's a greed that is not exclusive to mmo's, look at the growing dlc market.once again i wish you well t'amber and thank you for taking a stand. it's one i am not ready to take, yet, but respect your decision."
"microtransactions are the current fotm in game pricing. 20-subscription.html a game company eliminating the $15/month subscription fee and seeing a 500% increase in revenue got the attention of competitors.dust 514 was announced to be f2p (free to play): without a subscription income (and in-game advertising not yet common ) the revenue comes from selling virtual items/benefits. (/troll this is more accessible than eve's model of subscribe and train learning skills for two months. ) on a practical matter, eve has been on the micro transaction side for quite a while. you can buy characters with whatever skill points your budget allows. plex to isk to purchasing whatever celestial steed i mean ship or module you need. currently, anyone running l1s or mining purely for the 100k/hour and not enjoyment are doing so because they value their time at less than a half cent per hour. similarly, as a new player your budget determines how much you mitigate the learning skills of eve; stick with the +3 implants you got in your first hour or eventually have +5s?economist may think about the inflation and will the isk faucets and sinks balance out but it is hard to see even ccp getting the faucet/sink wrong to the extend to have much impact on the size of the eve economy.on an emotional level, some really do not like the idea. ccp proposing eliminating the middleman (i.e. selling you skills directly instead of selling you plex that you convert into isk and use to buy a toon ), raised the visibility of money for ingame advantage. ccp was naive if they did not expect pushback. many games that remain subscription based (e.g. w*w) do not allow you to use real money to buy ingame advantage. and even have limits on what advantages you can transfer ingame. eve online has gotten past that quite a while ago. which imho ymmv is a good thing; perhaps because eve's older customer base is more familiar with employment and money?--addendum: after writing the above, it turns out champion online has gone f2p. so funding games from microtransactions is a trend. which is different than saying it is a good idea of course, but over time it may change customer's perceptions of microtransactions."
"respecto7"
"the secret is not to sit back and \"watch carefully\". the secret is to get involved, and make sure the csm is echoing your sentiment into ccps ears at every possible occasion: \"ccp, we already have as much mt as makes sense in this game.\"on the one hand we have lotro which significantly increased its short-term income by going f2p with all content being bought after the player starts adventuring. on the other hand we have d&d online which fell on its face due to all content being bought after the player starts adventuring.eve online already has microtransactions - you can buy anything in the game with real money. buy plex, trade for isk, use isk to buy stuff you want.the players need champions in the csm to keep the \"no neural remaps, no sp for isk\" opinion in ccps faces. players quitting the game over this issue only means that the anti-mt voice gets diluted."
"claiming the reason you wont deal with me is trolling while you deal daily with alliances such as goonswarm and test make me believe your issue isnt that im trying to troll you, which i assure you i am not... but with the fact that you dont want to answer the questions im asking.these are questions such as \"what do you think are the biggest problems with this game atm?\" and \"what ideas do you have about ways of solving these problems?\" and \"have you made an attempt to put these ideas forward during your many trips to iceland?\".if of course you dont have answers to these... then its fine you can continue pretending that the reason you wont talk to me is because im a troll... if you have good answers to these you shouldnt have a problem talking to me... or any other \"trolls\".btw saying the reason your opinions have more weight than i do because you got to iceland irl yearly and i dont are pretty terrible reasons. ill tell you the reasons i havnt gone thus far... i just turned 21 this year, i dont have 4000 dollars to spend flying from australia to iceland so that i can spend 3 days trying to get gms there to wake up and realise whats going on with this game, when you should be doing that as your duty to this community.i guess being able to just order your countless minions to vote for you in an election they dont actually care about gets you that great sense of hummility where you just ignore the community you are meant to be working for."
"biggest reason a large 0.0 alliance has isk problems is either the leadership is spending it on their own supercaps, account subs, etc or even worse rmting tech moon profits."
"minigin for csm next year."
"lol, you're pretty much spot on with this one. hooyah six day shore leave."
"make an assembly post and suggest it."
"recommended revision:in light of the csm minutes and response from ccp, i would like to add a revision to this to accommendate the newer players under the scc insurance envelope. -----new players would be immune to scc suppression. new players would be defined as players under the 1.6m skillpoint point already defined as the point in which new players stop getting their 100% skill bonus. this is so it can not only provide a window of understanding but also be directly tied to the in game event marker in a capsuleer's life. also in the insurance tutorial an additional page will be added to the end to denote scc suppression and that its immunity ends at 1.6m skillpoints.scc suppression would be defined as scc, a division of concord, would not pay players basic insurance when the insurance is due to be paid when the ship loss is due to that of concord police action. this means that should you insure your ship you would get the difference between uninsured and insured amounts.reasoning: even experienced players can find themselves in an instance where attacking a target unauthorized by concord in high security space happens. while this reasoning can lead to scc paying some insurance to those who still insist upon suicide ganking, it would remove the profit being balanced out for such actions by insurance alone. so in essence it accommodates the chances of eve with the legitimate (but unauthorized by concord) attacking of players in high security space and does not punish the act of buying insurance."
"1. not as easy as preventing yourself from being a stupid victim.2. so if your bank gets robbed and u get shot, do u expect the swat team to show up in 20 seconds when they're miles away too? and how did they get to the vault so easily since u didn't take enough precautions? sounds like insurance fraud to me. great comparison to real life from a science fiction game u got there...in that case, like ppl said, void insurance entirely--low sec, 0.0, high sec pirate, low sec pirate, everywhere, everyone. no real insurance company would exist to lose more money than they gain, especially if they still have to pay out even if no insurance was purchased. and since u're not partial to either side, there's your sensible solution."
"/supported"
"to be honest, you're right. fix insurance or get rid of it."
"/supported i am new player in eve ... i was killed last night in jita in a coercer (pod also) with no fit and no cargohold. i saw my killer was usual gank profile -10 security (how the hell he can be in 0.9 system ?? i know now but at first i was very surprise). then i began to study gank system to understand ... and i was very surprise to see than there is absolutly no penality to gank people in hight sec. they kill each other before concord to loot there ships, they have ship assurance ... i call that an exploit definitly. lol in that case its useless to call that hight sec ... better to put all systems like 0.0 lol i seriously want to stop playing eve, not only for that loose (1 month work for my basics implants) but because i can imagine later working hard to buy nice stuff to be destroy without reason in hight sec by a random gank. its more than annoying ... its only useless. no thank you."
"seems to be alot of these troll stories appearing, if this isnt a troll then you didnt get blown up by a normal suicide ganker but an idiot"
"no i was collateral killed by smartbomb"
"i support that insurance is canceled if you are killed by concord. you are doing a criminal act and being reimbursed for it. isn't that kinda weird. it makes me think the insurance company is kinda evil promoting such acts. and looking at it as a real company, this person insures a ship for 10m (the person knows its going to be blow up in a little bit) and they go out and suicide gank someone, the company pays the person 60m to replace their ship and do it again? seems like a major loss in profit for the insurance company. i think a real company would put in a claus like \"it the insured item is lost or destroyed in a crimanal act that is corrected by concord then the contract is canceled and insurence for the the item is not paid to owner\""
"no."
"noalso there are still loads of people out there who have no idea this is going on, and i talked to a few people yesterday who were all shocked and felt betrayed by ccp.im even strongly against cosmetics because its one short step away, too easy for them to one day just decide \"ok whatever\" also... i want nipples and a giant **** on my head for free."
"no.mt are terrible."
"nosince 'cosmetic only' seems to hold some sort of weird other meaning in devlandic.. i don't say it often but this would be the death of eve as it is, and the death of eve as a worthwhile game for years of playing, might stil be fun for stints of a couple months between other game releases iso the other way round.again ccp you astound me by suggesting something so wrong on such a basic level.."
"nonot another maple story online please."
"no."
"no."
"no"
"noeve should stay epic for ppl who love this game, and not become a microtrans ***** like other mmos..."
"nobeing able to remap is usefull true and mybe we make decision that we shouldn't of on planing our yearly remap and skills, but thats the way eve is, you have to think ahead and plan. if you take away one of the core eliments where this phlosophy is ingrained, you lessening the game as a whole.and as for micro transactions for clolors hats and clothes i say a big no if people want those items let us players build them."
"no with my 3 accounts"
"no i like the game the way it is"
"initially i thought about cosmetics only were doable but knowing how ccp works, i'd prefer to leave that door closed. so....no!"
"no thank you."
"couldn't care lessactually what i would like to see is a 8 lazor fraction battleship you can only buy with plex"
"no"
"no(if subscription goes away, cosmetic only)"
"no."
"no!"
"ive seen this thing \"microtransactions\" being discussed, but have yet to see an explanation for what it is. i must be searchig in the wrong places. link explaining it please?"
"no! it'll change the atmosphere of eve entirely, and it's a slippery slope."
"some devblog i missed?"
"/supported"
"quit being stoopid. this topic is about blasters, not about boosting gallente top speed. and the loadout i posted was showing that the deimos can do damage at 25k with blasters the same way a vaga can with ac, and another fit i could post with the thorax could do more damage at 25k with blasters than a stabber with ac. why don't you realize that i'm right about blasters and that the deimos' speed and agility have nothing to do with this topic. yes i said a deimos can do whatever a vaga can do, but i didn't mean speedwise, obviously. i just meant what i proved, that it can deal lots of damge at 25k with blasters.look, i'm right.edit - also, your vaga loadout sacrifices a lse for an invuln just so you can fit 425mm ac and try and get as much dps as my deimos loadout. i also notice you fit a dc instead of a nano, which anyone who's played this game before should that a a saltworthy vaga pilot would choose a nano over dc2, unless you really want the ehp, which in this case you do, to try and win the argument.edit # 2 - look, i'm not saying that gallente are a perfect pvp race, i'm just saying that if you really need to boost something, it definatly is not blasters."
"no you said a deimos can do what a vaga does, which is hit from falloff whilst kiting, she said thats idiotic. i personally would love to see this thorax fit.also saying stoopid that way certainly makes you look clever"
"i know i said a deimos can do what a vaga does, and i know i meant hit from falloff whilst kiting, and i know she said that's idiotic. i also know she's idiotic, because the fit i just posted can kite just fine, all you have to do is show up and be a little faster than your target, and with that much damage the fight will be over before he even has a chance of reaching you, not to mention the bonus to mwd cap use the deimos and thorax get which enables them to run their mwds far longer than a vaga.heres the thorax fit. its got 440 dps, 21k ehp, goes 1400 m/s, and does 230 dps pat 25k. [thorax, stabbarax]magnetic field stabilizer iitracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iidamage control iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivewarp disruptor iilarge shield extender iiheavy ion blaster ii, null mheavy ion blaster ii, null mheavy ion blaster ii, null mheavy ion blaster ii, null mheavy ion blaster ii, null mmedium anti-em screen reinforcer imedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender ihammerhead ii x5an alternative is a nano instead of dcu, but preferance."
"like i said, gallente are fine because of drones. no need to fix blasters, unless you want to specifially to fly the enyo, which is a good little ship regardless."
"no, they aren't because drones aren't as flexible for damage selection as missiles, as useful for large fleet battles and long-range engagements as lasers, projectiles or lolhybrids, and heavy dps variants are only useful in the same engagement envelope as autocannons or lolblasters, and even then are likely to be quickly destroyed in order to negate incoming dps.in other words, like the other two gallente weapons systems, they are mediocre at best."
"outside of the box fixes:increase the damage bonus that a magnetic field stabilizer bestows. there's no reason heat sinks, gyros, and mfs all have to be equal. this plays to tank or gank too.reduce the fitting requirements for blasters. a sawed-off shotgun is alot easier to carry then the ghostbuster's plasma pack.remove the penalties for rigs dealing with active armor tanking.increase the chance of critical hits when using blasters. noone jumped at this idea though so...after those i would look at tracking before adjusting ranges and such."
"just compared mega pulse to heavy neutraon and the neutron takes up 400 less pg and only uses up like 7 more cpu than mega pulses so yeah i guess a sawed off shotgun is easier to carry"
"alright, it seems you people want to kee arguing even though you are so wrong it's stupid.to those of you wanting a blaster fix, i pose this question:would you rather fly a cerberus over a deimos/ishtar?answer that question."
"i would definitely fly a cerberus over a deimos, and the ishtar is slightly irrelevant to this question as we are talking about hybrids and although ishtars can and do use hybrids they arent used as a primary weapon system."
"that's goofy, man."
"is it? the races in terms of powergrid for each ship class are ranked: amarr - minmatar ------------> gallente - caldarithat 400 pg is not as significant as it sounds. and of course there's the whole 300% more range for 9% less dps thing going for pulse lasers."
"your strawman is bad and u should feel bad."
"for pvp if i had the skills i would rather fly the cerb over diemost and ishtar.the diemost is called that for a reason. they die the most and are not that useful when alive.sentry drones are not useable for sniper hac fleets reason you are active aligned out and thus you lose your drones when you warp or die because you chose not to active aligne out. also heavies are to slow for close range hac fleets and lose them each time you warp out. so after about 5 minutes of fighting you will be out of yor main damage dealing drones and the op just started; in null sec you cant dock at hostile stations to replenish your drones you have to take it first.pve ishtar all the way for guristas (though you arnt using hybrids just a civy auto cannon or something like that for aggro)ps:gallente gun boat problems is two fold poor ship (powergrid for example) and a poor weapon system.pss:i dont think i ever seen a hostile eagle(another hybrid boat).edit:well prefering the cerb would be for sheild hac fleets (if i cant chose one of the mini/amarr hacs), but for ahac i would go with the diemost only because it can mount a slightly better tank. though compaired to the zealot/muninn it is epic fail.edit2:i dont fly hacs but i flown with and fought against them for quite a while now, and most hac fleets are zealots with a few muninns/vaga thrown in with a varying amount of logi ships (guardian/scimi depending on fleet type)."
"vagabond do the same damage at 25 km with faction ammo. but if vagabond load long range ammo too (as deimos in your fit) it will do more than x1.5 damage.comparing pure turret damage in dps graph it is about 200dps (deimos) vs 330dps (vagabond)90% web was nerfed, nano was nerfed (it was important condition for successful blaster usage - fast approaching and holding target). after many changes blasters were not revised. it is time to adjust blasters to new eve combat environment. last projectile boost was awesome. it is time to revise hybrid weapon.p.s. take a look on small gangs s in low-sec. compare percentage of minmatar/amarr/drakes/gallente."
"long overdue."
"a machariel as a bs is same big as a carrier... looks really bad if you see them on the same grid./supported"
"supported"
"lmao at the pervert agreed but i would like to get a stipper/sex slave on my ship xd id be like chode from tripping the rift. but not really."
"you have to remember that even tho you don't see it there is kids playing this game and there is parents that have kids playing this game so nudity is not an option, even tho i would support the more realistic appearance. lol"
"well their parents shouldnt let their kids play this game then."
"not talking about playing and the parent thing i ment like if a kid accidentally sees it. also a few year ago ccp said they aren't going to keep this a family type game so no nudity."
"it looks cool too"
"eh guy you are crazy to use again laser ...on the amarr ship it's better to use now artillery ...omen artillery no problem capa and fitting and nice dpsharbinger artillery the sameand the best of the best is apocalypse artillery no problem with the tanking (you have enough capa) you make hudge alpha.now they are only one weapons to use artillery for all. you have only bonus with this weapons ..."
"maller needs love too."
"would like a drone bay and a laser damage bonus on the maller that would be nice"
"omen base stats are fine, but please for the love of god give it more fitting room.50 more cpu and pwg would barely bring it in line with other t1 cruisers.also, fix the harb's 7th turret."
"deffinetly supported"
"he's right, the omen is ****ty right now. when comparing it to stabber, caracal, vexor, it just doesn't bring anything new to the table. right now anything the omen can do the caracal does better, except being a shield nano ***, but neither of them are meant for that anyway. fix that omen"
"just needs more fitting room."
"omen has needed a boost for so long it's unreal. supported."
"this is quite ridiculous. it is almost impossible to fly the omen without electronics 5, engineering 5, weapon upgrades 5, advanced weapon upgrades 4, and energy grid upgrades 4 -- nevermind fitting the essential t2 guns to this ship for access to scorch ammo.explain to me precisely how many pilots will still be seriously interested in flying the omen at the point where they have all those skills? the only viable loadouts for this ship are nano setups, because nano modules don't use fitting resources. that's gotta stop."
"support"
"wtf ccp"
"i use that argument for actual attempts to force a play style not for a single day event, using it here just makes it and you seem silly. not wanting to possibly 'lose' a single day of playing is fine but really pathetic that you can't see the possible fun in such a thing and are so averse to it."
"why not make a module for your ship that requires alot powergrid and cpu that makes you not show up in local unless you talk in it. then to fix just warp out then jump out then jump back in. and as a counter have a sov upgrade that can disable this"
"interesting idea.however, sbu spam will become more popular. it would encourage people to spam sbus in random systems and more blob fleets will be assembled for taking down undefended sbus that are placed there for the sole purpose of removing local (a form of griefing). that means less true pvp, more blobs, more boring generic \"take down the sbu\" fleets and much less fun.it also might lead to overpopulating certain areas of space with limited sov infrastructure that is inhabited with mainly \"carebears\".another downside would be mega-alliance disbanding (for any reason including spies and disagreements in the leadership) or losing the sov war (catch region right now). it would take some time to rebuild infrastructure there and removing local from unclaimed systems would not help.just my thoughts...o/"
"hi, yes, hello"
"another couple of suggestions- limit the number of activations per min/hour (cooldown timer) - can allow small gangs or solo travelers to move quickly still (if this was indeed intended) and slows down with larger numbers.- make it similar to wormholes in that you need less mass to go through it or something, so people need to offline mwds/plates or just have it so that they have to offline those things anyway. - dont really like this one but just throwing it out there."
"jumbbridge spam is really getting ridiculous, specially as anyone with standings can use them, it should really be limited to alliance members owning jumpbridge just like cyno generators."
"break the jump bridges entirely. cynos and jump drives can go too. i miss good old-fashioned freighter-run logistics trips through 0.0. jump clones.... those also should go."
"/not supportedi like jump bridges, they are already ridiculous expensive with the new sov costs and often out of fuel, without being able to refuel to most users.there is no need to limit the freedom of using them.instead make the universe bigger, we need more systems."
"more systems wouldnt help much if you can just curb stomp as easily as you can do atm, because you can still cut down 50-60jumps trips to 4-5 (jump) bridges.thats one of the reason why wormhole space isnt connected via gates or that you cant cyno jump to it. to prevent the blob just to run over you and then jump home again. taking a wh space setup requires a bit more effort and planning."
"with bigger i mean bigger.so big that even you cant reach all places with a few jump.check the real universe this is really big.eve universe is pathetic small."
"that would lead me to the idea of lowering the cycle time of repers which would lead to more microing for the logi pilot as he now can't just turn his reps on he has to time the cycles and small ships could get alphaed a lot easier shifting logis more into the endgame battleship fleets"
"let me be clear on what the issue here is... because people are being naieve in my eyes. the issue is how cost effective logistics are, and the spike in use of them. if you are an fc (as i was) and you have a choice to order a bunch of people to join your gang in snipers or logistics... the likelihood that you would ask them for logistics is growing. eventually we will get to the stage where a)if you are solo pvping - not that you would... but assume you are... you will almost certainly have to bust through logistics to kill anything.b)if you are fighting a gang all it will ever come down to is \"how many logistics i have\" and wether they are asleep at the keyboard or not.let me reference this to nano-age play. im sure many of you remember the outcry to nerf them because they were \"unkillable\" the reason this nerf was unjustified in my eyes was that there were easy counters to it, and the actual piloting required and ounce of skill / decision making.the weight of logistics ships pretty much get rid of any of this. wether it be small gang or large. further the counters are relatively outlandish, and are difficult - almost impossible to pull off against a gang that isnt consisted entirely of people who have no idea whats going on.now i understand why people dont want this idea to go through... because you all use logistics ships very heavily now. well let me remind you, before they were fotm we were running gangs with dual logis and up when we had the numbers and the results were undeniably awesome. but in all my time flying with them i noticed something, it was much easier than nanostuff, far more cost efficeent, the hardest thing in the entire setup was counting dps and counting tank then factoring in friggin ecm drones (which also deserve a nerf - hi would you like to spend 20k to be invincible forever?!?!?!?) so dont get me wrong i get the reluctance to want this change, but you are all going to have to make a choice now, do you want this game to get easier? do you want it to be all based on numbers? do you not want to be able to make decisions in your fights that have more influence than just \"ill bring a logistics ship\".because we are heading there, we are going to get to a stage where fights will get beyond boring and when we get there, there will be no one to blame. because the game is exactly what we wanted it to be.- ps. i actually do kinda like the idea of lowering cycle time on the reps even if they buff the rep amount to compensate a little, just because then it would actually require a bit more decision making but again, its mostly with the force trying to crack logis (which will usually be both groups) but still... i like that it would lead to more decision making"
"wtf?some words... ewar, neutralizers, bombs, alpha. make sence?t2 bs with triage module? :)"
"so tell me... did you work out these perfect counters via your 11 kills and 9 losses?"
"how does his ammount of losses and kills make his points less valid? those are good counters, and there are more tactics that can be employed very succesfully. it's not like logis are answer for all, they can be countered, even without altering fleet composition."
"his point isnt less valid... it is just wrong... and he would know this if he had experiance of it.neuts and ewar are virtually useless against logi gangs for reasons so obvious i wont even bother stating.smartbombs are not effective at all because they require your adversary to be remarkably aweful (i mean sure it works... but you cant just rely on your opponents being bad and thus the counter is made) - and perhaps most telling is that he ignored bombs/bombers which have been used somewhat effectively in the past, however again its so easy to not get bombed...the fact that logis have such small sig radius and usualy do well to keep their radial high means that alphaing them isnt nearly as simple as you are claiming...yes it can work and i have employed the use of tps as well as alpha ships to crack logi gangs before, but even with tps alpha ships and even ewar trying to harass it is still far far too easy for the weight of logis to hold their tanks for long enough that they dont lose many before they can retreat or whatever.what this tells me is that most people want eve to move further down the easymode path. i cant say this is good because i personaly want to see eve go back to being a dangerous risky game thats a lot of fun. in my eyes this risk adverse more survival based game (see rigs/hp buff/etc) is far less exciting and challenging than it used to be/was invisioned to be by ccp (\"you arnt safe in eve\") but i guess i was the naieve one to believe that players wouldnt let ccp make this game more and more mainstreme and boring without so much as a whimper.and you all think its microtransactions that will ruin eve... what on earth are you trying to preserve now anyway?im not used to being wrong =("
"the idea isn't as badas these people are saying."
"your fixes of the problem are too dramatic and cause more problems like the not letting logistic ships repair each other. the opposing fleet would then target logistic ships first then pick off the rest.i think the problem you brought up is there just your solutions are bad. here are my solutions. i suggest solution 2 over solution 1.my solution one: add a very very small diminishing return for the number of ships reping a single ship. not the number of modules. pros: the logistics would not be as strong and fights would go alittle faster. and having a large ammount of logistic ships would begin to cause less and less effect on the battlecons: the load on the server would increase causing more lag. and logistic ship players and tons of pvp players will whine to ccpmy solution one result: not suggested too much lag in pvp right nowmy solution two: make it so that having a logistics module fitted to your ship would slightly reduce the amount of repairs you get. this will cause less people to have their pvp ships and 1 logistic item for support of others. but have the logistic specific ships almost negate this effectpros: a great fall in the number of reps due to the fall in ships that have a single reper attached to their ship, while not making logistics a huge target.cons: slightly more lag but not much and again more whine also causes the ships that use a single reper to be less efficient at pvp.my solution two: better than one but still needs work. but i would say its doable. also the problem gets fixed with little hit to normal gameplay"
"i like the stacking penalty idea. glad you posted it. i think it would maintain logis effectiveness particularly as a force multiplier esp in small gangs, but will definatly curb those hour long fights where the only casualties are cosmetic."
"how about a weapon supercharger.a top slot module that swaps dps for alpha.when activated weapons do 4x damage but have a 5 times longer rof.weapon must be activated before it starts building up power and fires at the end of the cycle to prevent its abuse in a precharged mode in suicide gank situations.build up cycle can be cancelled and weapons fire if the supercharger is clicked off."
"hmm like the idea but that would **** the non buffered ships too much. too much of a super weapon against smaller ship. also look up the new doomsday set up. your idea is already in effect. only usable by titans tho"
"change cap transfer cycles to work like shield transfers instead of armor transfers (cap deposited at start of cycle instead of end). neuts will devestate cap transfer chains more easily, leading people to increase use the somewhat less rep effective logi models. done."
"it's called artillery."
"im keen on a new type of ew that lowers the effectiveness of remote reps / cap transfer so it wont be as simple as \"ohh x is taking damage, everyone rep him\".anyway ill support because since the alliance tourny almost everyone flies a logi and tbh this game for the longest time has been numbers > skill"
"i do so love these \"i fail at eve, ccp, save me!!!!\" proposals. i remember an ahax fleet i was in over the summer where our logi wing was absolutely devastated in short order when our enemy turned out to be fitting short range weapons, painters and webs on their battlecruisers. or another fight where our logis were barely effective because the enemy brought a lot of scorpions to the fight. or another where they were hugely alpha-heavy, and our logi chain simply couldn't keep up with the incoming alpha and by the time someone broadcast and we got them locked up and got a rep cycle on them, they were probably dead. but, obviously, ccp needs to intervene."
"/me supported"
"supported"
"/signed"
"/signedi didn't participate at all in the contest, and i like the 15 semi-finalist selections. but of course, i remember seeing a few better ones that should be there. but my main concern is that deviantart (not ccp) is judging the art works. i feel that it's best for ccp's art department to judge the works rather than rely on an art site that has nothing to do with eve."
"/signedi flipped through a lot of these entries for weeks during the contest, saw a lot of kewl ones, and kewl but no-chance-in-hell ones and i was utterly shocked when basically all of the ones i felt were really possible eve ships were in there. i like deviantart as a platform for providing all kinds of artists room to show their stuff, but this is eve and this is serious business"
"what the **** were they thinking"
"you should let them know if microtransactions go through they dont have the money excuse. and as for manpower, im sure the community is more than willing to step in and help out, just in watching things from the starcraft community, there are streams going practically every night and casters doing things for free etc etc. im almost certain there are people in eve willing to help out in such ways."
"yeah, t3s need to be able to mine too"
"i support the idea.but i agree that it needs to have less returns compared to the hulk so that hulk miners like me won't feel frustrated. think about it, it takes a lot of training time and isk to be able to fly a hulk (let alone the modules and crystals).maybe with a t3 exhumer, it could offer some defenses that the hulk doesn't offer. what the hulk lacks in defenses, it makes up for it in yield. with a t3 exhumer, what it lacks in mining yield, it could make up for it in warp strength (like the skiff) along with better resistance or maybe even able to use electronic counter measures."
"well, support ofc, but i would say it should be able to outmine a hulk.why? 1. it<U+FFFD>s tech iii - tech iii is supposed to be better than t22. losing a tiii ship comes with losing sp. that makes it more \"expensive\" to lose one.further i would suppose it has a lesser cargohold than a hulk, to avoid that new ship being misused as a ganksafe afk empire hauler.maybe a warpstrength of about 3, and the possibility for a nullifier sub, to give it a chance(for some reasons, mining barges are usually primaries, probably because they don<U+FFFD>t shoot back ? i suppose it<U+FFFD>s a thing like ppl with small *****es that own big guns)then i<U+FFFD>d propose it has some _real_ bonus on gas cloud harvesting. not like that 1.5 seconds/cycle you get with a 100m implant in your head.last point would be that it should have either a good sensor strength, so it would be hard to scan down, or it should have a cruiser-like align-time. ships description:soon after the mysterious and dangerous wormhole space was discovered, people began to build ships from salvage part from that strange ancient species, called the sleeper drones. while these drones were at first considered to be perfect fighter drones, it took some time until bougale baille (highest level ore agent) could get his hands on some of these sleeper salvage parts. he quickly discovered, that sleeper drones had some way superior mining and processing facilities inbuilt, probably with the purpose of replicating and replacing damaged drones, and he began to reverse engineer that technology.following the earlier constructions of sleeper-based ships, he began developing the <insert new hull name here>, creating a master piece of mining equipment."
"/supportedall good ideas, i would like to have \"something better\" then the hulk, smaller, configurable, faster, specialized for dangerous places.. sort of a small killer mining barge.lots of skills needed also very expensive, but somehow better then the old tech ii hulk. something what you would expect from a tech iii ship."
"i support a t3 exhumer. how the hell are the sleepers getting the stuff to build more ships that we are blowing up."
"dear eve,i am a big fan of the assault ships, and i am glad that the fourth bonus has been submitted as a priority, but i would like to share my idea of what some of the fourth bonusses should be.jaguar - the jaguar is a great ship, but when you look at the stats of a vagabond compared to a cynabal, they are quite similar, the cynabal being superior in most areas. i think that the same should be said about the jaguar when you compare it to a dramiel. now, i love the current bonuses the jaguar gets, and the slot arrangement and everything, but one thing stands out - the speed. the jaguar, while fast, isn't that fast. with a microwarpdive equipped, the jaguar only goes 200m/s faster than the vagabond. my idea is to nerf the base speed of the jaguar, and for the fourth bonus give it a bonus to max velocity. again, i'm not trying to make it as fast as a dramiel, i am just saying that instead of going 2600m/s with a microwarpdrive, somewhere in the region of 3100 - 3200 m/s would be a better deal.ishkur - the ishkur is almost perfect as it is, but the ishtar gets a bonus to drone hitpoints and damage. i think that would be a little bit overkill on the ishkur, so a simple bonus to drone damage, no hitpoints, would be optimal.wolf - the wolf is a devastating gunboat. my idea for the wolf is to give a tracking speed bonus. the rest of the assault ships i am not sure about, but these are my ideas for these three assault ships."
"if you've got a better idea, shout it out please, also supported"
"the last thing the jaguar needs is more speed."
"nope, the first thing the jaguar needs is more speed."
"wheres the support? wheres the fire?"
"i love the wolf. if it got a tracking bonus i'd be pretty damn happy. i'd say flip the optimal/ falloff bonus between the wolf/ jaguar as well. a 300 dps wolf w/ 12km of falloff or a 240 dps wolf w/ 18km of falloff is close to op."
"there is already a thread about this.a link to that thread can be found in the hot topics of the assembly hallplease do not post multiple topics of the same subject and keep all suggestions to the original thread."
"my jag does 4,167m/s before any speed implants or gang boosts.no change necessary.um, no. 'nuff said. if you arent tracking then you should l2fly.great so you boost the 3 ships that are already best in class and offer no suggestions for the ships that are broken in the class. n1.not supported.edit: ***k. trolled."
"looks like someone agrees with you"
"greetings,i fully agree and understand why a wreck can be freely salvaged by anyone without being aggressed to the wreck owner. however what i have never managed to fully understand is why a wreck belongs to the mission owner if anyone else kills that npc. i just dont understand the mechanics of this and furthermore i cannot see how it fits into the game - it does not make sense (to me anyway)i would like to propose this be reverted to its original position whereby the person who destroyed the ship is marked as its owner.i know this is probably asking alot but if you dont ask you dont get....many thanks.kro"
"they see me krollin...the hatin'..."
"i may be wrong but the last time i ran a mission in a mixed corp fleet, the wrecks were tied back to the corp of the fleet member that got the final blow on the npc, not the person who started the mission.has that been changed?or am i misunderstanding what you're saying."
"i did someone else's fw mission the other night.they had bugged out and were not even in local.all the wrecks i created belonged to them.not sure when it changed or even if it was a bug."
"maybe it's a fw \"feature\"? never seen that before - interesting."
"the mission runner is tasked with the objective, if there exists an item that has to be acquired then it is the mission runner who must get it, assigning ownership to them makes sense from this standpoint imo. if a 3rd party comes into the mission like a 'ninja' or a ransomer/griefer they can destroy the objective 'drop' target and swipe it w/o any penalty if ownership isn't tied to the mission runner who accepted the mission. the mission runner is then left to attack the ninja and be concorded for their attempt to reclaim their objective or face having to pay a ransom to get back their objective.doing what you ask just makes this griefing/ransoming a riskless pursuit for the griefer/ransomer not that a pve ship has much chance to stand up to a pvp ship in the first place but there is no reason i see to make it even 'safer' for them.not supported."
"supported"
"oops"
"regardless of whether the requirement is \"stupid\" or not, it is still the requirement, and until that requirement changes, i can't support the idea.don't misunderstand me - i like the idea - i think it would certainly help add flavor to the game. you could even make it cost a few $$ to cover the time to review them (and thin out the bulk submission idiots).but unless ccp's process for doing so changes, it's unfeasible, so i can't support it. let me know if you get confirmation that ccp is willing to change their process, and i'll change my vote in a heartbeat. (hint hint csm?)"
"it's the end game, just not how you wanted it. as things stand, super capitals are the most powerful weapons systems in eve. the only counter to a large number of super capital ships is another large group of super capital ships; super capitals beat everything. this is not a good state for the game to be in, as it drives every player towards flying these ships in the end. there is no path of gameplay beyond that of supercapitals, nor any alternative to how they affect the areas of gameplay they are active in. super capitals desperately need to be brought back into the balanced fold, before they ruin the game.following the discussion generated by the thread \"supercapitals are broken and i have no idea how to fix them,\" within that venue and in others, several fixes for the imbalances caused by super capital class ships in 0.0 warfare have been proposed. collected here are some of the various possibilities, justifications for their inclusion, and any potential problems. many of these fixes will only be effective when applied in tandem.general capital ship related changesadd subsystem targetting to super capital class vesselsthis change would be the most effective means of balancing super capital class vessels. subsystems would be seperately targettable components of super capital class weapons with independent hit point bars as well as signature radiuses. by disabling any given subsystem through depletion of hit points, the associated system of the ship ceases to function. if the engines are targetted, the ship would be immobilized and unable to warp. if the jump drive is targetted, the ship would be unable to jump out of system. by hitting the drone bay, more drones would not be able to be launched. by repairing these different subsystems (possibly through the use of scripts on capital repair modules), lost capabilities can be restored to the damaged ship. this is by far the most complex change proposed, and would require implementation as an expansion feature. the ultimate intent of this change is to make supercarriers vulnerable to crippling by cruiser sized and smaller vessels, thus restoring the validity of using smaller ship support fleets in large scale, capital driven combat.jump driver timersas things stand, once a jump drive is activated, any capital class ship will begin a very rapid trip to their destination. this makes it very easy to perform hot drop style attacks with supercarriers and titans and makes it very difficult for either side of an engagement to exercise a response to the new developments on the field. not surprisingly, capitals are a very popular weapon for surprise attacks, but they are being utilized to the point of absurdity. it is not unheard of for a single tackled mining barge to be hot dropped by a fleet of carriers anxious for a kill. to change this, all capitals would require a \"charge up\" time before they actually tunnel their way into the next solar system. for a carrier or a super carrier, this would take from one to two minutes from the pressing of \"jump\" to arrival. for titans and jump freighters, these timers should probably be in the range of two minutes or more.as an interesting and optional corollary to this suggestion, if a super capital were to be tackled during this deployment time, damage could be incurred for the energy discharge of the aborted jump. the closer the targetted ship was to jumping, the more damage it takes. this would undermine unsupported super capital operations, but could be compensated for by using more super capitals in conjunction unless implemented alongside other changes."
"supercarrier related changesincrease the signature radius of fighter bombers by 35 to 70 metersthe intent of this change is to make fighter bombers a more viable target for a support fleet. by increasing their signature radius, the time to target acquisition decreases, turret tracking improves, and missiles strike for greater damage. it is possible that this would simply increase the proliferation of drakes and armor hac gangs in 0.0 fleets if this change is not implemented in conjunction with others.decrease fighter bomber speedthis change serves similar function to the increase in signature radius in allowing turrets and missiles to strike these drones more effectively. more importantly, this change increases the time required for a new target to be attacked by a wing of fighter bombers, reducing their effectiveness in fleet combat.decrease fighter bomber damage outputby reducing the overall effectiveness of fighter bombers as a weapons system, they become less of a swiss army knife tool against capital targets. however, this change's affects could be reverted simly by deploying a greater number of supercapitals to the field. as a result, this is a lower priority change to implement, and should only be done in conjunction with others.make fighter bombers ineffective against sovereignty structuressovereignty warfare is a grind. to lessen that grind, firepower and fleet sizes have been growing larger and larger, while hit point bars continue to grow in tandem to prevent the struggle from ending too soon. this is an unsustainable game design technique, and a new strategy is needed. to this end, fighter bombers should not be an effective weapons platform against sovereignty structures. as things stand, supercarriers are too much of a swiss army knife. removing the anti structure effectiveness of fighter bombers will discourage the deployment of these ships en masse when a more powerful anti-structure weapon is available to the fleet. to prevent migration to titans, this change would need to be implemented in conjunction with a reduction in titan turret damage output, discussed later.titan related changesreduce titan turret damage output to sieged dreadnought levelsat present, titans provide superior firepower as well as superior disengagement options when compared to dreadnought class ships. in conjunction with fighter bombers, this has rendered the dreadnought all but irrelevent in serious sovereignty warfare, and risks marginalizing the class completely in the future as super capital volumes continue to increase. to help prevent this, the damage output of titans usign their turrets should not exceed 4,000 dps. the intent is to revalidate the existance of the dreadnought as a weapons platform in sovereignty warfare.reduce titan turret trackingat present, the tracking abilities of titans are sufficient to be viable against mobile support fleets, including armor hac gangs at their usual enagement ranges. by reducing the tracking of these turrets, smaller ships that are smart enough to keep their mobility up will not be able to be blasted right off the field by an alpha strike from a titan's turrets, with the intent of forcing fleets fielding titans to utilize them in conjunction with a support fleet oriented more towards small scale ship to ship combat. this goal would be much more readily attained when implemented along side subsystem targetting."
"the targeting idea is not something i like. you basically want to completely render the ship useless, too op imho.i do agree with some sort of delay on jumping, but this should be across all capital ships.the new changes to fighter bombers, already lowers the damage output to sub capital class ships. i don't agree to your change.fighterbombers already die quite quickly if a gang is organised and can focus fire, again i don't agree to your change.let's face it, a simple jump delay would be the best bet."
"add a jump portal timer to all ship classessimilar to the aforementioned jump drive timer, the jump portal timer would create a buffer between initiating titan portal travel and arrival on the field. for small ships such as frigates, this timer would have no effect on their deployment. cruisers could arrive 5 to 10 seconds later, and battlecruisers and battleships follow suit in 10 to 15 seconds. carriers, super carriers, other titans, freighters, jump freighters, and other future capital class ships would require a minute or more to utilize the jump portal, identical to their jump drive time requirements.add tracking to the titan doomsday deviceas things stand, the titan doomsday can hit any target it can lock onto. as a result, it often is used on frivolous targets and can allow the ship to be deployed without proper support. with tracking as a factor, the doomsday will not be able to be used against any given target, such as an interdictor, effectively while retaining the weapon's intended use against carriers and other capital ships.non-capital ship changesreduce or remove the effectiveness of massed bombs against small targetssupport fleets, especially on heavily loaded nodes, tend to suffer tremendously against a well orchestrated bombing run. these bombs are effective against all ship classes en mass. to make support fleets viable, massed bombs need to be all but useless against targets smaller than destroyers and only modestly effective against cruisers. an explosion velocity penalty modifier would probably provide sufficient change, but i do not know what numbers or other modifications might be necessary to make these weapons work properly. an insufficiently orchestrated change may allow for pilots to simply overcompensate for reduced effectiveness with increased numbers, so this change should be made with consideration of this in mind."
"moved to assembly hall by request"
"and to make sure you dont get the wrong idea, this is not one of those 'increase the number of systems' proposals.eve travel should (imo) take longer. why? well minigin explained that nice, and as aditional bonus not in green here:now here comes a bit more extended proposal.conventional travelthis is not really a problem. there are only two things i would change, decrease bs warp speed to 2 au/s to make them significantly slower than cruisers. also as requested quite often, make the acceleration curve depend on the top warp speed. right now the distance and the time you spend accelerating/deaccelerating during the warp is always equal. it wouldnt be really strange if your acceleration is two times larger if your max warp speed is two times larger. the end result is then if your warp speed is two times larger you just end up at your destination two times faster (ignoring alligning). might mean that some ships with very high warp speeds need to be toned down a bit.slightly related to conventional travel, make extra empire connections with deep 0.0 regions. the goal here is to make the ability to blob everything you see harder, not to make logistics a giant pita. also just more gate connections arround choke points, to compensate for higher importance of gate travel.jump clonesyou can go from one side of the universe to the other side with the press of a button every 24 hours, that is just too often, if your alliance decided to fight at the other side of the universe you shouldnt just jc back to defend your own space and still be able to 24 hours later join the fighting at other side again.yet at the same time you dont want to stop people pvp'ing because they dont want to use their expensive implants. solution: make the jc timer distance dependant. random numbers: make short range jumps give you a jc timer of 8 hours, in station for example (significantly less than 24 at least). however if you decide to jc from bottom of the map to top of the map you get a timer of several days. medical clonesi dont see them as much of an issue, but then i am too greedy to selfdestruct my pod. possible solution to remove ability to set medical clone to another station than your current station? not sure though, feedback welcome."
"jump drives and titan bridgesone of the main issues, these allow for so much faster travel than conventional travel that it just doesnt make sense they were ever introduced in their current form. cruisers travel slower than frigates, battleships slower than cruisers -> ooh why not introduce giant (super) caps that travels much faster than battleships. some random ideas: first decrease their jump range, or as alternative increase distances. and then make constellation distances significantly larger, while distances between regions becomes enormous ammount larger, range between systems within a constelation can stay the same. this way you prefer not to move them multiple regions without a good reason. making jump fuel more expensive (or more required) is imo a bad idea as you mainly hurt the scrub with his carrier and not the supercapital fleets. aditionally, give capitals possibly a warm up for their jump drive (honestly kinda unrelated to this proposal, is an anti hotdrop thingie) and certainly a much longer cool down period (10 minutes?). so you can jump dreads to destination, siege, kill, jump back. but you cannot jump to midpoint, dock, undock, jump, dock, undock, jump, be 4 regions further in a couple of minutes. important note: jfs should be largely unaffected, so short cool down period and improved jump range if distances are increased. while i would enjoy that logistics becomes a challenge and not right mouse button jump, i am afraid if you make it too much a challenge you just get terribly boring corp ops for escorting freighters combined with waste lands of stuff that is too far for logistics to bother. however more locally produces goods would be nice instead of importing everything from jita.jump bridgesthese of course also need to be mentioned. again we got the issue that these are also important for the general logistics needs of random scrub in random alliance, i dont want to make their live in 0.0 so tedious they go back to high sec. they will also be hit by the range increase between systems. you can also decrease their fuel capacity so it becomes more of a logistics issue for large fleets to have enough fuel. major problem, you can just keep the fuel in the nearby pos in a can/hangar. stuff like increasing fuel consumption if multiple activations in certain time frame is possible, but becomes too complicated imo. and just limitting number of activations (like 10/minute) is an option, but kinda restrictive. what definately should happen imo is an increase in resistances of jbs while severely decreasing their ehp. so they become much easier to incap while also easy to rep up afterwards. something else that has been proposed before is just removing them completely from pos's, especially possible since dominion with a special upgrade required for bridges. for my part you just even show them on the overview just like a gate. however if you do that combined with ehp decrease i would make them incap when shields are down, combined with fairly high shield recharge. so they start functioning automatically again after a while. only alliance members is too restrictive imo, and when busy they should make jump bridges, but also pos shield access standing related to get mostly rid of the pos pw crap."
"well thought out. ill give you the thumbs up, but i disagree and think that alliance only use of things like jbs and titans is not too restrictive. it is only because we have gotten so used to cheating the system with out of ally alts and blues that it seems harsh if we take it away.but realistically... why should someone with standings be able to use an jb not owned by their alliance? where is the logic behind that. if they want to use the same jbs they should be in the same alliance. the benefits should be directly related to what your alliance holds, not what your friends alliances hold.you should have the choice, get the benefits of being in said alliance, or not. you decide. this having everything is getting old and i think its about time someone started making a fuss."
"although afk cloaker is reasonable, nerf it is still the only way to populate null space."
"i can get behind adjustments of these things."
"one point i would add is limiting the instant intel, if you would need to check systems more carefully to find hostiles/victims you cant just rush through 50 systems in one night as you might miss all kills."
"make the warp travel more capacitor consuming. agree with warp speed adjustment for ships."
"i agree with minigins post more than the op. i think jump bridges both on pos's and titans should be limited to the alliance those things belong to. i also disagree with the jump clone aspect. not many people utilize them in an effective way of crossing across space to fight. it very rarely happens that way, but furthermore with all the different types of implants in the game its nice to be able to be in a clone that matches the situation, whether its slaves or snakes. personally i would like to see a reduction in the timer if anything."
"euhm that is included in the proposal, if you just use it for changing implants the timer can be much shorter.my problem with limitting stuff to alliance only is that it is an artificial limit that limits the sandbox and that it pretty much forces smaller entities to merge with larger ones."
"consequences do not limit \"the sandbox\" it makes your decisions actually worth making."
"maybe if you have lots of free time to play eve these idea's might make sense.but if you only have a few hours each night then these proposals are ridiculous.travel allready takes up to much of my game time for my liking."
"i agree to the change in warp speed increasing and decreasing change. kinda weird to me, the only time the max warp speed actually affects the warp time right now is when doing a very long warp but those are very rare for me. also i would suggest having multiple types of jc's with the types depending on skills and standings the basic version would require only low skills and the same 8.0 standings but the jump timer for them would be greater and as you increase standings and skills you get access to the better jump clones which have better clone jump reset timers.i also think the number of highsec systems should be increased. high sec is getting to crowded. about a year back the systems i frequent adveraged at about 15 players, but not they adverage about at 60 players."
"1. having reduced travel speed would make it much harder to hold larger chunks of space. i am quite sure the number of people who would do 6hours trips to get from deklein to lets say geminate, just to help defending there and then going back for 6hours.people might do that once or twice and then start ignoring such ops.2. that said ... it might shrink/break up the larger blocks over time and you get more regional conflicts and especially room for others to take.3. and suddenly you might see more regional conflicts with just 300-400 in local at most and not 1200-1300. and you might see more red/neutral people close by so you dont have to travel 20-30jumps through blue space to find any."
"yep... exactly... eve just needs to be more boring than it is now."
"that is only when you feel the need to travel 5 regions every day up and down to fight someone. the entire idea is that that is too boring, so you dont gather an entire coalition spanning 10 regions to fight a single alliance. for general travel in a region not much would change. biggest change would most likely be jump bridges, but the vast majority in eve manage to do their travelling needs without them, i think you will handle it if they are a bit worse. also the only ships actually becoming slower for normal travel (ie gates) would be bs. all other ships would either stay the same or become faster. every ship with a warp speed above 3 au/s would actually travel faster in this proposal."
"supported, sounds like a great idea. i think it would add a bit more realism to the game or at least make it a bit more like what i think space combat should be like."
"this. also supporting."
"wow what an epic counter point, lots of detail and thought was put into this. i'm sure of it!"
"real men fit pg implant and use 3 damage mods and dcu. edit: and can you please show me were i said dont use 3 dmage mods? your fit does suck balls.another edit: i see. i ment to say take off the pdu but just take the pdu ok i'll edit it right now since you were to retarted to understand."
"[drake, new setup 2]damage control iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivefaint epsilon warp scrambler ix5 prototype i engine enervatorheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missile[empty high slot]medium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender ihobgoblin ii x5edit: needs pg implant and forgot to add a small nuet."
"from my experience in using the drake i have found these to be false. 1) even tho a drake can hit a target with its missiles speedy targets and smaller targets don't get enough damage hit on them by the missiles to do enough damage. to fix that you would need a web and a target painter, wooh there went some passive tank. 2) another weakness is that drakes are very specified ships. most ships allow you to do a varity of things like gas harvesting, mining guards, or even light logistics. drakes cant do that becuase they have no turret slots, and their cap is almost none existent. you have to use missiles and a good tank. 3) another thing, the dps upgrades for a drake require medium, low and rig slots. for medium you will be using a web, target painter. for low you will be using bcus, and the rigs various missile rigs. now your down 2 medium, a few low, and your rig slots so now your tank is weaker than other bs's. also in pvp it is almost a requirement to use a mwd so there go another medium slot. when flying a drake. a player must first chose if they want weak tank but high dps, low dps, and high tank, or somewhere in the middle. from the description you gave you mixed your experience with a tanking drake and a dps drake. i say the drake is perfectly balanced the way it is. even with the current power grid and cpu if i fit a full tank i cant fit all the missile launchers, causing the damage to fall. yes i know in can fix the missle launcher situation but i dont feel like training 30 days just to do it."
"oh my god rick. you are my hero. can i join your corp cause you know how to fit a ham drake. i don't think anyone knows how to fit a ham drake properly and you just have ambient awesomeness. i'm in total and utter awe of you. can i have your babies?point being, someone said you cant have good dps+tank+med neut+tackle on a drake. all i did was throw a fit together in a flash to prove that you can.edit: top tip... if you are only gonna fit a small neut use a small nos instead, that way when you are being neuted you can keep your tackle on. small neuts are pretty weak."
"1) op, please, do tell which caldari ship would be viable for solo pvp if you take a drake out of the picture?2) you have never flown a drake in your pvp career, so this post is saying \"nerf ships that i don't use so i can kill them more easily\".3) hurricane or cyclone can chew a drake easily in 1vs1 fight. you would certainly like the drake nerf since you are mainly a minmatar pilot.4) armor hacs can obliterate drake fleets already.5) for a decent drake fit you already need kmb-25 implant even with maxed out skills. the alternative to that fit is another one that requires powergrid implant."
"definately supported.look at my name...."
"next time don't put your cat on the keyboard when you get to that part of the process."
"while at it, make it also show whether the character has been traded or not."
"i think this should be a seperate proposal tbh, and i would support it in a heartbeat. maybe a trade history tab on the character that lists all the dates that character has changed accounts (you don't even need to show me the from or to - i really don't care. just give me a list of dates.)"
"you make it then. :xi don't really know how the character trade works along with how people get their intel, looking for when joining a specific corp (which is the reason this popped into my head).i only know that scammers could use it to 'repair' their reputation if they have money too much. :/"
"name change documentation is so hard to fill out...surely they've expedited the process since the dmv came along?supported."
"i agree. i would be happy if i could just chose a pattern and a colors for the pattern. some costumablility is needed in this subject. although the faction/pirate paints should be reserved for only faction ships to deterr an increase in scams"
"supported. id like to personalize my ships, and a few options that add virtually zero lag would be fine.but i recommend that the option for a \"hot pink\" thorax not be included, even if it is named \"fun when vibrating\"."
"yes. supported."
"why not."
"ive been thinking about this for a while and everyone i talk to agrees. the null sec need a form of defense besides players. also having a defence upgrade for your null sec systems would control how much protection you can getidea one: have a deployable gun that can be deployed on stations, belts, or gates that it like the t2 version of the pos guns. the number of guns would be restricted on your defense upgrade but each cosmic item would have its max number of turrets it can have on it. like a station can have 8 max, a gate can have 6 max, and a belt can only have 1 or 2. but the total number possible in a system would be pretty low and would increase with defense upgrades. these guns would have a slow locking speed and a reaction speed (how fact they react to a ship entering their system)the reaction speed would let ships cloak when they enter a system. idea two: have a hire-able npc group that will assist your solar system. this npc group could be either pirates that the alliance or corporation have high standings in, or a set of automated ships that the alliance or corporation builds (they work kinda like fighters and fighter bombers). the defense fleet's reaction time would again be slow and the number and size of the ships in the response fleet would be totally dependent on the defense upgrade of the system. and only be able to respond to one instance at a time. the defenses proposed above can be set to attack based on corporation or alliance standings. also the defense level will be hard to get and raise so only the very serious null groups would get a large defense while other systems would have very little defense."
"idea one: stationary guns are so laughably easy to disable, that they'd never see any use.idea two: mercenaries."
"pos's have guns. a good alliance can build a defense fleet in minutes."
"definitely don't agree with this one. would be another hit to solo/small warfare, encourage larger gangs (again) increase lag, and make an already hard to take system even harder. if anything these systems need to be easier to take, because apart from the -a- land grab, 0.0 space changes hands very very rarely."
"if you can defend your space then you don't deserve to have it.not supported."
"i mean the idea to be easily laughable. the defense fleet is ment for a small group harassment or noob killer. and a good alliance... lol... thats just what they say to encourage you. they actually hide in there station until the 1 red goes away. (yes its a pvp alliance, seem kinda wimpy to me). i really should have called it a defense fleet, more like a weak half hearted police fleet"
"idea one:it will not make any difference in sov warfare because guns would be taken down the first, but it will discourage attack gangs (not fleets) to go to a station for a casual fight. this would represent the further nerf of small scale pvp and boost blob warfare which is always bad.idea two:please, don't mix pvp and pve.not supported."
"ok i have work hard on this i'dear to get it right the first time and hears what i belive ccp should realy conisder for 2011 t2 lottory m2.each player pays a fee of 1 million isk to enter but when the wining tickits is anouced the wining player wins a t2 bpo. so why use isk? wehll for the guys that know about plex aid when ccp converts plexs to real mony afaik thats what happen and then give the opprate good corse. the isk goes to ccp and they use it to buy plexs in game. for good corses much like noraml lottorys but 100% of convered isk is for that use only and a player wins a nice t2 bpo. later t3 or t4. rules any player can enter playing one million isk. prize dwar every stadat night utc on eve tv or along side bbc1 bb1 us ect, provided ccp can sine a deal with them other wise ccp's eve tv.and only ccp bos's/gms can do the lottry dwar so this system one hopes would not be abaused. to end plays get somthing realy use full and we help other pepople less fouranut then us. this could be done on a 1 week base's as a trai. for about to momths to see if its worth doning or not.it a role over no one wins whell if thats the case the bpo will be put in to next weeks dwar and a player will have a change of wining 2 t2boos.thanks for you time."
"this forum is english-only."
"considering the content of his post, he might be native english speaker... but a very drunk one."
"that is as true today as it was before, excluding various types of fotms.i wouldn't phrase it like that. fleet compositions and tactics tend to converge on a few types that have been found to work well. but this evolves over time, driven by game changes and the necessity to find counters to common fleet types and tactics.another factor is that most alliances have standardized fits (often coupling ship replacement programs with the requirement to use those official fits), which of course makes fleets less heterogeneous. fcs like you also play a role by how strictly you enforce the ship types that were called for, regardless how useful a handful of other types would be. well, frigate sized ships have too little buffer the be used together with the common logistics based fleets. also, it seems today almost everybody has enough isk to fly bss and t2 ships.hm, apart from those main fleet components i always see cloakies for scouting/warpins, tacklers, ecm boats for breaking up logistic chains, command ships for bonuses and still quite a bit of anti-support.something that i have missed in fact are (non-super) capitals involved in fleet fights, which can be attributed mostly to the new doomsday... once everybody does that people will rediscover sniper fleets...firing up eft and checking a few popular cruisers the factor seems to sit roughly at 2x. also, the fitting requirements are such that the sacrifices you make to fit a 1600 plate are well balanced imo.two very different ship types have more or less similar range... so?i agree the drake is overpowered or rather, too versatile, but you can't say that aloud here.agreed. but it's hard to come up with a proposal that wouldn't require major rebalancing.destroyers suck, and buffing&balancing them is a much easier task than frigates. has been discussed to death in ah multiple times.i don't see a problem. their offensive power was nerfed already. what else do you want to take away?you lost me there.well, then why don't you write an actual proposal that we can discuss?"
"yup"
"you could have it where you enter a time until you expect to be back then when somone in a chat (non local) says like \"/checkstatus worvand\" it would say, sorry he is afk and is expecting to return to his senses in 32 minutes (for the roleplaying puroses). the message would only be displayed to the person who wrote the check status command."
"supported, think its a good idea."
"i agree but also limit the number of billboards a corporation can use and make the names of the cans either shorter or generic to anyone outside of their alliance to quit any further container advertisers."
"not supported. gallente are probably the best pvp race. stupid idea."
"even though blasters are somewhat limited and capacitor can (not always but can) be an issue, i'm against this. just because you do not use a rep bonus does not mean no-one else does.the rep bonus means gallente ships are probably the best solo pvp non-nano ships in eve. if you train your capacitor skills up enough cap really is not much of an issue.it would be nice to not have such a large cap penalty for mwd, but i feel losing one of the other bonuses is too big a price."
"i agree with das goon. my station warehouses are not cutting it."
"containers are there. let them be moved. no need for adding f-ing hangar divisions. no need for adding manufacturing slots."
"i support having repackaged station cans smaller and ship carry able.realistic view point: its like having a giant box that takes up a lot of space when fully assembled but when repackaged its takes up alot less space due to there being less empty space in it. kinda like shipping a shelf or buying moving boxes, they are packaged to save room and fit in someones car.eve use point: being able to repackage a station can and carry it arround with you wont be that much use in high sec. but in low and null it would help out alot."
"some, in fact all of the alternate formations he mentions cannot be created by standard mechanics (or at least not in a fashion that's applicable in a real combat situation)lines, v formation, even a chosen diameter sphere formation would all *add* to fleet combat - you could not do these by any workable mechanic and the benefits are negligible compared to the cost in time and effort.if they were added as an option, they would allow fleets to do new, interesting things - they'd create variability in the manner in which 2 fleets collide. at the moment, there are two options:blob - where the fleet is fleetwarped to a distance and lands as a cluster.optimal line - where each pilot warps to an ideal in a direct line between the source location and the target location.whilst i don't think this is jump up and do it *now* stuff, it's a very cool idea and i think it would add to fleet combat mechanics.imagine if you could choose from the option sets given a fleet in homeworld, for example, would that not be visually stunning, allow for new styles of combat, and fit in wonderfully with the concept of eve?edit:my suggested modifications to the idea:drop the tackle one - that actually reduces tactical options by suggesting an 'obvious' default. obvious in quotes because it actually might not apply much of the time.make the distances an option for the fc and allow them to choose from a better set than current, at the very least every 10km from 0m to 100km"
"anyone who thinks bombing is hard either hasn't done it or hasn't ever seen it properly done. this in no way removes armor hacs, and in no way dumbs down fleets. you're only looking at one side of this. both sides benefit and can create new and interesting tactics. this doesn't dumb down the game, it adds more elements of diversity and difficulty to it. the things that make good fc's good and bad fc's bad aren't in any way related to warp ins. at least not in any significant manner in eve. honestly off the top of my head, i can think of a counter maneuver to every single type of warp in up there. and not only can i counter it, i can totally exploit a fleet who chooses to use any of those options. if you're telling me that the fc's you've flown under for years are going to improve or diminish simply by this change, then you've definitely flown under the wrong people."
"this."
"yes i agree with adding a warp in design like have it so that the battleships warp in in the middle and the smaller ships further out. one thing that would help is adding a customizing tool. like use the way you control through scanning but you just add warp in zones or spots. the warp in setting would be set by the highest ranking fleet member and when enabled the fleet warps as one group which means that the frigates would get up to warp speed but wait for the other ships to get up to warp speed then go to warp as a group. in countless space related items the ships go to warp together and come out in a certain formation. also as a restriction on customizing the fleet warp in design if you have 3 bs slots and like 10 frigate slots then that design can only be used in a fleet that has up to but not over 3 bs's. no bc,cruser (no slots for them and in there) and up to but not over 10 frigates."
"while you do have a point, if ducks can do it, why can't we."
"no to reusing... too confusing for historical purposes and would cause a conflict with griefwatch and such.yes to adding another character or two."
"sounds almost like my schools gay lesbian transgender groups ticker. there is a b in that one though.i dont mind recycling, if it is a totally dead corp. i dont want to lose my alt corp because i didn't check jita for a few months."
"when i login my alts there are hundreds of emails.i am using multiple accounts and there are tons of emails, but sometimes i am missin just the one which was send to this toon, but i missed it, because of the flood of emails.i would like to get rid of all duplicates and i would like to configure that all emails are forwarded to my main character/account, so i can read them once and done."
"how about since marauders are supposed to be able to carry a lot of cap boosters and ammo, and since they're 'marauding' ships and expensive as hell, they're not completely destroyed by one neut ship.how about a role bonus that makes them immune to energy neutralizers/vampires (not void bombs though) because their sensor strength is so damn low?when the noctis comes out i think we're gonna be seeing much less marauders, and the tractor role bonus could be changed into this neut immunity.another half baked idea by sepheir sepheron!"
"it's realy not a bad ideal though. much better bounse for pvp if i say so myself. it could even be the number 1 level 5 mission ship with that bounse hehe. but i do belive that all or most of the level 5's or in low sec or below now too alse making it a good bounse for both pvp and pvm. bring us one more step closer to merging pvp and pvm."
"sounds like someone just lost there shiny marauder to a mission invader"
"so give a pve ship a massive boost in a pvp scenario?not supported."
"don't have adv weapon upgrades 5, don't have any interest in the ship the way it is now. i don't do high sec warfare and that's why i want this ship to change, so i can actually \"maraud\" with a marauder. not training for it till something changes or i decide to get a siege module.by calling a ship a pve ship, you have utterly failed at eve online.when you say that this ship can only do one thing, you really are exactly the kind of narrow minded buffoons that i hate.supporting my own thread, no more trolls please"
"given all marauders have an active tanking bonus cap should be vulnerable. otherwise you would need to hold and damage it until it went through all the cap boosters. and that is assuming the marauder wouldnt fit the utility highs with nos, which would increase that time even more. combined with the dmg potential it might have killed your whole gang before it ran out of cap boosters.all that said ... not supported."
"if you are looking to pvp in it, then the neut bonus wont save you. once someone chucks out ecm drones your going to get jammed alot of the time, giving whoever is shooting you plenty of time to whittle down your only just better than the tech 1 bs buffer"
"thread locked. please be constructive."
"i  pizza (the not burnt kind)"
"moved from assembly hall."
"lol, i love this idea."
"great idea, i support this!"
"i for one, still /mourn the loss of the /pizza command in eq2. such pure... genius... we should riot in the streets until the give us this!/grabs feather boa and a pitchfork"
"i approve!"
"i would like you to bring up a proposal i made in ah of posting regulations and making them similar to caod regulations. ie posting with your main or a non alt character, to stop the endless bs threads made by people like emo tj and chromo effect.edit linkage"
"i just found your clever wordplay amusing. if you want to call that player out, you should just do it. i'm sure he won't mind."
"the problem, these are business decisions and no matter how loud and how many voices they hear they will probably view it as \"the vocal minority\". even in the face of a mass exit they would probably place the decline on something else other then their \"golden goose\". reading mynxee's report on the last meeting i think it's safe to assume csm is already in their face over the matter, t'amber's resignation just elevated it.as for lotr going f2p, it's way to early to start throwing a party over the numbers they just reported. this is an mmo, continuity is everything, going to wait to call that a success story. we also have champions moving to f2p (cryptic style, lol) so that will also be interesting to watch over time. if ccp wants to push out more plex purchases why don't they do something really different. they have a store with physical goods, why not allow me to buy something in it for plex's? instead of these \"virtual\" gimmicks allow someone to actually buy physical goods using virtual money or items such as a plex. do something different and unique that sets you apart from the rest of the industry."
"do not worry, the full seated csms are all over this and me leaving will have no bearing in the overall strength of the anti-moremicrotransaction movement, as there is not one csm who isn't against adding more of them to game.-t'amber"
"wonderful."
"to be more precise, the csm is unanimously against micro-transactions that have real in-game benefits (like plex for remaps). however, micro-transactions for vanity items, or services like character portraits, is an entirely different thing.i think that when the october meeting report comes out (rsn!) this will be made entirely clear."
"no i want backwards vectors. just to **** off the bittervets"
"bump"
"yes, i am right 'cause it's insurance for all or no one and i fixed it for u."
"noi dislike this idea enough that i actually logged into the forums (which i almost never do) to post against it. plex is bad enough, and especially don't allow people to buy $$-only items, doubly so if they're account-bound."
"a resounding no."
"i'm going to do something i rarely do here - which is be serious on the forums.ccp, if you do decide to go ahead with microtransactions - and they're anything but cosmetic - you'll successfully do what years upon years of drama, radical changes, and other companies couldn't do.you'll kill eve. flat out. many of us have put time into this game, into characters, corporations, and friends that have been with us through all of it.. but we won't support a system which supports the out-of-game wealth of players to better their experience.some of us work for a living, and we work hard - especially in this day and economic situation. yet, we're still willing to pay you for the pleasure of eve. most of us on multiple accounts.please don't ruin that.it's a no vote from me as well, chaps."
"nothis has been the only mmo i've played since the day i \"discovered\" it.that ccp has taken this next step without regard to it's playerbase is no surprise to me, i had a feeling that ccp had sold it's soul to the dark side when it teamed up with microsoft for dust. on a side note, i will more then likely stop playing my self and play more fps, and hey, i hear they are patching new vegas again"
"no! its a terrible idea and a huge step in the wrong direction!"
"no"
"no.i will not be renewing my account.you may not have my stuff."
"wtf are you thinking, sims in space microtransactions? no!"
"a thousand times no!"
"no"
"that will be a big fat no.ccp is already well ahead in the mmo lead and there is no reason why they should adopt practices from inferior companies/products."
"no"
"no"
"no - from the player base as well as from the developer point of view it makes no sense if ccp wants to introduce unique items it can do so (and already did in the past) by ingame events where player have to put some effort into it to get it."
"cosmetic only paying extra for a little bit of extra comfort is fine by me - but it should neither be required or \"strongly suggested\"."
"ccps monthly subs are already 20-40% more than other mmo's, this may be because of the introduction of \"shops\" or \"microtransactions\" in those games, but the idiots suggesting \"i would rather they increased my subs, than bring in extra stuff i can pay for\" can take a jump off a very high cliff.it's already difficult enough to play eve with 1 account, increasing subs is a stupid idea, please do not put this in ccps head!!!!now cutting subs by 50%, introducing the shop with attribute adjustments/learning implant purchase/\"cosmetics\" for plex/rl iskies...go right ahead. modules/ships which give clear advantages ingame no though."
"cosmetic only. as long as it gives no advantage ingame i don't care.it will probably make plexs more useful and thus increasing its price, but guess what ?it's a tradable good, and price increase/decrease is normal.i've no more sympathy for someone who won't be able to buy a plex for his 3rd account than i have for the miner who lost his hulk to griefers."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no, do not want, and will gank any found using them if they are added."
"no... uhm noooooooo."
"noneverdothisccp"
"no"
"nogtfo1st phase: emorage subscribers would quit, as a protest for microtransactions.2nd phase: rich in rl players would become to have direct or indirect advantage over the rest of playerbase.3rd phase: casual playerbase would drop in numbers, as a result of being constantly f*ed and ****d by those who has advantages.4th phase: rich rl players would stop playing eve because there is less and less others to **** and grief;5th phase eve diesif ccp indeed applies microtransactions, can i export myself to tranquility 2 without microtransactions?"
"no"
"no"
"no no no no no no no and i almost forgot to mention: no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"definitely no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no no no no no micro transactions"
"no, i hate microtransactions! they'd destroy part of the game... plexes are at least influenced by eve market."
"no!"
"no. no. no."
"no. moreover, we have plexes already, and plexes are an evolution of microtransactions. ccp would not \"behave like a dinosaur\" if they don't introduce microtransactions, ccp is already ahead of microtransactions."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"oh man, you guys have no clue. i was just at ccp's head office, and they have this super dramiel. i think its called a machariet (yes with a t). anyway, it has the same play style as the dramiel, but with double the shields, structure, and damage bonus. and you can only get it by directly converting plex into it. it is so uber.edit: do not get me started on the vindicator mk ii. carrier-level level tank with no mods, double the web range, and a bigger damage bonus. omfg it has effectively 16 guns and trades for 3 plex.(no.)"
"no"
"no."
"not only no, but hell noooo"
"cosmeticthere is not reason to have no option at all, there is almost no detriment to cosmetic changes for plex ( plex prices will go up but who cares)those saying no are butthurt or scared that this will turn into pay2winonline.even if you can pay to get a super dramiel, you would pay with a plex, which is about 360mil, which is easily acquired through current game mechanics"
"no.... no.... no... stuffing the voting...."
"no!"
"supported"
"signedplease return the old effect, or provide an improved (more awesome) effect.current effect is so meh for capital and supercapital jumps."
"they aren't going to keep it a family gma eso there is not going to be nudity that does not make the slightest bit of sence unless you mean't thay are. and i was jk anyways i do not give a **** if they add nudity or not its really just a stupid idea."
"if no boost ever comes, is it not reasonable to simply cut their cost in half? i'm looking at $17m hyena hulls (the eaf i wanted to fly) and, considering the total number of active eafs in game, that is beyond ridiculous. i'd fly an underpowered, role-confused ship if it were half the price. i mean i'm just saying either/or."
"the problem with the hyena is that it is simply does not do anything well. it's bonuses cry out for a mwd. if you look at the \"recommended skills\" you can see that artillery and armor tanking are recommended for it! the hyena can go as slow at 2550m/s if you slap a 400mm plate on it or as fast as 3300m/s if you shield tank it. the latter has a massive 286m signature radius w/ mwd on! 4800 ehp is what you can get w/ the 400mm plate. 3k ehp is pretty standard. against cruisers and larger ships - absolutely no problem tracking it. none. anyone who has remotely trained gunnery will kill you while laughing.against frigates? you have no firepower to speak of. 88 dps is the most i could configure for. at the speed frigates move - by the time you slap webs on an incoming adversary they've closed the last 10km to put a scramble on you - and you're mwd fitted. caw! caw! bang! ****! i'm dead! i have eas trained to lvl 5. i spent alot of time on sissi trying to work out fits that would work. trust me. the ship is worthless and i don't care how cheap it is - 5 seconds on the battlefield is not enough."
"it would be nice to see more of these flying around.+1"
"1.0"
"it always baffles me that people haven't figured out how to fit the keres properly. its already a very useful little ship. its a mini arazu that can tackle any non sensor boostered sub capital (not including recons) with immunity to being locked back. hint: small cap injectorhowever in general i support this proposal."
"i'd buy that for a dollar"
"indeed, the omen has some serious fitting problems, even the omen navy issue has problems with fitting. a boost in power-grid and cpu is definitely need for the omen and the omen navy issue, the zealot is fine. in-fact the omen navy issue should have around a similar fitting as the zealot."
"supported, the omen is a ship i have never even thought about flying pvp in because of its awful fitting abilities"
"fix all non-tier3 cruisers please.caracal? nice range... too bad everyone will just warp out before your missiles hit.omen? could survive (barely) in the nano age, now it's just ughhh.stabber? no real hp, frigate dps, not fast enough anymore. not to mention people will just shut off your your mwd and then no real hp turns into a wreck.thorax used to be good at what it does (get to 0 range, dps, hope other guy dies before you do). i haven't seen any in a very long time though, so i dunno if it still works."
"the omen is not a dmg bonused laser boat, it's a dps bonused laser boat. check the stats - it gets a rate of fire bonus. no range bonus (which would allow you to use shorter range crystals), no damage bonus, no tracking bonus. it also gets more drones than the zealot or omen. both these features point to it being a great pve boat, obviously not designed for pvp.you'll have the same trouble trying to fit t2 short range weaponry on any t1 hull while still squeezing in damage mods, tank and tackle. something has to give - you can't have one hull capable of fielding awesome dps and being tackle and tank.omen navy issue, zealot or harbinger will let you fit all that junk onto one hull."
"you'll have the same trouble trying to fit t2 short range weaponry on any t1 hull while still squeezing in damage mods, tank and tackle. something has to give - you can't have one hull capable of fielding awesome dps and being tackle and tank.omen navy issue, zealot or harbinger will let you fit all that junk onto one hull.like the rupture, moa, caracal, stabber, vexor, thorax. but not really cause they can all fit tackle, tank, t2 short range guns."
"there are a lot of t1 cruisers from other races that don't absolutely suck just because of horribly gimped fittings. it is not too much to ask for fmp/1600 or hpl/800 to fit on an omen. it would still be significantly worse than a rupture, for example... and i wouldn't hesitate to engage it in a vexor, arbitrator, or thorax.-liang"
"i <3 the omen."
"supporting this here thread is i."
"i support thisregards,gil"
"-1 more paying accountno, you cannot have my stuff."
"no to remap for plex!"
"supported"
"or, like in w-space, make it where you're only in local if you actually say something in local."
"up to the top."
"good idea."
"a nice one. this could be expanded so that you can, say, track movements while still taking part of an encounter. would be an invaluable military asset."
"would also be interesting if we could use at the same time universe and system map :)(so ability to open 2 or more windows with map"
"i don't know if this has been posted before but i was thinking it would be really great if one could set or change your skill queue on eve gate. that makes it way easier to not 'waste' skill time if you don't have am eve pc near by.the skill list is already there, it just need to be made interactive.what do you think? any ideas to that matter?"
"yes"
"supported"
"100% with you on that one.my eve pc crashed just last week and now i have to get a new one, if it wasn't that my friend is an eve player i would have not been able to update my skill queue. i would also suggest a live chat room integrated with eve online to speak with friends who are playing eve. this would be awesome cause sometimes i'm extremely bored at work."
"i suppose it's already on their to do list for eve gate, as it seems obvious, but well if they have forgotten..."
"from a rp standpoint it would be equivalent to getting a e-book for your guy."
"my computer was down for 2 weeks....supported"
"yes, please. the sov-grind is mind numbing and boring. it kills the soul! there is a place for siege warfare but grinding through a load of timers is just bad gameplay."
"not supported.there will be no sov mechanic you will be happy with if it remains this easy to stick a billion people in a system whenever you want.your problem isnt with sov its with jbs/standings."
"so we need to vote, that ccp is doing their job ?if i dont vote, what are they doing then ? working on other games ?yes, i want them start working and doing their job. fix that and all what is broken in this game, if you care about it."
"well grinding with massive fleets through a wall of hp isn't that funny...what about a module on a ship, that can take over sov?lets say, every reinforce cycle, the firewalls of the ihubs and outpost are down for 30 minutes or so (rebooting), during that time, somebody has to go there and activate the hacking module for 15 minutes and upload a programm to start the next rf cycle/ to finaly conquer the computer systems of the ihub.to initiate the first rf cycle, they have to stay and hack there for 30 minutes and the owning alliance gets a warning, so no sov can be stolen when nobody watches and small gangs can provoke a response.main problem would be massive lag, so that not all hacking ships can be destroyed in the timeframe.another smaller problem could also be small ships that ran around and start hacking, so you get a lot of warnings but nothing is contested, but well space has to be denfended or you don't deserve it."
"sov seems fine to me now, they way its gained and lost. one thing i would like to see implemented though is a the creation of a coalition, just like you would do an alliance. instead of alliances messing around with standings and making chat rooms etc. also with complete managemnt tool where the coatiltion executor alliance/corp can have control. idk what else but yea"
"again i must ask, 'why?'. the winners have control and the losers go back to high sec. just because you are horrible at winning 0.0 does not mean you get to run to the judges and have the rules changed to suit your play style.you lost. time to move on ehh? why don't you sleep with a dev about it? oh wai..."
"1.0"
"i dont think anyone is suggesting that we make eve slower, just make it slower for enourmous numbers to move places far away."
"what a surprise, yet again you're unable to deal with a basic game mechanic, and ccp must save you. here's a suggestion... if there's a jump bridge network that's letting your enemies run rings around you? (funny that the people who are complaining are always those who can't get their own network set up or enough allies to make a large one work)why don't you try shooting it? i know, revolutionary concept, but your enemy's jb network can be, get this, incapacitated. i know, those pos modules are, strangely enough, able to be shot at. and they're not magic and invulnerable. who'd a thunk it? and, naturally, a large force of allied groups that wants to move a lot of people somewhere can't possibly use titans and cynos. or maybe they can, but ccp should probably save you from that, too. any other valid game mechanics giving you problems? i heard that ccp is even thinking about adding something to the game called \"jump clones\" so that an entire enemy force could simply jump clone over to where they want to be. yes, even across the entire map! we need to stop them before they do that as it will, obviously, totally ruin eve. keep up the good work, and post in a brighter green if you can. all the most compelling arguments either use bright colors or, if they're a good argument, all caps. if they're really a good argument, they can use all caps and bold, at the same time. perhaps you can raise your game to the level where you post in all caps, bolded, underlined, bright colors. then the only thing left for you to do would be to add italics, and your arguments would be unbeatable!"
"you created a monster!"
"i wasn't going to agree with you, and i really don't want to... but i see that text and i just can't help myself."
"assuming that lag is currently ccp biggest problem i would have thought that they already would have changed jump bridges. as stated earlier the simple solutions are:-jump bridges only allow alliance members to jump-make it so only (10-15) activation are allowed per minute this should reduce load on the server- give a negative effect for those ships jumping through over the activation allotment such as inability to lock, jump through bridges, or warp for 5-10 minuteslarge coalition gangs should be moved by titans not via jump bridgeshopefully changes in jump bridges will increase gate travel which will allow for servers to better cope with large gangs. save a jump bridge ride a gate,corps"
"is it a surprise to anyone the tickers of the people claiming its perfectly valid to be able to move 1000 guys accross half of eve in 10 mins?and if you have read the other thread, people have already suggested and i agree with titan bridges only being alliance use also.please explain to me what is so unreasonable about this proposal? why cant it be up to the alliance you reside in to arange its own transport?why should this exist?"
"no, seriously, everybody else who wants to deal with an enemy jb network (and is competent) can shoot them. but you need ccp to rescue you (because you are just so damn awesome, of course). and total unexpcted from a troll such as yourself, we've got some ad homnem fallacies amidst the whiny for ccp to save you. while, meanwhile, everybody else who wants an enemy jb network shut down will, ya know, form up a fleet rather than forum warrioring and begging ccp to save them from anybody who can hold space or (gasp!) cooperate with their neighbors."
"its a good thing that jbs are 1. not on heavily defended posses - no wait2. not enabeling massive and fast responce times to any attack on them - no wait3. when shot actually die - no wait4. not ridiculously easy to repair - no wait5. not cheep enough to have hundreds friggin everywhere so that killing a few of them isnt that much of a problem - no waitexplain to me, why you think it is unreasonable that the benefits you derive from holding space should be directly proportionate to the amount of space you actually hold and i might consider your argument not a mear \"please dont change this i really like exploiting it\""
"yet again your argument is about how powerless you say you are and how much you need ccp to save you. you can't incap mods, you can't reinforce towers, you can't kill your enemies when they try to rep things. you definitely can't destroy those jb towers. you certainly can not deny your enemy sov. and gosh darn you just cannot understand why an alliance or coalition that owns more space should be able to use more space and, of course, jump bridges are an exploit too."
"if you remove jump bridges, you'll have to redesign sov again as defending space is heavily dependent on being able to use jump bridges."
"/me grabs popcorn"
"i am asking you a very simple question which you have smokescreened.why should razor alliance be able to use morsus mihis jumpbridges?are you aware you cant use their cynogens?let me guess!this game is not easy enough for you yet... sitting in the largest group of blues in the game, being able to put two seperate 1k gangs into different regions at the drop of a hat. and you are the one telling people to adapt or die.if this game becomes reasonable and you cant abuse jumpbridges so badly i wonder how you will adapt?"
"basic lesson in logic: burden of proof.other than whining about how impotent you are to fight enemies who has pos's and deal who enemy pos's (so ccp has to save you) you haven't shown a reason why people shouldn't be able to use friendly jb's/titans. i don't have to show why the entire system of sovereignty/bridges/cybo hammers/beacons/titans doesn't need a radical overhaul.and yet more whining and trolling about how, in an mmo of all places (gasp!) people can work together and if more people oppose you than work with you, it's just not faaaaaair! (also \"ayieeeee, blob blobby mcblobbersob!!!\")"
"just for the record rawr is burning between 10 and 15 billions in lo exclusively on jbs every month (proly more cause we cant keep the track of everyone refueling them). also we are not maybe the best example cause good portion of north is using our jb network, but maintaining jb network is far from cheap.i must admit i wouldnt mind balancing them in one way or another, but minigin is funny when he is buthurt."
"but infact... we have... and you have not come up with a counter argument. you have just ranted about trolling / limegreen / caod.ill go through it again with you.1. it is too easy to move extremely large numbers through vast regions of space (this allows for stagnation of 0.0 space and largely boring conflicts)2. benefits derived from holding space / owning titans should be directly proportionate to what you actually have!3. if you want to be in a mega-alliance with jumpbridges over half of eve you should be in the same alliance and have to deal with the structural problems with forming a super-allianceps. at this stage you need to ask in a wide eyed manner \"but why cant i have it all?\"to which i shall reply! haha you want easymode why dont you adapt or die?!?!?! no sorry... thats your line.i will say \"there are consequences for your choices... eve should and used to mirror this. it was / is an excellent part of our game and should not be lost because a large group of players gets together and says... hey guys... if there are enough of us our choices wont matter.\"i put it all in caps and underlined/bolded important bits so you dont miss it this time."
"what way would you balance them? and does this mean they are imbalanced in your eyes?"
"man, mini, you really suck at logical augments. none of those support the burden of proof. your fist claim is mere subjective opinion. \"too fast\", according to which objective metric, exactly? your argument is circular: jb's are bad because you feel that the make travel \"too fast\" and them making travel \"too fast\" makes them bad. plus, of course, you insist that you are too impotent to counter them so ccp has to save you.your second point is short bus level dumb. the more space people hold, the more they can use and yet you're still whining about how instead it should be that the more space someone holds, the more they can use.your third point isn't even a cogent argument, just petulant whining. alliances shouldn't be able to cooperate and share bridges because you say so and waaah waaah and you are powerless and zomg please won't ccp save you and blah blah. plus added nonsense about how something essential is lost if ccp doesn't remedy your impotence and it's other people who want eve on easy mode (ya know, the folks who actually fight over and destroy pos's an remove sob), and not you who are impotent to fight and need mommy ccp to fix it. and the war in the drone regions has been quite interesting. it's a good thing that ccp wouldn't let them anchor any jb's or it would be really stagnant. we sure dodged a bullet there. just like how sov 4 was unbeatable... until someone beat it.and i keep talking about how you're trolling, caod style crap posting and using pretty colored text like a child because, well, you won't stop any of the three."
"so only 2-3 tech moons? i feel really sorry for you with all those highends and techmoons you got, you might run out of money soon."
"1. it is too fast, i think even vuk is about to agree there that traveling through such large areas of space so quickly with such large numbers makes little sense and makes this game far more easy for large entities. (note that it wouldnt stop being easier for these entities than smaller entites should jbs be drawn back) just not so much easier.2. your alliance doesnt hold all the north. your alliance holds slabs of tenal, yet you are able to jumpbridge all over the north via \"blue alliances\" jumpbridges. i would argue that this shouldnt be the case because you incur none of the costs / risks. eg. should someone want to wardec an alliance so to block your supply routes or whatever, using alts and whatever with blue standings has in the past hindered the effectiveness of such wars. by limiting jb use to alliances only, you are forced to make a tough choice (one i believe to be fair) you can gain the benefits of being in an alliance with jbs but also will incur the not so blissful side of things. the problem with people like you is you believe (and atm rightly so) that you can have everything and will never need to make a difficult choice. but why is this the case? eve is not a fluffy peaceful empire where there is only consentual pvp (or in this case... only pvp when you dictate it). there is absolutely nothing unreasonable with any of this.also i dont think you understand quite what \"burden of proof\" means. it is actually a legal term and the burden of proof doesnt reside with the person you decide, it is usualy decided by either legislation or something like a high court.as you are neither (but might believe yourself to be) and as i have given ample justification for this to be looked into. it really now comes down to why you should be able to use another alliances jumpbridge unlike their cynogens, and simply saying \"why not\" is a really stupid answer. the fact that in none of your replys thus far have you been able to avoid rambling in such a way as \"zomg please won't ccp save you and blah blah\" proves imo that you have no interest in actually arguing reasonably, but rather in dumping as many words into a thread with the intention of shouting down a legitimate idea that is contrary to what you believe would be in your best interests. let me predict how your next post will end (should you chose to make it)\"you are a child, you type in green, this isnt caod.\"grow up."
"christ you are a wordy bastard.there is nothing really wrong with the jb's. and as far as blues using them..why not. so one alliance leader says to another alliance leader; \"hey, your cool, want to use my bridge?\"and the other alliance headcheese says; \"sure you're cool too! and you can use my bridge too big guy\" and from there you have friendship. this friendship also ****es off everyone that can not make friends.the end.moral of the story: \"quit ****ing others off and you too, can use your buddies bridge\""
"wrong! look bittergreen dude. the jump bridge mechanic is working as intended. don't you understand that? you can't stop friends from being friends. if you don't like the nc (northern coalition) then that is fine, but you should not make attempts to get ccp to help you win. here is a crazy concept:if you don't like being curb stomped all over the place then maybe you should be less bitter and make some friends. then with those new friends you might have a chance.pro tip: friends don't let friends type green."
"this game isnt about winning and losing for me. its about having fun. i am not your typical coalition type that without a thought will block the two together... winning and fun that is."
"yes, the game is about fun. and nothing says fun like taking an hour to go gate to gate in order to go hunting, or spending two hours round trip travel in order to spend an hour and a half in combat.why, it'd be even more fun if every single ship had ita warp speed reduced to a pod's."
"a lot of the fun that pvp oriented players in nullsec space derive from the game comes from roaming around, trying to get fights out of tackling ratters. this fun gets diminished in a sad way by the fact that you encounter so many bots during your roams and you get confronted with the fact that people are making boat loads of isk in a way that is still considered cheating (right?).one prime example is red alliance, a russian language alliance. even when you roam their space during times that russians should be fast asleep, you will encounter 2 or 3 tengus in every system that all warp safe at exactly the same time the second you jump into local.this kind of cheating makes the game less fun and imbalanced and in some regions of space is so wide spread that it, in my opinion, warrants action by ccp. the players that actually play by the rules need your help ccp!"
"this is likely to be locked if you're calling names out the issue here.macro ratting and mining is still a big problem, it's not news to us, and i doubt anyone with any influence with ccp (besides the csm, who also know this is still an issue).clearly the solution is to turn dull activities like mining and ratting into more active ones, such as increasing your damage or mining amount based on amount of completed captchas per minute, etc."
"this is the cancer that is killing eve. the growing amount of rmt traders in high/low and 0.0 is crazy!what about having unholy rage more than just once (pr exercise).i find it hard to believe that this is not difficult to track - players who are logged in for 23/7 simply cannot be controlled by 1 individual - this alone proves that there is atleast account sharing taking place.+1kro"
"or u can move on with your subscription and actually get a fight from ppl that r also trying to get fights, unless u're even more risk-averse than those ratters. in that case, u could just propose to funnel every pve player to u to shoot fish in a barrel with and be immune to everyone else."
"honestly, some roams bring a few small ships and fight ratters (often a reasonably fair fight, ships go boom on both sides). many roams are larger. ahac gangs, drake gangs, nano gangs... they shoot ratters to provoke a response. the fun is when the defense fleet shows up and you get a fight. ratters are generally not very fun to kill (unless they are a ratting carrier or dread... those are fun).back to the op, the problem with killing macro ratters is you really don't get any response out of killing them (when you catch them) because there is no player screaming in alliance/corp \"neut/red gang in *** just lost my ratting raven\" so no one comes running and there is no fight and thus no fun.kill the macros."
"i am impressed at the massive amounts of proof in this thread for the accusations you've made, you should forward it to ccp so they can get on top of it."
"so that's why the gankers only go after the ratters instead of the defense fleet itself or its hq system, am i right? so when the defense fleet shows up, the gankers \"advance in another direction\" to a safe location to fight the good fight of who gets bored first. hahaha u're funny."
"i think this is a real problem. i don't have any basis for singling out red or anyone else, but it's pretty obvious that large-scale macro ratting occurs.people who suggest that we gank the ratters don't understand how the macros are programmed. as soon as you enter local, the macros safe up. i've gone on several hour, 3-4-5 region roams that get no action at all, because we're just blowing through crowds of macro-ratters."
"just make eve check the computer for running macro programs etc if one is detected eve closes itself and maybe sents a mesage to ccp for further investigation as far as i know thats the only way except some stupid captcha or radical ui changes"
"depends on the response. if you come with 30 hoping to pick a fight and 100 show up in a defense fleet (usually takes forever), you're already dealing with a bunch of people who want to turn around and head home, add to it a fight that they know they can't win and it shouldn't be a surprise they leave. a more common situation is when two fleets play gate games with each other. neither fleet catching the other in a situation they are willing to engage in. do this for long enough and someone has to go home, since the defense fleet is already home, it is the roam that has to leave the area.usually, in roams i've been on, we engage. suicidal or otherwise."
"in other words, that's why u came with 30 to gank one ratter? because u know u can win as long as u don't bring any less, right? 'cause we all know u didn't come with 30 to look for a fight 'cause that's not enough to attack a system. here's an idea--don't bring so many so u won't have to wait forever for a fight. it's still enough to gank the solo ratters and u'll get a lot more fights because the other side won't face the same \"problem\" u would if your 30 came across the 100-man fleet. u'll just have to face a little risk from the lone ratter who might destroy your precious killboard with one loss this time due to your lower total dps 'cause that's the only time u'll ever engage."
"...back on topic...macro ratting is most definitely a problem that needs to be addressed. i've even afk cloaked in a system where i found a neut macro ratter, but he just moved on.cheating sucks, kills the economy (excessive isk source), and is a source of frustration to legitimate players (and subscription payers).this issue keeps coming up because it keeps being a problem. whatever is done (data mining could be a good start), some sort of crackdown is needed.supporting more action against macro use."
"get a wing of rooks or falcons then, problem solved."
"no, not just me, it's right bacause it so."
"ah, but somewhere you may have (in someone's opinion) fit a ship wrong. also your text is very obviously not green.therefore you are wrong."
"fit a ship wrong? even if so, it's doesn't mean anything here :) but definitely i'm never discuss fittings on forums, which is good, because if i do, it's will be a sign that i irrationally wasting time :)"
"dude logitics are good ships and there are ways to defeat a fleet made up of logis. you have ecm, neuts, etc.a properly fitted curse can drain a logi with one blow from 75k away. also a logi fleet is only as good as its weakest link (the less properly skilled logi pilot) if you break the chain you break the logi fleet. i understand your point really i do. my anti-logi fleet would be:force reconsbc"
"strictly speaking you just need to stop trolling because you're awful at it. failing that you need to stop waving your epeen around like you made a point and, especially, stop crap posting like you thought that this was caod. you might want to learn a bit about the game so while you're flailing yourself in the face with your own epeen you don't look quite so silly.and while you don't have to adapt or \"die\"' it would be awfully nice if you'd at least stop whining. not that your whole \"i am awful and cannot adapt and the reason everybody else can adapt is because they are so much worse than me! if they were as good, or even better than me they would be as helpless as i am if not more so! it is only because i have a hefty, swinging epeen that i am powerless and need ccp to save me, lol you must really suck if you don't need ccp to protect you.\" ... isn't funny.p.s also you are right. posting entirely in lime green really does make your argument stylish and sophisticated. people respect folks who are unable to write with text that isn't just so gosh darn pretty."
"so your saying... to survive in this game i need to be more like you.as in... i need to steal flavour of the month setups from pl, use them poorly, blob the **** out of anything that moves then say its ok if this game is boring... as long as i know how to \"win\" it.btw im willing to talk to anyone about these things on my ts3 server if you want to have a more detailed chat about these things.i of course expect you to take the vuk lau approach to this invitation, theres no way you can lose an argument you dont have right?"
"my? perhaps you mean \"you're\" as in \"you are\" and not a possessive like \"your\".'i guess that, what with typing in all green, making sure you can wrote on an 8th grade level is a bit much.also seriously stop trollng; stop smmqcking yourself in the face with your epeen. not only do you keep confusing the forum with caod but your ignorant rage is silly: rzr was using armor hac gangs about a year and a half before pl, not that that bit of your trollng matters either. and no, just stop whining and trolling people on the forums and asking ccp to save you and adapt so that you can counter logi heavy gangs.p.s. a very good way to spot a third rate whine is when someone starts complaning that a larger group of players are a \"blob\". bonus points for your troll about \"blogging\" right next to your own refutation as you babble about ahax gangs which routinely fight outnumbered 2 or 3:1. you can't even make up your mind what you're trollng about, the lack of mid sized gangs or the fact that people are using mid sized gangs but you can not adapt so ccp has to rescue you."
"this is a really bad idea. logistics aren't an i-win button by any stretch of the imagination. not having them at all is usually an easy way to lose fights. there is an upward limit where having more logistics in a fleet no longer provides a benefit in any event. additionally, there are already many different strategies in the game to foil a fleet with logistics support. not being able to win because the other fleet has logistics is possibly the worst cop-out an fc can use right now."
"one does not simply abreviate logistics to logi... dear lord the 8th grade teachers might complain. also you might want to check your \"i\" button because you wrote \"trollng\" something like 3 times as well as \"complaning\". write/wrote was/is to name a few errors in your syntax. i guess learning tense comes after 8th grade from whatever country you are from?furthermore thanks for the \"we are really good we fight outnumbered!\" line. i was hoping you would pull that.i have seen first hand how bad you guys are, and that is exactly my point. an ape can pull off what you are doing. i not only know this because of fighting you and people like you, but i use logis far more than you can/have and have had much better results. i am warning you that the path we are going down is going to lead to a very boring eve and pretty soon. if you want to complain that all this is is that i want ccp to save me from something i use/do and know to be easy. then continue. but dont delude yourself into believing for a second that you arnt just trying to mask the fact that you wont be able to adapt to another change because god help us this game might actually require more skill and thought to perform well in.ps. shameless plug:"
"no, the abbreviation for logistics ships is \"logi\". and typical trolling on your part: you can type in all green but you have a 7th grade vocabulary, so attack typos someone makes with an iphone. of course the rest of your post is just more trolling plus some hillarious lying. caught in your lie that rzr lifted ahax from pl you just try to move on with more caod crap posting while lying and claiming that anybody said anything about being \"really good\". i was simply pointing out that your trolling sucks and you want to troll people for having large gangs and also for not having large gangs.not that your babbling about how you can see the future and it's hoooooooorible. (coupled with more caod style smacking yourself in the face with your epeen) isn't hillarious."
"link me to the first razor ahaxxxxxxx gangps i only ever get involved in baby spelling arguments once someone else brings them up and in the same post has several spelling / tense mistakes (ok the spelling i can say... whatever its an iphone...) but saying \"was\" instead of \"is\" is probably not an issue with your iphone.pss do you agree to come on ts/vent and have a chat about this? seeing as how this is all an elaborate troll?"
"more ignorance. not knowing basic 8th vocab is not the same thing as a typo. not that i'm surprised, mind, people who have to write with pretty colors aret doing so because their text is great on it's own. of course it's telling that knowing basic vocabulary that a 15 year old should know is for \"babies\"... but it's still too advanced. green text though, that you've mastered. and ah well my iphone doesn't exactly have huge buttons and i is next to o. of course, you still can't use an 8th grade vocabulary.and nice bit of trollling, you make shut up about rzr lifting a gang concept from pl and when caught in your lie, you then try to get me to look through our billboard for some engagements where we lost enough ships that you can see gang fittings/composition. as trolling goes i give it a .5/10good try though."
"the ***ottry in this thread is astounding.flame wars aside, wanting logi blanket nerfed because they are fotm is a bit dumb.so some small 133t alliance thinks up something good, uses it enough that folks notice and start using it, and then suddenly its op because the less 133t alliances happen to have more numbers?and yeah, logi chains are hard to properly break unless they are inexperienced. so what?start looking into avenues to counter logitrains.or hell, nerf the guardian/basi cap chains, bring their repping capabilities in line with the other two.non the less, minigins nerfs essentially make a hella long skill pointless, but required for carriers. thats fail whichever way you fudge it."
"my proposal is very simple:when you open the star map, i would like it to be centered on your current location."
"issue: currently, there is zero gameplay planned for incarna. there is some talk of mini-games, like gambling or bar/pub games or what have you, but nothing concrete.solution: integrate the game foldit into incarna. foldit makes a game of challenging the users to come up with the optimal configuration of molecules for a given protein. it's got bright colors, spatial manipulation, and playing requires no knowledge of chemistry or molecular biology. read more at their site.there are a number of ways the game could be integrated: as a lp store mini-game, a replacement for the daily research agent mission (courier or trit), some kind of mechanism for the completed protein folds to turn into collectibles or isk payment for solving, or some sort of competitive game that people could play against eachother for isk, just off the top of my head.pros: *harnass users' brainpower for good (helping to develop cures for hiv/aids, alzheimers, etc.)--could do a lot more than a few thousand bucks for pakistan.*futuristic and science-y, fits into the game*would get awesome pr and mainstream media coveragecons:*probably pretty complicated to implement, and ccp seems pretty uninterested in making significant gameplay improvements until they're selling copies of wod and dust...."
"that would be great. looks pretty fun and it would benefit the real world too."
"as i'm against the neural remaps for plex idea here is a counter proposal.let us buy neural remaps for isk. this would become a much needed isk sink in game as ccp yet again stated that it is too much isk floating around in game at the moment.so how would this work:you buy the remap from the nearest station with a clone service. the price is 500m isk, each further remap will increase by 500m isk in cost. so if you become a remapaholic you will have to pay 4b isk for the eight remap and so on.the free once a year remap should be removed, instead you will get a 500m isk reduction in price for the following remap on your characters birthday. this way if you only do one remap per year like today you will get them free of charge and remapaholics won't get a free remap.new characters will still have their first two free remaps on year one as before.benefits:isk sink as the plex solution doesn't actually remove any isk from game.people who really want to become remapaholics can do it but at a great ingame cost.plex will still only be associated with game time.drawbacks:people who are poor at making isk will not be able to benefit from this.people that are good at making isk will get a benefit, however they will still not train faster than anyone that already is on a year long min/max skill plan. all they will benefit is to mix and match skills a bit more freely."
"arleady mentioned tousands of times last monts...no, \"drawbacks\" says is all, it's about to be a thinking game, this includes some planing, year-by-year planing is enough simple already, is someone cannot see that far - that's their problem. it's same in all other things - if you don't have a pland and goal - then it's logigal that you going nowhere or someone else have a plan for you.the only benefit from that is some small specific skill groups, like drones, leadership, t2 ships. but it's not covers a drawbacks.there is some better ways for isk sink..."
"i agree, planning helps. but as has been mentioned in the other threads, people are going on about how they will remap for every skill and for those this would be a very expensive for a remapaholic that do say 8 remaps per year as they bounce between skill groups:remap number - cost1 - 500m2 - 1b3 - 1.5b4 - 2b5 - 2.5b6 - 3b7 - 3.5b8 - 4bto be honest if someone wants to do that, i have no problem with that. now lets say the person keep on going at the same rate for another year:9 - 4b10 - 4.5b11 - 5b12 - 5.5b13 - 6b14 - 6.5b15 - 7b16 - 7.5bwell at this stage i can't see anyone keep on trucking and if they do, hooray we have the best isk sink ever."
"well, if thiss will grow so progressively, it's can be interesting...:)"
"maybe with an exponential growth of the price instead of a linear one."
"this idea is already being testing on sisi but not for isk for plex's as far as i know in the next patch they will introduce so that you can either put a plex in for 30 days or a remap"
"if people had to pay an exponentially higher rate for neural remaps on demand, i wouldn't have a problem. this would be far better than the system ccp came up with.the fear i have with neural remaps is that it brings rl financial disparity into eve. i and others who aren't going to be hard up for an extra $15 every time we switch a long skill will do that. but it isn't fair for players in general.there are already enough \"i can't compete because...\" in this game to dissuade new players from sticking around. mashie's idea will remove that fear."
"like the idea, but the first remap should start lower, like 200mil, then 400mil then 800mil ect.i dont see the issue with remaps, as it wouldnt reduce the training time by a massive amount, its not like someone could train all skills in 3 years as apposed to the current 20+i believe the first remap should be much cheaper then the other ones, for noobs sake."
"well thought out and a much needed isk sink for the rich...plex for remaps is a bad idea. i can get on board with this though."
"ccp made the tournaments more expensive than they needed to be by flying everyone to iceland so they can have post/pre fight talks. honestly, just like in any sport, post/pre game/fight is mostly filler. could we watch the fights utilizing commentators who aren't in the studio? yes.could we watch the fights and only have devs who already are in iceland chatting about what happened? yes.would people rather hear the opinions of the devs than the opinions of a select group of players during pre/post fight? i would.i am actually in support of a minigin proposal."
"they can only siege/triage for so long. most caps only carry 2-3 cycles (dreads can push up close to seven cycles if they go really light on jump fuel). besides, neuting them only allows you to drain their cap faster than it already would be drained (it isn't like they are cap stable repping in triage/siege).neuts are vital when shooting a super cap, but that's due to the fear that they will log off if given too much time. siege/triage locks them in place. it only benefits them if they are actively managing their modules, so your only rush is trying to kill them before the fight gets bigger. i like fights getting bigger. kill the neuts, let more fights develop."
"so your only rush is trying to kill them before the fight gets bigger. i like fights getting bigger. kill the neuts, let more fights develop.this idea will only work in 0.0 in low sec there are alot of corp that dont have the ability to make the fight \"develop\" not every corp has 7 nyx's or 40 bs capable pilots"
"may i recommend the last 2 rooks and kings videos for killing caps without other cap blobs?neuts are a pretty essential part of that.and you dont want to have to hold down a cap a dread for 30-40minutes just to make it run out of stront so it cant siege again. in that time help might have arrived from 20-30jumps away. (or more if the help comes in form of caps.)"
"cap won't last. cap really doesn't last a single siege cycle if you are really using it to rep. neuts make a difference of a few minutes when killing a cap with a small force. they make no difference when killing it with a large force."
"original topic here:"
"1. dont cross post2. your topic had overwhelming support in features & ideas that it was definitely worth pushing it to the assembly hall3. if you had even taken the time to review the first 2-3 pages of the assembly hall you would have found: assembly hall -> proposal: deployable module outpost demolition device"
"i understand that maybe \"this space for rent\" was meant as a joke pun, but this brings an idea.why not let players rent ad-time for their corporations on the billboards, with a message which scrolls where the bounty info usually is?it could be a subscription sort of thing, you could pay a certainr ate per day showing, or week showing, or something like that.this is a very good idea for one very good reason:no more damn corp-cans."
"this won't work because ccp can't find the section of code governing billboard behavior anymore.or at least that was why they couldn't change it in the past."
"that's kind of irresponsible, and lulzy."
"i think i can find it, remove all of the billboards from the game and watch where the errors come from."
"yeah, an end to the lies!"
"this would certainly be a nice additionlax"
"oh man, you guys have no clue. i was just at ccp's head office, and they have this super dramiel. i think its called a machariet (yes with a t). anyway, it has the same play style as the dramiel, but with double the shields, structure, and damage bonus. and you can only get it by directly converting plex into it. it is so uber.do not get me started on the vindicator mk. ii. carrier-level level tank with no mods, double the web range, and a bigger damage bonus. omfg it has effectively 16 guns and trades for 3 plex."
"and besides this being a troll, your proposal (as in the reason you decided to post this in the assembly hall like a ******) is....?reported for being a moron, a troll, and incapable of finding your own ass with both hands."
"0/10didn't believe it for a second. those are likely gm ships. anyway a vindicator sells for about 4 plex (just the ship) so if i can get one that does double damage for less the price?... more likely you are in your moms basement chuckling to yourself because of how clever you think you are."
"it was previously sujested that eve needs a pizza timer.i propose that a general timer facility be added to the accessories tab on the ui.a small feature that would just be convienitent fom time to time.all it needs is 3 buttons +1 min. +10min and start. and then a count down. maybe in the same area as the agro timer. put it in bright pink or sumthing."
"no. i don't like pizza and such. it's also so bad for health...inbefore... smoke is too, selfdistructing :)"
"supported, a timer would be handy for checking on things in rl without having to stand up and set a real timer (come on, i am lazy)."
"yeah your jag goes 4000 m/s with how many overdrives eh chum?why shouldn't the ishkur get a bonus to drone damage, huh? the ishtar does.the wolf is a devasting gunboat, and so is the munnin, but out of the two, the munnin gets four bonuses and a tracking bonus to boot. give the wolf a tracking bonus.quit crying, i gave ideas for the assault ships that i can fly. i don't know much about the other assault ships, so stfu.obsidian hawk, there is a topic about giving assault ships a fourth bonus, but i did not see any topic about which particular bonus to give. oooopsosorry"
"jaguar already hits 4+km/s with only 1 nanofiber. add lg snakes and a loki and your at 6.3km/s. op's increase is roughly 20% (did it in my head so might be slightly off) so that would put jags topping out about 7.5km/s if my math is right.and, as op was already told in the other boost af thread, a damage bonus to the ishkur would let it pump out 350dps+. thats a bit over the top in terms of balance."
"jaguar hits just under 3000 m/s with one nano and a mwd. and a damage boost letting the ishkur do 350 dps isn't that overpowered tbh."
"o/ csmgreat job so far, liking the align bookmark thingyhas an align fleet option been suggested yet ?"
"+1and align to fleet member too. to his location on a moment of align command, at least..."
"yes it has been suggested before, it was a bad idea and it still is.add an option jump fleet and you dont even have to be behind your computer when your fleet is travelling. and why not also add fleet lock option for the fc, to let entire fleet lock a target. when busy, lets just make it an rts."
"fleet warfare is boring anyway, so why do we need to sit and press f1-f2, while house m.d. is far more interesitng, for example :)"
"i thought the idea was good. it may have been misinterpreted as an fc being able to align everybody in fleet, rather than allowing the fleet to be able to align to a fleet member and the fc being able to broadcast who to align too."
"pretty sure you can already broadcast \"align to\""
"awesome belong on the first page. anymore comments/suggestions before it is implemented?"
"seeing as it has gotten no support from anyone besides yourself.it's not getting implemented."
"so basically it is a matar ship which requires caldari cruiser skill? hmm i dont see anything wrong with that.if it is op then the whole matar race would be nerfed too. poor matar qqers would overflow the forum be rdy for it naband if you want to reduce something start with your forum access thx"
"hi,this was something that was changed over a year ago and i believe it affects both normal and fw missions.i fully appreciate that if the mission objective belongs to someone other than the mission owner you open yourself to be griefed or held to ransom over the objective. i am happy for the objective to remain the property of the mission owner.my post more relates to the wrecks (albeit in some missions the objective is dropped or help in a wreck). in my mind it does not sit right and as such i have suggested that this be reversed and whoever kills the npc takes ownership of it - simple.running missions is not safe and nor should it be, you are open to invasion, ninja salvagers and in some cases being ganked. i do not feel this change would adversely effect mission runners.kro"
"you realize that your second to last sentence covers mission running 'not being safe' and that assigning ownership of wrecks to the player that kills it just makes griefing easier and more safe? why should they have an easier time of griefing a mission runner, why should the 'ninja', griefer, and even ganker always be safe? griefing *is* safe and doesn't need to be boosted for scared players who can't take the 'heat' that a mission runner in their pve ship might fight back if they stole loot from the mission runner through taking the loot from a wreck the mr destroyed or one they might actually destroy themselves."
"could go well within ccp's plan for microtr... oh wait, i didn't say the word !would be nice, supported.and maybe they would change their means for implementing logos should the need arise."
"if you see how many fairly old alliances are without logos in game, do you really think adding another kind of logo to the \"to be reviewed\" queue is going to be a good thing?"
"you see, this is actually a good idea however the current process for reviewing logo's is just not going to work any more.instead of reviewing every logo submission can't it be the other way around, review a logo if there's enough complaints about it, this way ccp doesn't have an omgwtfbbq huge queue and this would actually be viable.~xeross"
"this is a good idea. it would be better if the stock market system was better fleshed out in eve."
"every patch they have released has either ignored something or made something worse as far as the ui is concerned.6 patches in now.... 6!!!! that's insane! it's like we are becoming grandiose beta testers!sorry but i'm not getting paid [enough] to test things that break!the cop-out thread they created to \"claim\" what they are up to is too obvious.i propose the csm begs/asks/queires ccp on who the hell is running their so called dev department and force them to reneg on all patches prior to the first optional patch and then test them throughly on singularity before releasing them to the wild.this isn't bloody micrsoft... we are not interested in patching the patch that was patched that is being repatched in the name of some invisible thing that we can't see but claims to run better.yes i know that the game has some issues and yes i know they are doing \"grand things\" (supposedly) but for crying out loud.prior to this crap.... it was working...yeah....it may have been slow but it worked. now i/we can't link in eve mails... note pad is like a damn mine field.. overview continues to screw up in doubling/tripling entries.client crashes...etc.i'm hearing the same complaints from all over my alliance...and only a very select few aren't reporting issues...and when i say few... maybe 1 in 10 pilots... that's sad.now i already know this proposal is doomed from the start.... but i know i'm not alone in this when i say something has to be said...and something needs to be done.i'm deathly afraid of incursion... what's next? mouse clicks being off by 1?"
"i believe the term you are stumbling around for is \"expansion\""
"patches are fine and so far mostly brought the game forward.they rewrote the entire technical background behind the ui so they can overhaul it which is important by now if you look at that ugly thing. read the devblog concerning that. it is necessary and we will profit greatly from it. if you are to daft or unwilling to understand what they explained in the devblog that's not ccps problem, their information policy to this topic is alright.i for one don't know one single player that had problems so far except in the beginning when some window sizes went bonkers - not a big deal."
"why all the anger, you are ****ed off all of the time dude. chill, eat some fiber, rub one out come back and try again."
"eve music is nice and all, and it certainly brings the expansiveness of eve together. but i think it would be a nice little addition if we could route our own music files through the in game juke box, so if we are roaming and need a song to pump us up but dont want to minimize eve to use itunes, we can just use the juke box."
"as my in game jukebox currently contains dethklok and alestorm id say you already can"
"you can? how? teach me this devil magic!"
"playlists button."
"i am surprised that no one else finds this annoying :(kro"
"imo just make them unable to lock subcaps. this will force them to travel with support instead of just lolhotdropping.actually mazz posted a bunch of changes earlier that sounded pretty reasonable -- lower their ehp, no locking subcaps, scs can't rr so you don't get a lolspidertank. what ever happened to those?"
"bump"
"hey guys, rememebr to hit the 'check here if you want to give suuport to the idea/discussion going on' box if you approve.and yes, traveling from the most remote systems to jita and back in 5 minutes is bad game mechanics. people are screaming 'don't make eve smaller' by shooting down all those 'supergate' threads but the never say 'lets make is bigger.'back to jita... importing aeverything from and exporting everything to jita makes no sence if your living in the farthest nul sec systems. it should be a challenge to live out there without the jita access we have come accustomed to.edit: after my 'makes sure you hit the thumbs up button' thing, i forgot to hit the 'thumbs up' button."
"i agree with most of the stuff here but...warp speed up needs to go because right now i see my ship rarely going full speed before i arrive with that combat ships should all get their warp speed lowered by quite a bit except those that are meant to be fast interceptors mostlytransport ships should stay the way they are because they obliviously have more room to fit big warp cores rather than combat ships that need to have all sorts of generators big armor plates etc i also would like to see bigger warp ranges overall and more systems that to an extend that it would be crazy to trade between amarr and jita as single person that way we would see more smaller markets 'along the road' having empires divided by lowsec is a great thing imho"
"i have always thought that the fourth bonus should help make the af (assault frigate) a heavy tackler and not be ruined by warp scramblers that turn off their mwd (mirco-warp drive). because when that happens they are dead in the water and insta-popped. so in doing so i propose the following:+7.5% to afterburner speed per frigate levelthis would help the af keep his transversal up while tackling larger targets and also with shooting them. this would also help out with the speed missions where you can't take a mwd and it works better with an ab (afterburner)."
"this \"bonus\" of your is not new. they put it on the test server before apocrypha went live and it worked... too well in fact.turns out that certain frigates could be tinkered with to fit cruiser sized afterburners and go at [slow] mwd speeds without the signature penalty that a mwd gives. sure, using such abs made a frigate turn like a barn... but for some frigates (namely the ishkur) this was not an issue as most of its dps could be applied \"remotely\" (i.e. they orbited at 20km and used drones).much qqing occurred and ccp backed off from adding the ab bonus to assailt frigs.edit: grammar fail."
"if they just nerfed lag, there wouldn't be nearly as many problems with drakes, ya know."
"where do you guys stand vis a vis ccp on balance issues? seems to me there are a lot of them and that they'd be very easy to implement immediately and adjust as soon as needed/wanted. people have written up detailed recs on topics like field commands, afs, eafs, increasing logis warp speed, tweaking the onieros to be less worthless, etc.when are these going to make their way onto the to-do list? just change some db numbers, see what happens, if it's imbalanced, tweak them."
"you could save some time, though. step one: find a nice green lime. step two: cut it open and verify that it's juicy. step three: jam it right into your eyeballs."
"if you have any balance issues going through it would be nice if you mention the omen"
"i have seen ccp slipping down this slope for a long time, and i think this is the straw that broke the camel's back. although i don't have as much leverage as you do, as a former csm delegate, i will join you on this protest.as of mid-november, this account will go inactive. any possessions will remain with the characters if and when i should happen to return (ie if ccp regains some sense).it seems like hitting ccp in their only notable metric (their income) is the best way to accomplish this task. while i may not have agreed with you on everything you have posted, i respect you for sticking to your ethics, and wish you the best."
"now that the reports are out (and no, the read is not insanely long), i have to call bs on one issue they said. they stated during the incarna discussions that stations have no windows. bull!i figured i'd post this because they said they want to hear players call them on a bad play. this is one, and while i can understand the technical difficulties of no windows in stations, this is a pitiful avoidance of the issue at hand."
"very interesting video on youtube of markee dragon (shattered crystal fame) interviewing jared psigoda (a kingpin in rmt consulting \"chinese gold farming\""
"from 22:30 he talks specifically about eve online, and plex.he even says he thinks ccp is \"smart\" in how they are attacking rmt. keep it up ccp, a little sauce in account security department will be nails in the eve rmt coffin. pound them in!"
"i wonder what would happen if min could stop trolling in a post long enough to convincingly complain about how unfair it was that he was being accused of trolling. that or if he didn't feel driven and compelled to post with colored text to show just how serious his argument should be taken."
"i fail to see what your point is by saying all im doing is trolling. whether it is or not; being unable to answer convinsingly is a bad sign.worse yet is that you are happy to spend time giving excuses to why you wont answer the questions i put forward. it would be far more convinsing and reasonable to just answer them. (this is assuming that you can without sounding even more ridiculous)of course by nature if you were smart enough to figure this out you also probably wouldnt be in the nc... but there lies the very reason this argument is still going."
"you confuse the spending of individuals with the spending of alliances. and, as bff as everyone in the nc are, they don't share money with each other. my understanding is that the majority of the supercaps in the game are purchased by individuals or a couple of individuals contribute then share the supercap (yeah, yeah, eula violation). i have an empire alt that i use to carebear. i think a lot of 0.0 people do. sure, the anoms have brought more people back to 0.0 for their isk farming needs, but they are also bitterly fought over as there rarely are enough to go around. besides that, again, we are talking about personal income, not alliance income. alliances cannot tax their members (other than to require member corps to pay in dues to balance the books at the end of each month, which is common practice).if you can show me how an alliance can set an alliance level tax, i think many alliance leaders would love you. this is sarcasm as only corps can tax players ratting bounties. bounties aren't the source of income in 0.0 for players by the way. if they were, people would be better off running lvl 4s in high sec by a long shot (you get lp and guaranteed things to kill). most bounties are in empire. go to motsu, or amarr, or any number of mission running hubs. hundreds of mission runners grinding in each all the time. the biggest alliances only have a couple hundred to a thousand people online at any given time, and most aren't ratting."
"like i said, trolling while whining that you're called out for trolling is hilarious. of course you're also lying as absolutely everything has been addressed and discussed and, of course, as a troll i'm sure that you would really like it if you could get people to dance to your tune instead of pointing out how full of crap you are.oh, and, caod is a different forum. save your crap posting for there, eh?"
"that you have \"called me out\" for trolling on every single post you have made in reply to me here and in assembly hall yet continue replying alerts me to 3 possibilities. 1. for your sake hope you are trolling.2. you have no idea what trolling is.3. you think i am not trolling and you are threatend by what i am saying and simply want to discredit it.for my purposes it really doesnt matter which is the case. you are still an idiot."
"aaaaaand you're still trolling, while whining about being correctly identified as trolling, what are the odds?now your new troll is \"if i'm trolling then either you are really the troll, or nobody can understand what trolling is, or you can't handle the truth!!! oh, and u r dum.\"of course, i keep pointing out where you say stupid things, lie and troll because i find your antics amusing. but, like a typical troll, you want to pretend that you control the conversation and it's bait and a (you think) ever so clever trap so that if people respond and debunk your idiocy you win because they respond and pointed out that you're trolling so you're right... or they don't respond and therefore nobody can dare counter your argument so you're right."
"you are just a troll! this is not caod! have i debunked you yet?"
"i can't find one right now, but there have been a pile of threads on moon mining in whs. another one that seems to come up a lot."
"1.0"
"perhaps they'll be able to use the t3 technology for pos"
"need fixing"
"i support this topic because i want more tears to flow. carebear tears are easy to harvest and hard to sell due to a...flooded market xd. ninja tears are almost as easy to harvest and sell to mission runners. ganker tears are the sweetest of all though and universally purchased by hauling alts everywhere for a considerable profit. i'd rather support galvatine's option due to the failings of the current bounty system. not that i think galvatine's option doesn't contain flaws (which are pointed out in the relevant thread). i'd rather see larger scale conflicts in high-sec that make it as dangerous for gankers/ninja's to operate with impunity due to player interaction, not concord interaction. this is relevant because every ganker/ninja i know or speak to does it to \"encourage carebears to pvp.\" never have i heard a ganker/ninja say something like \"i do this because i have a small ***** irl/my mommy told me i have to move out her basement/i get bullied at school and this makes me feel better/my gf stomps on my ********* while wearing high heels and this just makes me feel better. honestly, if you do feel this way, do it right. go down to your local police recruitment center like all the other bullied kids i knew in high school and learn to harass people irl for fun and rl profit. this will get the pvp that gankers/ninjas profess to desire in high sec going (rather than joining fw or rvb). exciting things like dodging fleets of bounty hunters who used to be former corp mates with an ax to grind, or a blob of noobs trying to earn enough to buy first battleship. actually i think that maybe any corp that has over a certain amount of ganks in high sec should have a bounty placed on all members to make it truly pvp worthy, kind of like a wardec. i do tend to think that maybe the gankers/ninjas all <3 a mostly risk free method of producing income (sounds kinda carebearish to me). sorry sec status is too easy (if excessively boring) to increase for losses to be a significant penalty. if i have my hauler alt for when my sec status gets too low, so should you as many of you have been at it for far too long to not have made one.or is the real reason ganking is so widespread is because there are few consequences for doing so and laughter all around for the gankers/ninjas? keep in mind, i've ganked (and made a profit) after having been ganked (and lost quite a bet of my isk, which tbh wasn't a lot in eve terms) and have no real issue with it either way (it just gives me the giggles when a ninja or ganker needs to feed his starving wife and 75 kids and complains when he/she fails to gank/ninja you, seriously..gonna have to make a recording of a corp m8 qqing after failing a gank). <--thats why i'm using this name to post. i don't want him to know its coming xd.or maybe (let the flood of tears be released...please) sec status loss should be directly related to the isk value of goods dropped by the target. you get that one big score and then have to hide out for a long time (kinda like robbing and bank and heading to russia xd). let sec status go to -50ish total perhaps? -10 doesn't seem enough for a profit of 1 bil on a gank. this will repopulate low sec and make teh pew pew all around. i hope you don't mind if i spam \"come through my gaaate, and you'll be podded soon\" when you try to come to my corps \"claimed\" territory. see all easy solutions for teh creation of pew pew. flame on!p.s. for the record, i do it because people hurt my feelings at school xd and it makes me feel better to taste the tears of other people.edited out a / where it shouldn't have been"
"[cosmetic only]if i didn't pay for eve by using plex, then i'd vote no.but i'm not actually paying ccp directly, so in this case, i do believe they should have an alternative way to gain income."
"no"
"no"
"vote no"
"no this would be bad."
"have i voted yet? i thought i had, but can't find my vote, in any case..noone could make an argument for cosmetic only and how it wouldn't affect the game, but i honestly don't think it would stop there, no matter how good the intentions were in the beginning. i also disagree with plex ($ -> isk -> items), but i recognize the arguments for it. it should end with that."
"no"
"no !"
"no!"
"no"
"no !!"
"no"
"no"
"negative, no, never."
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"nowhat next? eve premium omg pwn gold account? not enough im paying every month?!"
"no"
"no!"
"nofor what its worth anyway."
"**** no!"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"* no * :["
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"**** no."
"no! if they start with microtransactions they might as well sell their company to ea or soe. it'll be all downhill from there."
"no !"
"nooooooooooooooooofirst off this wont benefit eve at all. we all know where the extra cash will go. strait to dust (which is fail btw, honestly what is the life expectancy of a fps let alone a niche fps) further as tyranis has shown painfully is ccp needs to fix their game before adding moar stuff. if you really wanna keep the game fresh work on polish and changing the current environment similar to the sansha incursion.i want to play eve, where my will and intelligence is what propels me to success. not some space based version of second life or game where even though im a loyal paying subscriber i'm at a disadvantage to some rich brat with extra paid features i can't justify buying. rant over i'm too young to be a bitter vet"
"no! bad ccp, bad!!edit: this looks like a last ditch effort to find a final source of income before a company goes out of business."
"**** no."
"**** no.stupid decisions do not rectify other stupid decisions ... unless you're microsoft."
"no no no no no dont want no no no farm ville no no no"
"1.0"
"since i know how close the fights against good fitted and flown geddon are if you start at 20km or less, chances are pretty good i never engaged one at 45km. mega(nb, 3mfs): 22 cap/sgedon(mp, 3hs): 32.3 cap/s(+10.3)abaddon(mp, 2hs): 52 cap/s(+30)a single mwd cycle takes 540 cap and you need 3-4 to cover the common 24-20km distance to a target in a mega.time to break even: 2m 40s to the gedon54s to the abaddonthis is only 3 bursts and assuming you only got 1 target. in most fights you will have more than just 1 target and you will need the mwd a lot more than just for 3 cycles to get and stay in range so the cap use is a lot higher most of the the time(before you even consider active tanking)."
"oh yea make them big lolif they cant dock (which i support) then they must be bigger, since they are considered super carriers"
"i vote yes for this proposal. the reasons are following:carebear tears are as sweet cokeninja tears are as sweet as cool aidganker tears are sweet like ghetto aidbut censor tears combined with lawyers tears will send you into a diabetic coma, and we'd get both with the addition of funtari to eve.up with funtari and we'll get the miners to collect the lawyer and censor tears through tearduct interaction, bottle them up (cutting them 1 part tears to 1000 parts water) and sell them as the sweetest drank on the market. the proceeds will be spent to buy plexes for everyone.additionally it would encourage players to join fw to wipe the gallente from the face of new eden."
"well make the hull hitpoints huge and give the station nanobots that repair hull slowly so that this has to be done fielding capital ships.also if this would be possible the station should have slots to put defense batteries in that go in effect when the timer hits 0 and the station becomes destructable shooting ships based on standings (bit weird now aint it that in empire all stations have sentry guns but you cant put them around your outposts)"
"excellent idea."
"a quality idea in assembly hall? no wai!!1!!1!"
"even just a little more cpu would unsuck the omen quite a bit. supported."
"i don't fly the omen now and i probably won't even if it gets buffed but its a clear case of bad fitting gimping an otherwise viable ship for no good reason."
"i would not say that fmp + 1600mm should be possible, but fmp + 800mm + mwd + around 100 points grid should be possible. the spare grid is mostly for the reason that the 1600mm should be possible with a rcu ii similar to the rax. also because you will most likely not have maxed fitting skills if you will fly it in the beginning.also it needs a bit more cpu to."
"it has some crazy fitting issues. supported."
"make it useful please"
"*speechless*"
"legion.covert.fail--;win++;end"
"o/ 10% is a crap use bonus!"
"however, that is not the situation here. the base damage for lasers is higher than the base damage for the other turret. thus, a heavy beam fitted legion can deal 92.4% of the raw damage of a 250mm railgun fitted proteus. while the legion has slightly less base damage it has much better tracking (43.5%). therefore in real combat, the legion is likely to have better damage output than a rail proteus. a artillery loki has worse damage and worse tracking than proteus.with short range fittings, the difference in damage output is extreme, but then so it the difference in range. while the proteus can deal 46% more raw damage than the legion at the proteus' otpimal range, the legion will deal 90% more damage than the proteus' at the legion's optimal range. damage output from an autocannon loki at the legion's optimal range is the same as the legion. going in closer gives the loki an advantage, moving out further to the legion's optimal + 1/2 falloff range and the legion has a 2.8x damage advantage over the loki.there is nothing ridiculous about the current state of affairs. each ship has its strengths and weaknesses. put the legion in the proper situation and it will shine, put in the wrong situation and it will die. this is the way it is for every ship, and is the way it should be. i see no obvious problem with the current bonuses.if you have further arguments in favor of the proposed change, please ensure that they take a wholistic view of the ship and its fittings. do not compare bonuses out of context."
"i think the op's point is that each covert ops reconfiguration subsystem is increasing the damage of the weapons of the ship, in one way or another, where as the legion subsystem does not. unless you can show that the legion's reconfiguration subsystem does not actually increase dps, or show that the other subsystem bonuses are not increasing dps? we're hardly talking about the base damage or the base tracking of the ship's weapons, rather, the op is pointing out, and i agree, that if you had four t3 cruisers, one of each kind, with similar set ups with the covert reconfiguration, and the racial offensive subsystem trained to 1 or more, the legion would be the least damaging of the four.i support this proposal, but not the optimal range increase. extra range in theory is nice, but remember this ship is a cloaker, range in not necessarily useful."
"my point is that the legion doesn't need a damage bonus. it is already built in to the gun's damage multipler. lasers have a built in bonus to damage along with a built in penalty to cap usage. you don't need a damage bonus from the ship to get comparable damage from lasers as you do from other turrets that do have a ship bonus. however, you do need a cap usage bonus to get laser's cap usage down to a level that is comparable with hybrids.if you have the offensive systems skill trained to 5, the other ships have a small advantage for damage that is counter balanced by advantages that the legion has in other areas. if you have the offensive systems skill trained to 4, they have approximately equal but the legion retains its other advantages. if the offensive systems skill is 3 or less, the legion has a damage advantage over the other ships, but has a cap usage disadvantage.comparing bonuses out of context does not work. you need to look at the attributes that the bonuses are being applied to. working as intended."
"supported~"
"idgi what are people angry about, every other modern game out does micro transactions, why should we handicap the company that we pay while the competition all get rich over it?plus im pretty stoked about being able to remap whenever i want, i mean really, have you people even looked at the useless reqs on leadership skills? do i really want a high charisma for a frickin year. no, no i don't.don't listen to the gays ccp, i and many others will spend a great deal of money remapping through plex, and damn the ninny's along the way."
"no plex for remaps! no plex for anything except the 30 days of game time it represents."
"and isk omg"
"i'm referring to the destruction of the plex. when ccp removes it from the game, someone should only get 30 days of game time."
"not too sure about that . . . what happens when local is gone ?- pve becomes more dangerous and ultimately less efficient.- traversing through such a solar system becomes more dangerous.- small gang warfare becomes more dynamic.attempting to turn this proposed game mechanic into a greifing system . . .1. to aggressively deny your enemy local would hurt most notably their ability to generate isk.2. to make your actions affect the enemy significantly, you would aim for their most active systems, which would be ihub systems.3. the effort needed to destroy the tcu + the ihub + account for the multiple ref timers would be so great of a cost that you simply would have to commit to dismantling the entire alliance and not just weaken them be taking one system from them.4. lastly throughout #3, the amount of meaningful combat interaction opportunities further solidifies the importance of this feature and its positive effect on the eve community. this is very true; it would force null sec inhabitants to decide if local is worth six million isk per day (base cost of a claimed system). the end result would expand the concept that eve is all about evaluate the risk of every action.1. no sov = no local (you become less noticeable to other null sec entities) however (you pve with greater risk)2. maintain sov = local in system(your space is now more visible) however (you gain the security that the local feature provides) how is change a downside . . .lets say a mega-alliance does fold, what follows is a power vacuum, chaos and ultimately conflict. this keeps the game interesting and reinforces the fact that eve is a cold dog eat dog world (sorry peta). rebuild ?all that is needed is for someone to reclaim sov + a dt and then presto you have local. but more to the point eve is not about sustaining constancy, it is about change. on a side note:most mega-alliances do not maintain 100% sov throughout their territory; they have holes between their main station constellations. examples: it, razor, drone regions etc. this feature would support hit and run tactics in these gaps of sov. the fc would for the first time be able to truly obscure his true combat strength when conducting roams.thanks antihrist for the comment though."
"oh yeah!"
"supported! then i would have at least 1 use for evegate too"
"1.0"
"you have 24 hours to set your queue, no reason to put this on evegate, and i rather not have a website to have write access in that database.altough that would make awsome posts if someone hacks the website and can get into the database.not supported"
"errr doesn't evegate already have write access ? (evemail)i really don't see any reason not to allow this."
"i support this."
"supported"
"\o/ from your phone, you can change your skill queue that you forgot to update while you're doing doing 90mph on the interstate!"
"holy **** your dumb"
"sov definitely needs to get some more work done."
"yes i forgot how eager you were to watch lag/blackscreen and get blueballed.sometimes for you to have more fun, you have to have less ability to throw 1000 people into any system you want. i know this is a concept the nc is not familiar with. but in pvp gangs we often have to turn people away because as one of your fcs put it so well today as i was listening in on your coms \"no one wants to fight us because they dont have enough numbers.\" again i point out your version of fun is exctremely close (and i would say confused) with winning.if this change goes through and travel time increases slightly but everyone gets better fights more often, is this not more fun? is this not a win for the game?but i guess if the nc suffers a few systems for the greater good of eve the price is too high to pay!also you still seem incapable of providing an explanation for not wanting to chat on ts. i would just appreciate an answer... it doesnt have to be yes."
"agree with lime-green buddy. i just fail to see what good they've brought to the game. bringing easy-lazy fleets form-ups of alliances living 30 jumps from each other ain't good in my book. dominion and upkeep costs didn't change the situation that much, neither the amount of macro-bot-mined-liquid-ozone required can balance that. so yea nerf it already..."
"this whole thread is just dumb! having jump bridges for alliance use won't change a damn thing. nothing! you wan't the game to become more boring? is that it? even if somehow it was changed, it would not change anything. we would still control the north and i guess in doing so still control your game. so you will have to run back to ccp and tug on their pants and beg for yet another change in some delusional attempt to get the game to change where you are on top.how about you use the current mechanics to try and win? is that so hard? we are and are able to do it so it's not like its impossible. what is your excuse?"
"it only misses the bold font face. really ...."
"my point is wasting development time on a change that will do nothing is a waste of time. this change will actually do the opposite. is that what you want? we will just put up even more jump bridges to still be able to travel. so again your plan will do nothing.you talk about how we don't want to put forth effort but it is you all who are the ones who don't want to put forth effort. so you want ccp to put forth the effort so you don't have to. and here i thought you guys wanted a challenge. all you want to do is nerf fun. that's it."
"mlyp."
"kill the macros!ccp turns a blind eye on macros since they provide a steady income from their subscriptions.did i just aggree with northern coalition?"
"data mining would be a start but really all ccp needs to do is a roam arouns stain or other npc regions regularly and i'm sure they'd come across many people marco'ing. is it really that hard to moderate their own game that they need to actually wait for someone to petition a problem instead of proactively looking for them?"
"fix the cheaters and fix the lag, or i going to pop you all @ ccp<3 curses mom"
"1. sure... as soon as you make capitals and supercapitals unable to rep each other as well. same gimping for everybody... 2. could be interesting if scaling back logis to medium rep fittings. don't see it happening though, those would not be carebear ships per say and thus would get low development priority. this could actually work... somewhat...3. well, when we're at that, i suggest me also remove 'dictors and hics as well. why? because we can?"
"it already does that, you just have to zoom in."
"you just contradicted yourself. :) my proposal is that the map opens centered on your position by default. having to zoom in isn't being centered on your position by default."
"deviantart doesnt suck, barrack mate uses it, he was very very goo... aww what the ****, its a place for those of us who never think about moving forward. i've never heard about more than single good use for deviantart, and thats humon (google humon comics), but beside that...also when they say deviantart judges, do they mean people rejected by artworld? im bit confused on the topic. on related note, what the f*** does it have to do with internet spaceships?im happy that what won, won. i also liked naru very much but damn i should have watched some of the non-semi artpieces. especially that caldari mentioned up there, damn."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.what can i even say alongside this picture? i can't be the only one who thought this.of course ccp liked it, it was a myrmi with some bits pulled off, reversed, and a the paint stripped off."
"ohnoez, life is unfair, wahwahwah."
"well, my first thought was wtf, only one or two of the semi finalists look like eve ships. but in the end. they don't have to.if, say the tornado wins all non minmatar pilots will be ****ed. so, it needs to be something unique, not belonging to one of the major races.my votes goes therefore to the jove bc. looks good, fits into the eve universe und is probably totally op."
"i support this."
"i hearby petition you ccp, and beg please please put the 2nd place winner in the game too!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!anyone who agrees post here!"
"can someone clarify this for me?there was a competion, which the winning item, a minmatar ship, will go in game?what does this mean for the other races? are they just gonna be one short in the tier system, or is ccp gonna make the others? sorry havent been following these competitions lol x"
"moved from general discussion and cleared off topic information."
"either invent a new class of ship so that the tornado would be the minmatar hull, then you need one each for the other races. (light-cruiser class?, covops light cruiser?)retire a hull in use, i.e. the bellicose hull, replace with tornado.adopt the gallente \"dusbuster\" hull (second place winner), retire (who cares, there's plenty of ugly gallente cruiser hulls) and replace with the naru-kami."
"the 2. place didn't really match gallente, this one would do this far better:linkagei was like hmm, till i watched the front image a bit longer and recognized something that remarkable reminds me what makes the brutix look mean. it is just a bit to skinny, beside this it is perfect."
"looks nice, it'd be a nice replacement for the hyperion."
"sure, something engaging in incarna would be nice.edited for thumbs up."
"yup. +1"
"to / buy 50 then 100 as used mosted for t2 building doable and fair entoh said."
"i'd choose that over plex for remap, but i would still prefer none of those to be added to the game."
"nice, the current isk sinks are pitiful.sales tax, lolinsurence? it brings in more isk than it takes away!ship destruction. pretty decent if its a massive ship (or a plextrel) but it doesn't come close to the collective lvl 4 mission runners/nul ratters make."
"support this in addition to plex for remap.this game needs more ways to be dynamic and make training times approach reasonable."
"isk for remaps in general is a far better idea than plex for remaps.exponential growth instead of linear growth also helps with the \"rich getting richer\" argument, as paying to \"power level\" suddenly gets very expensive.it also takes pressure off of the plex market values, so people can still \"play to pay\" for their subscriptions without needlessly inflating the cost of a plex."
"static prices are bad especially as isk sinks as that holds the isk at a certain level just like it is with skill books those you can never sell below their price~o~edit:this was written while being very tired somehow it lots its sense now"
"either version should not be added to the game."
"this is a terrible idea. everyone is complaining that remaps for plex gives an unfair advantage to those with some extra rl cash (which is absurd since anyone can buy plex with isk ) yet this proposal gives an unfair advantage to those players who are already isk rich. at least with plex, the price stays fairly even and everyone can use it, not just the rich.not supported"
"those who are isk rich can just buy a character with 100mil+ skill pointseither way if your rich in isk or money wise you have an advantage."
"getting a remap for isk is the same thing as getting it with plex. you can get plex with isk & vice versa.the rest of your idea is interesting, but it's overly complicated."
"hm. what if we combine this idea with plex remap?for example:1. 2xplex2. 4xplex3. 8xplex...it's as another alternative, also far more better than original remap idea..."
"sure, but at least we have a lesser evil here..."
"let's put a simple wild-ass assumption in the room same as yours then: quoted part from op is utter rubbish. 1. \"worth it\" is hardly a quantifiable factor at all. worth it for ccp financially? worth it for your personal e-peening? worth it because only under the totally artificial tournament rules you feel you can compete? take your pick or what? 2. i do not enjoy the tournaments, i rather think they are a total waste of time (if i even recognize them being held). that already turns your statement into a blatant lie. i'd rather have ccp spend the resources \"wasted\" there on more stable and bug-free gameplay.3. considering those resources (past tv coverage and what not) could be utilized way better than help perhaps 500 players out of the whole playerbase stroke their personal e-peens, i'd instead advocate for curbing resources spent on tournaments to the absolute minimum. or tl:dr - nobody cares. so actually... i tend to go in the complete opposite direction... your lack of viable arguments for this proposal made that way easy, tbh."
"this has probably been proposed before, but i can't seem to find a relevant post.as a seller of blueprint copies (bpc) i find the current limit of 21 contracts to be inadequate.compare:* trade (rank 1) - adds 4 orders per level* retail (rank 2) - adds 8 orders per level* wholesale (rank 4) - adds 16 orders per level* tycoon (rank 6) - adds 32 orders per levelto:* contracting (rank 1) - adds 4 contracts per leveli propose adding contracting skills, such as:* fine print (rank 2) - adds 8 contracts per level* contract law (rank 4) - adds 16 contracts per level* legalese (rank 6) - adds 32 contracts per level"
"corporation contracting skill enables you to sell more.up to 60 contracts iirc."
"makes sense, and seems like a reasonable proposal.supported."
"correct, though corporation contracts are completely different from individual contracts."
"add a \"fits current ship\" tick box to hangar and containerswhen the tick box is ticked you only see modules which can fit on your current ship.takes into account your remaining slots/grid/cpuwhen you fit a module that takes charges/scripts, those charges/scripts then become visible.nano paste visible if you have thermodynamics skill.booster visible if you have the skillz and an appropriate module fitted to take advantage of said booster if neccessary ( wont apply to exile )third party apps seem to be able to supply some of this functionality.makes fitting ship easier when you have all your stuff in 1 can/hangar.client side only change so no impact on server ??"
"i personally would also need an option where you can select different sized modules as well. fitting a battleship with this feature wouldn't really be helped if i couldn't exclude small/medium/xl modules while doing so."
"i'd like to see a hulk-class ship with:* larger drone bay.* increased drone bandwidth.* drone damage bonus (drones are a miner's only defense).* higher agility.* increased ehp.* able to fit gas harvesters, possibly at the same time as strips (can't change subsystems in w-space). maybe 1 strip hardpoint and a 3x yield role bonus so same as hulk.* ore/ice/gas bay.* faster (w-space asteroids tend to be tens of km apart).* extra mid-slot for a scanner.* capacitor usage reduction on strips.* longer targeting range (allows use of wstabs instead of mlu).it doesn't have to mine more to be a better & different ship.it shouldn't be invulnerable, but it should have a survival chance against the dangers of w-space."
"supported if it can mine gas coulds ^^"
"made the obvious more obviousproposal:add a specific petition category to alert ccp of hacked and compromised accountsprosit would be more obvious as to where you petition this issue (it is currently a little ambiguous)faster response to your petition and quicker account freezingconsplayers without enough proof may incorrectly petition an account with no problemsothergive this new category the highest priorityadd a warning (and repercussions) if this petition catagory is abusedthis proposal would allow people other than owner of the account to notify ccp"
"if your account has been hacked/compromised then its likelly your password will have been changed and you will no longer be able to log into your account to create a petition.other methods such as rl email are more appropriate for this functionality."
"i updated the post to make it more obvious.other people can submit a petition for you, or if you have multiple accounts you can use another although these would probably be compromised also. also to note is that you can't always guarantee the victim has the right emails or that the time is right for a direct call. the times that i have required this function have been when we've (corpmates) noticed an account being online when the owner is unable to get access. in these instances we've had to use the stuck petition (which works but isn't the right place) combined with emailing security@ccpgames.com even still, i do not see this as being enough reason not to add it.-t'amber"
"this is the only part of this i don't like.i really don't want other people \"helping\" me out in this fashion. i'm quite capable of handling my own account, thank you, and i really don't need ccp locking my account while they investigate a false alarm."
"maybe introduce guristas, sansha, blood raiders and serpentis factions into fw? just an idea."
"not supported. it is a good idea, but tbh you people are submitting too many proposals. settle down and let ccp fix stuff and quit yapping about your stupid ideas."
"why are you against the angel cartel, they sell you some bad stuff.maybe not this but better less ******ed npc's would be nice, and more of a way to interact with the pirate powers then missions that are not in lo sec!"
"oops forgot about them."
"tch your op is sort of half assed for an assembly hall thread, you could ditch it and create a round table discussion about the npc pirate factions in features and idea's. or take a good half hour and think up a decent proposal with a plan and details.assembly hall is more for a finished product to be voted to be passed to the csm's. i think the base of your idea has some merit. it might be interesting to see it reworked and submited when details are clear and the new gameplay defined."
"proposalsupply current and complete tranquility & singularity machonet and cahce files for download*allow this service to be used through a new feature on the repair toolsupply easy to understand instructions on where to put these files, if it needs to be done manually.prospeople who have problems with bulkdata downloads (which cause client errors) can download the current working filessome people do not have to ragequit because they can't play the game after new patches are releasedwe don't have to download mazz's machonet files and fret because we're not sure if we've been compromised or notconsthis will require someone to make these files available, regularily.someone might get confusedotherrelevant post for this problem:"
"i agree with this guy if you look nuets are under enginneering not electronic warfare. not supported."
"1. don't be a smartass - and technically i cross-linked - not cross-posted.my topic had zero comments or responses when i decided to cross-link the post here herewell, to be fair i browsed the first 2-3 pages, and the one you mention wasn't there when i posted. but hey, you want to be a smartass, so rock on..."
"may as well put this on the back burner, considering the vastly more important stuff that needs to be fixed......but if the dev's could find a few minutes to address this \"problem\", that would be great. warping to acceleration gates at 0 usually warps you \"into\" the gates, or at least it seems that way after the last expansion.maybe make it warp you in at 500m or 1k so you don't get stuck in the gate, but can still hit the \"activate gate\" button without floundering around for five minutes.anyways, tiny gripe, just wanted to mention it.*goes back to lurking*"
"yes, i think it's very simple to do.as i remember, it's been quite a pain in the ass when i do missions..."
"good idea and when you land inside them sometimes when you're paying a limited amount of attention you don't just get stuck you get slingshotted off of the gate and have to reapproach. also fix warp to zero while your at it. i don't mind it but sometimes in a pod and hitting \"warp to zero\" on a station you still land 1.3km away from the docking ring... seems pretty stupid."
"my smartbomb bs supports this"
"i love this idea, even if the only benefit to come from it would be reuniting some lost code with its programmer."
"supported~"
"very often in eve, i'll need a mod and find that the closest match is 6 or so jumps away. that means 12 jumps to get the mod. this kills a lot of time i could be playing the game. would be great if we could pay an extra fee to have it delivered so we can get on with pvp/pve. it seems to me that the act of jumping xx amount of jumps doesn't add to the game experience. to me its a tedious time waste. as far as the specifics, i'm sure it could be limited to xxx amount of m3 per delivery and limited to a xx jump radius. it could be limited to low-sec and higher or whatever. the cost per delivery could be based off your trade skills. this wouldn't get in the way of the gankbears cause the m3 size delivered is limited. anyways, just a thought."
"ccp tries to get as much stuff out of the hands of the npc into players hands and for players we already have courier contracts."
"sure as long as the npc haulers use t1 industrials, and the standard autopilot ai (warp to 15km, slow boat to gate). i think that if they put this into effect with those stipulations in place, then they should allow the service to move items anywhere in eve for a fee. if the npc hauler gets blown up, you lose your items though.i could see a system like this putting people such as red frog out of business, personally.."
"i would say the max amount of m3 that you could have delivered would be say 200m3. this isn't intended as a way to move freighter/badger loads 100 jumps across eve. i imagine the max range of the deliveries would be a 5-8 radius from wherever you are. so no getting stuff delivered from jita if you are in 0.0."
"... said the drunk man, looking into the mirror."
"oh please do shut up cromo effect.your obviously failing at everything you do in eve."
"thread locked. the content is not constructive."
"could be useful."
"long overdue, so yes."
"guys his topic has already been posted, please keep all ideas and discussions to the original thread. link is in my previous post."
"opposed, ui is badly f***ed up as it is still, no need to provide ccp with more incentive to screw it up for weeks/months again."
"yo ppl,i got a suggestion to make. they should make a ship specificly designed for smartbombs. as we all know, smartbombs are useless except for that very close-orbiting ship in that rare mission or something, the only way to get decent results is by a officer smartbomb for like 3bill or something , its just not practical. this new ship could get bonuses to range and damage or rof. might be a fun little ship to pvp or run that fun mission in. but still just a suggestion. plz comment if you have other suggestions"
"why not make a new kind of ship that can use giant smartbombs that kill everything on grid?"
"in all honesty i understood one thing from that giboncrug affair - you can cheat, as long as you dont rmt."
"normally at fanfest, the csm offers a q&a roundtable. but since ccp foots the bill for our attendance, maybe there is more that the csm could do to \"earn its keep\" and represent the community while there--either instead of or in addition to the standard q&a session. perhaps funny skits? presentations? interviews? impromptu surveys of players? if you have a good idea, share it! all reasonable suggestions will be shared in our internal forums where we are brainstorming fanfest ideas right now."
"first,lap dances in gorilla suits and sumo suits."
"i think it is critical that ccp fly all the past csm to the next fanfest. this would show the players of eve that ccp is.... uhm committed to making the csm relevant to .... uhm eve being best ever and that since the first csm ccp counted on the csm to provide all the ideas the players love in eve and the past csm.... well stood against all the things in eve that needed standing against ... and that having them there shows that even after their terms the past csm continues to stand or sometimes after the pub crawl lean against those terrible stand againsting things! having the past csm there also shows ccp clearly hears the voice of the players through the csm about the importances ofuhm... well microtransactions!!!! oh the humanity!!and how awesome/horrible the idea of incarna is!!!and well.... the terrible problem of too many/not enough supercaps!and how low sec should be safer and more profitable for carebears while also being awesome for pvp and pirating at the same time!and how 0.0 sov should be possible for small corps while still retaining everything the larger alliances want as well!then of course it also proves...that.... uhm.. ccp hears you all about the csm needing to be more than just a pr stunt to give some lucky players iceland vacations while they are in the csm... flying in the past csm would prove that the csm is not just a stunt to provide some player vacations in iceland for a year.... its about a pr stunt to give lucky players iceland vacations for life!!!!! just think how many more folks will run for the csm next election!!!besides the past csm would let players- take a great csm group photo!- speak with/shout at/hug/kick/throw a spoon at/share a beer with/throw a beer at their favorite past csm!- learn first hand how low the bar was to be elected to the previous csms- have more csm to throw into the volcano to sacrifice to the gods of lag!- more experienced guides to help you back to your hotel when the devs ditch you drunk and lost at 4:00 am after the pub crawls!- have more folks that can tell you if you just ate 2 year old shark or dried rams testies! (ok, maybe folks that swear that's not what you are eating after offering you some!)in summary having all the past csm there shows ccp has a strong committment to committing!!as to what the current csm could do at fanfest, i vote for a roving beer cart that goes to all the meeting rooms during the day!issler"
"you are over reacting, t. this seems silly."
"it depends on how you look at it. we all play eve or any other game because we find it fun, and when looking around eve, you can easily find scores of different definitions of \"fun\". sometimes fun leaves when friends leaves, or gameplay changes, and sometimes the fun goes away when perspective on a game shifts. this is most often seen when something happens in real life with family that is life changing (marriage, life, death, etc), but sometimes random wakeup calls happen in other ways.is reevaluating the time and energy put into a game due to this any different than leaving because you found a new hobby or relationship and your priorities changed?"
"i try to be amusing ... and in this case, also right."
"at 29:40 he (the chinese gold farming kingpin) offers to help game companies in stopping account hacking. his justification is that it hurts \"legitimate rmt trade\" as much as it hurts the game players. ccp consider giving this fellow a chat and seeing the perspective from the rmt side, possibly even getting some insight on account hacking."
"no"
"no"
"no, no, no, once more no"
"no"
"yes! sorry guys, i'm not poor."
"no"
"no. not even for cosmetics.tl;dr:\"do not give the devil a foothold\". i'm not saying micro transactions are evil. but giving this a foothold in the ccp mindset will only lead to more and more of it. also, there's an old saying... \"you can take them out of egypt, but you can't take egypt out of the israelites\". so of course if ccp introduces micro-transactions of anykind, the player-base in general is going to revolt. eve was built upon $15/month to do whatever you want and anything where real life money is involved is going to be a *very* thorny issue. i'd rather leave micro-transactions for another game entirely, such as world of darkness. dust514 is tapping into eve and if it's on a micro transaction model, then there's going to be constant division and controversy, possibly even a \"rich kid\" elite force that makes them very tough- not because of skill, but because of deep pockets. we wage enough daily battles trying to earn a good income. i really don't need some rich, super-upgraded noob to rub that fact in my face every night. one of the great things about eve is that everyone starts the same, like a chess game. it's about strategy, planning, and taking advantage of weaknesses.- what if, during a match, we could pay to get our queen back? or upgrade the knight with more maneuvers? what if our opponent had a parent who didn't want them to spend money to upgrade their chess pieces? is the game really fair or balanced? /end"
"thumbs up = thumbs down to mts, wierdly enough or maybe just for vanity items: buff pirates by making it easy for them to know who has the really big wallets to rob."
"no."
"noit would ruin the sandbox (plex-selling is bad enough)"
"nothere's too much of this microtransactions crap just about everywhere"
"rl money for game time only. not even for cosmetic items.-> ccp should focus on creating a game that is fun to many people, not on melking the cows by creating in-game assets that sell well."
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no. eve was advertised and sold as a subscription game, not a rmt game. if you change things now, you risk alienating your player base and losing money. ask sony about swg, once you alienate your current player base you are done; the game will slowly downsize. if ccp needs more money \"to expand services\", raise the subscription rate by a dollar, it's much easier and you don't have to worry about abuses or unfair advantages, or players being annoyed by the system (which we will be). look for other means to raise revenue. make/sell (better than currently available) killboards/forums on eve gate, charge for api services, have a 'premium' website that gives paying members some inside info and insight, look outside the game for those revenue streams."
"yea, i don't like the way ccp rushes into new features. lots of existing features are in prototypical and unfinished state. as op says, i'd like to see some significant effort to improve 'old' features, like missions, pos management/industry interfaces or faction warfare."
"fully supported, btw."
"supported"
"agree with op, blasters need some love.as they are meant to be the middle ground between ac and lazorz, i wonder why they suffer from both the ac reloading time (10s) and the laser lack of choice when it comes to damage types.blasters/rails as a middle thing between ac and lasers would make more sense if you had like 5s reload and two different damage type combinations (even if it were more thermal vs kinetic.)."
"omen badly needs the attention, and has for a long time."
"well i wouldn't mind a sleipnir that can fit both point and web."
"part 1 can be found here.for those too lazy to go back and read the original post, here's how things start out:much clamoring of carebear paws and honeypots commences. csm delegate trebor daehdoow all but gloats, saying:as of now, this issue is supposedly being presented (along with 199 other issues ) to ccp for review. now, i'd like to open this thread back open for discussion for a few reasons:a.) i don't think a barely 2 page thread merits this being a closed issue.b.) i find that an elected member of the csm who has a frightening amount of power over this calling a working-as-intended game mechanic a \"sleezy loophole\" simply because it does not fall in line with their play-style more than slightly disturbing.c.) most importantly, i've just now seen the original thread and its locked and i wants to open my mouth.and so, without further ado:"
"dear zeriel meholick,a scenario:...seems a tad ridiculous wouldn't you say?i should not have to tell you that eve is by no means a fair game, and i'm sorry to say that there are, and always will be, people who have advantages over others in this game. what can i say, it's an imperfect universe.the mechanism you're referring to of pilots using an orca to switch ships during battle is a fully (oh please don't make me say it) working as intended game mechanic (there, are you happy now?). from ccps original dev blog on the release of the orca in 2008:doesn't look broken does it? what you're suggesting isn't a \"needed game balancer\", it's a solution to your problem. i might add that rorquals and carriers both utilize ship maintenance bays that function in the exact same way. would these changes effect the mechanisms of all ship maintenance bays or just the ones giving your war targets a leg up on you?looking at it another way, is ship-swapping out of an orca really any different than a neutral alt/friend bringing you a ship and ejecting it from it? under current gameplay, this does not flag the neutral, but why stop with neutral orcas? what about neutral station-bumpers? or how about flagging scammers as red to the corporation of the individual they just ripped off? what's next, flagging people for salvaging wrecks? (i couldn't help myself)the guys with the neutral orcas aren't cheating; they aren't exploiting an oversight, utilizing hacks, or using the negative multipliers of a wormhole to create infinite tracking on turrets ( ). what they're doing is out-gunning you. believe me, the people who use them spent a considerable amount of real time or real isk to have them, and there's a reason for that.so what you're really talking about here isn't a broken game mechanic, it's called escalation. when null fleets started using area-of-effect doomsdays, they countered with range-dictating sniper bs fleets. those were countered by logistics-heavy armor hac fleets, and sooner or later, someone smart will probably figure out a way to counter that. these are the ways things work. so,as for your problems with war targets using neutral orcas, i propose another solution: ...get your own neutral orcas.o7,-aiden mournceo suddenly ninjas, tears alliance"
"when in doubt, click \"start new thread\"."
"uh... ok... yeah... sure.cool story bro?o.o not sure how to respond to this."
"i dunno, maybe some novel, out-of-the-blue thing like \"i agree and or disagree, and here are my reasons.i don't think the argument here is, or even should be, whether it's okay to use an orca to rapidly switch ships mid-combat. the argument is whether it makes sense for you to be fighting someone who uses an orca in that manner, shooting the orca, and getting concorddokened."
"should we set stations to be blinky red when your war target docks with them to get a different ship?should we remove the 30 second session timer from switching ships in station?should we add 30 second session timer to pods when you are ejected from your exploding ship?i'm just wondering how much of a shift is needed in what direction."
"delicious ninja tears"
"if only."
"i've gotta say, i support aiden's viewpoint here. if someone uses a tactic, you find a way to counter it. like wardeccing that neutral orca pilot's corp. or something similar. this is eve after all."
"scruffy seconds. you made a very convincing point, both here and on your blog. this is indeed a sandbox."
"this one, at least, exists.onto the main point: dueling is a dead art. if you're going to 1v1 with a wartarget, make sure there's no orca around. if you're going to actually fight the war, then bring some more friends and pop the guy before he can switch. or just keep putting his ships down into hull until he has no choice but to lose one. then pod him."
"i don't see much of a problem here. living with risk is what makes eve eve."
"support, legion has the weakest cov ops of them all."
"you forget that lasers pay for that small margin extra damage in capacitor use, in worse tracking, in inability to swap damage types, and in powergrid and cpu. if lasers were so zomgwtf powerful to justify such an anemic ship bonus, why are laser myrmidons the rarity while autocannon myrmidons are dominant?take a look at the omen. if lasers are so ridiculously powerful, i suppose we should remove the rof bonus on that ship, too? oh, right, i seem to recall another petition on these boards reminding people what a failure of a ship that platform is.yes, lasers do more damage than most other turret platforms at a more consistent range -- and they pay for it appropriately in the base module attributes. saying that this compensates for a 20% loss in effective turrets is not only misrepresenting the facts, it's idiotic."
"microtransactions may lead to increased revenue, but not to a better game.i played lotro for a couple days, and nothing was more jarring than \"you must pay 250 turbine points to do this dungeon\" or whatever. totally breaks immersion and ruins the fun of the game."
"mechanics should apply equally to everyone."
"ccp do what ever you want many ppl will be ****ed and perpetuum go live in few weeks up to you"
"meh"
"******ed idea, use your brain. there's enough ways to grief people even in high sec. we don't need a day where pvp wannabes camp the starter systems to kill noobs in bantams to make sure they don't subscribe."
"a day without concord? hell yes, best idea ever!"
"day before concord's day off: 45,000 players online.concord's day off: 2,000 players online.day after concord's day off: 45,000 players online."
"except those *******s do that now with bait cans, fleet tricks, etc i doubt there will be a sudden and drastic rise in that type of ***hatery when there exist numerous highsec systems where the clueless/brave attempt to go about their daily routines as if nothing was going on. pretty much anyone of those players will be flying something fitted with gear you might want to actually loot or that might actually be worth flying to their wreck to take unlike the free ships new players are given through the tutorials. a better argument for those opposed to this is \"i pay for my game time and how dare anyone try to limit me from playing as i like even for a single day, rage optional, etc.\"a one day event like this publicized, with popup warning when trying to undock could be a 'cool' thing for people who don't want to try pvp and get popped before they even get to lowsec or don't want to die to a group of thugs who lay in wait. if highsec had no concord working, there at least exists a possibility of 'equal footing' where everyone can attack anyone no concord intervention. but of course no concord intervention works better for those that fleet-up or do a corp op to hunt but there are still more people in highsec and therefore more chances to run into a other players where everyone isn't on the same side."
"only if concord is in lowsec space every day of the year ( except this day)"
"supported. because why the hell not? everyone benefits from this."
"dear god yes. supported."
"my thoughts exactly"
"no.dear god, do not be so freakin' lazy as to not log in and keep your queue up to date.eve is a game of managed loss. you forget to change your queue the last time you were on? you deserve to lose those points."
"very yes. there is integration in eve gate, how about actually making it useful?"
"supported, and try explaining to them that time zone wars are utter ****."
"posting to confirm the current system is terrible."
"have any of you idiots saying its counterable therefore its ok, ever reinforced a jumpbride? if so how long did it stay reinforced for... you know given the game has triage carriers now...?"
"so now you want carriers to get nerfed now too? anything else?"
"im going to take you through this. step by step. slowly.1. we all want this game to be more fun.2. for it to be more fun - presumably (and as you seem to want to \"get to places where fights are fast\" you too believe more fights are fun) we all want there to be more battles more often.3. the biggest reason we so many people are getting blueballed / bored / dont bother attacking space anymore is because it is too boring. 4. it is boring because coalitions can simply stick whatever number of people they want in a system 50-60 jumps away from where people are staging relatively easy. (please note that jumpclones are not as simple a matter because you dont get to choose your shiptypes/have spare stuff lying around)5. jumpbridge networks not only make it very easy for large coalitions to defend and take their own space, it also increases the effectiveness of defending their own jumpbridges. meaning a coalition such as the nc, will never - ever - never - ever have an issue with their jumpbridges being attacked. 6. now all this is well and good, but lets discuss what is so unreasonable about this.a) this game is already stacked against the people who are going to fight \"outnumbered\" - assuming that the players are of roughly even skill level and knowledge so for the sake of argument two drakefleets fitted roughly the same. - and this is as it should be. there is nothing out of the ordinary hereb) jumpbridges give the force with more numbers and even greater advantage. why? because you can bring together more numbers form a larger area of space in a relatively simple manner.c) im not sure if you are familiar with this next concept, but let me put it to you this way. in most situations irl/in most other games. the choice between sheer numbers and smaller groups can be put down to a few things. mobility and tactics. (which again i would be stupid to presume could make this game more fun... the only thing making this game fun now is fast travel times for people anywhere so they can get blueballed because they brought too many yet again) - what ccp has done including jbs and titan bridges is make larger numbers more mobile than smaller numbers. which i believe to be a broken gamedesign which leads to the style of play and argument that you have used in this thread. which is \"it is not our fault! you should join a super coalition also and kill us!\" which trust me is exactly as boring as it sounds. d) alliances have largely become impotent in the face of coalitions. there is no point being in an alliance and trying to hold space any longer if you dont have loads of blues (because of things like jumpbridges and titan bridges) - this is where i get it is too easy for large coalitions, because it is. the major benefit you should recieve from joining forces with other alliances should be numbers based, and (as in most cases there should be some kind of deterant for doing this - or not deterant but at least reason to make a choice rather than \"bigger is always better in every single case\" - as i have already discussed i think the big and reasonable way to deal with this would be mobility. it makes no sense to me whatsoever that the larger you get the more mobile and cohesive you should become... like what on earth is that...through all of this i have never said \"if ccp doesnt completely remove jumpbridges its ridiculous and unfair\" i have said what i believe is reasonable. \"ccp it shouldnt be a matter of making it more and more easy the larger your \"blob\" becomes. the primary bonus should simply be in the numbers not in every single aspect.\"-this in my eyes would deter a few more people from forming these supercoalitions and also in scaling back their power a tad bit.now in all of this your arguments have been as follows -you can destroy jumpbridges-adapt or die-you want easy mode(relatively few of them between your fixing of my spelling and denail of my sincerity.)"
"now ive run out of room in that post and its difficult to expect any sort of dialouge from a post like that, which is why i have been trying to get you on ts, where it is far easier to discuss points and argue about them at a pace where it is clear to each party what is actually being said.and points can be mulled over till we are both satisfied what we have said has been understood and taken to heart.but if you want to keep correcting my spelling and somehow involving that in your masterplan about how im just trolling or something. you go right ahead.tagline of this thread: making a decision like \"i am going to set this guy blue - comes with major advantages. there seem to be few or no real disadvantages to setting lots and lots of people blue, should this be the case. and is this condusive to a fun game?\""
"oh another issue i believe caused by jbs (which could reintroduce a lot more alliance warefare) is that travel through coalition bridges has allowed alliances like razor to live further away from market hubs / entry points etc. imagine what it would be like if instead of everyone being happy with any space they were given (because of travel through blue bridges) there was competition for the best/closest regions.that could be pretty fun i think."
"no one is making you leroy into the blobs. that is on your own accord. you want a change made in desperate hope so that when you throw yourself on the sword of the blob that you will come out without a scratch. sorry but it just does not work that way.not supported. give it up chromo effect"
"this is so ridiculous... you cant expect anyone to believe that numbers will stop being important if jumpbridges are less accessable to blues? or require more time to go through... there are these other things called stargates you know...the entire thing im trying to get looked at is just to make it more reasonable, not flip the switch...i cant believe im still the one being accused of wanting easy mode..."
"you are the one asking for ccp to change a key game mechanic to help your effort to hurt those who have spent years of operation, planning, devotion, etc to get their highway infrastructure down. you want ccp to hit a button to destroy it all. sorry if we are not running in here patting you on the back and saying it is a good idea.we put forth a tremendous effort, fought off several wars, while you don't want to put forth any effort remotely close to that to have it all torn down."
"project unholy rage is a continuing project which is active even now. they do track this stuff and punish the offenders.unfortunately, the result of this is that accounts are being hacked to steal the isk. i'm against macroers, but i'm also against ccp invading the kernel to detect third-party programs (like some other companies do *cough*blizzard*cough*). preventing macros is a tough battle that will honestly never end.while i support the fight against macroers, i trust that ccp is doing everything they can, as the economy which the macroers affect is the main thing keeping this game going. i'll support this measure as much as asking them to roam the game and interact with it, but there's not really much they can do without alienating their playerbase."
"yea, macros should have no place in eve and game mechanics should not offer isk for macroable activities.i attribute the macro ratting problem to the weird game mechanic that the fattest rats are even in the most emptiest of systems (no very plausible btw), also that ratting itself is basically risk-free.i'd suggest two solutions:1. make ratting less offensively dumb and risk-free. give them rats a few tools that will kill macro player ships, like 'rat hot drops' after a rat puts a point on the player, balanced so that a player will barely get away if he chooses a good 'burn away' vector.2. introduce a game mechanic that ensures that the fattest rats spawn in systems with lots of ship/pod kills, while **** empty space remains, well, rather **** empty."
"just a minor change that would make scanning less of pain sometimes - the arrows on scanning.at the moment, they are flattened arrows and sometimes difficult to pull in the right direction or even click on in certain angles. see the picture below for what i mean.current modelwhat i propose is simple. change the shape of arrows to something to a cylinder with a cone on top like this (excuse my paint.net skills):new modelthis would make the arrows look easily draggable from all directions easing the scanning process."
"for the love of all that human, yes!"
"simple and clever.do want!"
"i proposed a scanning change like this like 5 months ago but it died cause of other threads =\ but had alot of support"
"i had a problem where the arrows were gray in color,thus blending in with the orbs.i later found out that it was that the graphic setting was set to medium thus making the arrows gray. i put the graphic option to high and the arrows turned white. making the arrows easier to grab would be nice."
"yes"
"in before phallus joke.also +1"
"it seem ccp are not able to create folder....no dev read ?move !"
"can't believe that the current contact management made it past any kind of review. ffs of course you want to put them into categories, at least i want to tag a contact entry with some information, like 'changed to red because it's xyzs repping alt'."
"zoom is magnification, center is the camera pivot, those two things are completely irrelevant to each other. and sure."
"second place winner deserves the grand prix! awesome ship, very solid and mighty-looking.so, signed."
"i agree with you, but i wouldn't mind seeing both contest ships as new battlecruisers."
"yes, i like 2nd one too, but who cares, there was so many cool ships that don't even make it to semi-final..."
"stereo glasses support for game.because it's cool and also i think it's will be very comfortable for scanning and map browzing well, and also a last reason to buy them :)"
"stereoscopy is just a hype. ccp should better fix bugs instead."
"this is the alienware lights all over again.no! smooth gameplay > cool."
"today there's no real incentive to invite other players to join the level 4 mission/ratting grind. it's best done solo in some uber-pimped turbo-carebear ship.my proposition: increase bounties paid for npc pirate kills, but fix the average npc rat to try to burn away/warp out when hitting low armor.i predict you'd have all the golem guys screaming for noob web/scram rifter pilots in local."
"fixed your post.and no. just no. level 4's already generate enough isk (as evidenced by my wallet )."
"i've been a member of the f@h project for a long time (folding at home), and this looks like an interesting advancement of that project. i support this measure, especially revolving around items like r&d missions and such (fold this puzzle to get x lp)."
"current situation: when a player opens bookmarks in people and places, all of the bookmarks are shown. bookmarks for the current system are shown in green. most of the time, the player is not interested in seeing bookmarks outside the current system. the loading of unnecessary bookmarks can cause lag, increase server load and consume excess bandwidth.proposal: introduce filters for bookmarks that are similar to the tabs in the assets screen. by default, only show bookmarks for the current system. group bookmarks by system with all systems shown as collapsed by default except for the current system. for these system groups, the right click menu should include location. it should also be possible to show a flat list in the current style and to search for bookmarks with particular names.example:[devoid][domain][amarr][chaven][penirgman]safe spotveldspar[youl][essence]the above is what a character may see when filtering bookmarks by region while in the domain region. the character is in penirgman, so the penirgman bookmarks are expanded. the character has other bookmarks in devoid and essence regions. clicking on another system would expand the bookmarks for that system (and may also collapse lists of bookmarks for other systems as set in the preferences)."
"moar iskies please!how could any nc member say no to this? lol"
"not supported"
"i'm going to support this. using isk keeps microtransactionaries happy, and it also gives those who want it extra remaps."
"lesser of two evils...but a well thought-out lesser evil+1"
"from a user that would sell a plex to make isk it would be the same either way yes, from an ingame economy point of view it is a massive difference.a plex sold for isk in game doesn't remove any isk, just moves it from one player to another.a remap sold for isk in game is the same as buying a new clone, the isk is destroyed."
"in my opinion, there were some modules that would create effects that you wanted to train for just so you have the pleasure of seeing them, or bits of eyecandy that make everyday life more enjoyable.i've got a small list of things that imo changed for the worst after the apocrypha expansion.a) cyno jumping.whilst i must agree that the effect of cyno jumping was rather large and buggy, the concept idea of it was brilliant, and it certainly made you crap yourself when you saw it. the \"bubble jump\" effect we have now just doesnt recreate that, and considering when your zoomed out a little bit, its hard to notice that capitals are jumping in. i propose we bring back the old jumping effects. here is a reference video:-"
"well, +1, but it's been mentioned many times arleady, and someone from ccp says that they planing to change all effects in future anyway...btw, missiles look like fireballs to me, seriously... maybe they should be bigger, and also more visible trail of it, so not just a engine flare of it will be visible..."
"personally, i love the tournaments, but if they're held too often, they will loose their value. it would end up just being an every day thing that noone really cares about, but in its current form, you have the majority of the members in most of the major alliances (and many of the smaller ones) all gathering around a single event that people actually do care about."
"ok the sbu spamming is out of control. the ability to just rage drop all the gates and surrounding systems and take over while the owners are asleep is dumb. at least give the defenders a chance to protect their space.only allow one sbu to be onlined in a system every 24 hrs. this will allow the appropriate time for the owners to form a fleet and defend their space."
"you want to add to the sov grind? /me sits back with popcorn and waits for the showchromo effect/double dee, this will not happen."
"first of all the time can be negotiated. second of all no one should be able to do a hostile take over in three hours. lastly i am not chromo effect. minigin is chromo effect. with his recent assembly hall post along with it being right after chromo deleted his character and the fact that minigin's post and ideas are really terrible, there can be no other conclusion."
"another pretty-colored-text bit? really?anyways, no. you cannot take over in 3 hours, anybody who told you that is simply wrong. you can, if you get 3 uninterrupted hours and successfully deploy sbu's, start the sov grind which can last days, if not weeks if you have competent defenders. hell no let's not extend that. even extending it by 12 hours per sbu would mean that in a system with four gates, it would take 36 hours of uninterrupted and unopposed sbu anchoring before you could start contesting sov. to say nothing of a 24 hour timer between sbu's. hell. no."
"someone mention r.a.g.e.? also--you mad, russian bro?"
"this, she/he burned that alt so quickly ..."
"supported, sounds good."
"a few possible rp skill descriptions:fine printskill in filling the borders and margins of contracts with endless terms and conditions on a scale that even nanotech engineers find impressive.contract lawskill in applying local laws and legal precedents to your contract dealings.legaleseskill in burying contracts in meaningless legal jargon so effectively that nobody dares to contest their validity.oh and supporting my own proposal... i keep forgetting to do that"
"posting to confirm there should be filters in items and assets.some categories?size, slots, cpu > or < than, powergrid > or < than, meta level, damage type."
"supported, as long as harder to scan down, cant out mine a hulk or mac, can fit gas harvesters and only be able to actually mine in low sec or 0.0. (ie the harvesters wont work high sec). align faster and have better defence, all depending on the subs you choose. i think being able to fit covert ops cloaks is a bad idea in my opinion as some have stated they would like that sub in thread. very interesting idea though op."
"why would anyone use a ship worth a billion to mine less efficiently than a hulk ?ninja mining ? then there will be another problem: how do you intend to transport tens/hundreds of thousands m3 unless this ship can get a really big ore cargo (which would a bit op i fear).and even then aren't you better off using a ship that is actually designed to be (and pacify) in hostile space and rat there ?"
"haha, that would be awesome"
"give people a mike and ask them what they like about eve and what they think needs fixed and why it's broken."
"serve drinks (maybe pay for them), clean tables, act as coat stands, cannot think of anything else that you lot can do without screwing it up imo"
"roundtable/qa kind of podcast for those of us who can't make it to fanfest."
"dinosaurs"
"a dunk-tank. seriously. mad props if you get hilmar to agree to be dunked"
"not the kittens!!! say no to micro transactions!heavy duty tin foil doesnt work either, to clarify"
"nope."
"no"
"no.i don't even like the plex systemwhy is ccp talking about adding a new way for people with more real life money to get advantage in the game when they should be working on ways to stop the issues that already exist like macro miners and macro ratters and lag."
"no!"
"yes!not sure what i mean by that, since i jumped to the last page without reading anything else, so don't read too much into it."
"no"
"no!"
"no. not even for \"cosmetics only\" or whatever."
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"hell no!i can see it in tf2 where i paid 25 2 years ago and have gamed since then. valve deserves some  for the support of the game. in eve i pay 15 each month. that is far more than enough. greed has killed others and i see that ccp is next in line."
"regardless of wealth or not, you are completely missing the point i think, or have not been around long enough to care. but each has his own opinion."
"no"
"no"
"thanks for the fishes"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"i win?"
"no"
"no"
"fish"
"no to microtransactions!"
"1000 ???"
"no"
"no"
"meh"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"<U+FFFD>?"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"over 9000!!"
"thanks for all the fish"
"1000th here i come!!! :)"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"sup"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"thanx for all the fish"
"nothanks for all the fish-isk-es"
"noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!/darth vader"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"1000th post win"
"interesting!"
"no!"
"no"
"i want a prize - 1000"
"no"
"enn hoe no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no. :("
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"this t'amber's doing! i don't think she likes microtransactions, lol.well neither do i, i've seem them ruin too many mmos, so you could call me harshly prejudiced against any kind of micro-transaction."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.1000th post?"
"no"
"snipe post"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"fish!!!!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"t'amber is crushing the forum :)"
"no"
"the fishies says no, and means no when no is the only answertherefore i vote no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"me?"
"no!"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no i won't post no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nvm :)"
"no"
"no. cosmetic only"
"cosmetic? whats that?"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"clear no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"yes"
"no"
"no"
"i'd say... no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no thanks for all the fish-isk-es"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no."
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no."
"this one then?"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"i want a prize - 1000"
"no"
"thanks for all the fish"
"sure"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"1000 getalso no."
"no no no and no i say"
"-double post-"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"i voet yes, but eve is not a democracy muthafukkaz!"
"no!"
"no!"
"no transactions please notwe really dont want this ccp... just think if this was a political rl vote with 79% lolz... ccp it is time give up"
"no, fuc yo cosmetics too!"
"nononono!!!!!"
"no!"
"no!"
"no!"
"no!"
"no!"
"no!"
"no!"
"i like this idea! if outposts are left permanent forever eventually all of 0.0 will look like empire, and some regions already do (i participated in creating the madness that is providence)."
"good stuff. supported. doubt it'd make it in anytime soon but there's always hoping"
"players brought outposts into this world, and we should be able to take em out. theoretically, you could use this to self destruct an outpost so you can place a new one of your liking in its place. though, it would have to be for a very good reason to spend all that isk."
"would be fun but not practical.the problem isn't that stations are too cheap but that it's better to place them now due to them being involved with sov.like before people would drop 50 large towers at 360 mill each (18 bill) which is the equivalent to a station.also i remember someone from ccp saying why it couldn't happen when someone asked asked about a station class ship that could move about."
"no0.0 is not utilized enough as it is, making outpost destroyable will just make even fewer folks in 0.0 it is counterproductive."
"+1baww, nullbear tears. please don't bring that not enough players in 0.0 crap up again. there are plenty of targets.. i mean players out here, and more than enough stations too. allowing them to get ****ed places at least some pressure on alliances to pr"
"counterpoint: the last qen snapshot showed that 37% of characters were in 0.0 space.additionally, the csm have already passed the proposal as per deidre's post above."
"idea is good, i am all for killing stations / outposts but lets be realistic here if ccp allowed this you would just get bigger alliances griefing smaller alliances.dont get me wrong i really like the idea of this but we all know how the fat guys work in this game and for easy kills they will attack things smaller than them just for the sake of attacking.eitherway i will support since it does promote more pvp but thats not to say it wont be abused"
"simple and straightforward, pirate implants that boost the hull amount equally if not slightly better than the pirate armor implants."
"real men hull tank."
"supporting a manlier game!make gallente useful!"
"supported.if ccp can act promptly, hackers will look for easier targets, and even non-adopters would be safer. to be honest ccp should have offered this six months ago; now they have to use their precious resources to recover accounts for annoyed subscribers (i wonder what fraction quit eve entirely?)"
"people shouldn't be able to swap ships in mid combat period. if the enemy was in an orca and could be shot i wouldn't mind as much, but if the orca can sit there with a load of ships and coninuously pump out new ones for the wt with no reprocusions, theres something wrong."
"well, i believe there is really no reason, why any additional graphical effect should do any performance loss on servers. but in fact that feature should have an option to be able to disable in the game options. nevertheless, bring them back, ccp !"
"if that was the case, someone doesn't know how to code. this should be a client only effect.too many great old effects have been changed. if ccp played eve they would never have made some of these decisions."
"that is why amarr ships need a capacitor usage bonus, so that the lasers cap usage is less than that of hybrids.beam lasers have much ( 43% | 50% ) better tracking than railguns or artillery. so that is completely false for long range lasers. for short range lasers they have slightly less tracking ( 23% | 30% ) than blasters or autocannons. however, in the short range class lasers have vastly ( 233% | 400% ) longer optimal range.hybrids can't swap damage types either. the ability to swap turret damage types is unique to projectiles.can you justify this statement with comparable fittings on strategic cruisers. where lasers have worse fitting attributes, amarr ships have better fitting attributes. likewise where hybrids or projectiles have worse fitting attributes, gallente and minmatar ships have better fitting attributes. the ships are balanced to fit their intended weapon system. comparing fitting attributes of turrets without looking at the fitting requirements of the ships they are used on is meaningless.the popular choice in fitting myrmidons is not relevant to the bonuses assigned to a covert ops legion. the problem with the omen was that it was out done by the maller. the omen with a damage bonus had the same damage output as a maller which had an extra turret slot along with a bonus to resistances. the omen was given a 5th turret so that it could fill a distinct roll, by doing something better than the next closest amarr ship. i don't know where you are coming up with the idea that the omen should have it damage bonus removed. amarr ships can have damage bonuses, but generally they require a cap usage bonus first. the exception is the abaddon, which was specificly balanced to be a damage dealer that had major cap problems. while such a balancing approach makes sense for a teir 3 battleship, it does not make sense for a covert ops strategic cruiser.what do you mean \"a 20% loss in effective turrets\"? that statement does not make sense. did you miss a word or two in there some where. where do you get the 20% loss of anything from?"
"i'd prefer a 5% damage bonus but range is at least useful. if it were up to me, i'd remove the 10% cap usage bonus from all amarr ships. range and tank are amarr's strengths, cap usage is their disadvantage. the abaddon is the only amarr ship that really matches their stated design philosophy. the rest are half assed versions that ccp wimped out on. and yeah, throw autocannons on a legion and you have nearly the same range, far superior tracking and about the same damage (and it's selectable). it's like the autocannon punisher/maller/prophecy, all of them need that cap usage bonus changed."
"1.0"
"seriously, they need to get rid of the effing learning skills already."
"the road to hell is paved with micro transactions.i'll just have to dust off my consoles if eve goes that way.that is just not the game i want to play.macro miners are already a pain in the ass why is ccp trying to roll out things that are unbalancing and silly instead of fixing the stuff that needs work now. like lag and macrominers and illegal rmt stuff.i can't believe that ccp can't immediately spot 23/7 macro miners just by simple parsing of playtime logs.if ccp needs a few more bucks to keep the game going right just up the subscription a bit. i'd would happily pay an extra few bucks to keep things going the right direction instead of having rich people buy their way to the top moreso than they already can"
"agreed, this is a step in the wrong direction. supported"
"bump for justice, and for support -the cons list is also important to look at ccp. . ."
"why would 8000 of the 10,000 or so 0.0 players not log in for this?"
"i would be down for this if on the same day they moved to low sec."
"not supported."
"problem: too many people are degrading these great forums by using numerous characters to post in the same thread, skewing arguments or having devil's advocate debates with themselves, much to the chagrin of other participants in the debate. it's nonconstructive and in recent years has become more than just a quaint idiosyncrasy practiced by certain eve e-celebrities. solution: remove the ability to post with more than one character on an account in a single thread.to wit: i post this proposal thread with this character, a faceless alt i've just created. i could then use two other characters on this same account to support the idea or create drama. like a lot of players, i have two accounts. i could theoretically then load this argument by using 6 characters to post supportive arguments, skewing everything.if this proposal were enacted i would have the amount of sockpuppet posting available to me reduced by 67%, promoting by necessity more thoughtful responses to whatever it is i am talking about.tl;dr: you should be able to post with your main, or post with an alt - but not both in the same thread from one account. quality ^, crap, quantity v.thank you."
"people who don't post with their mains need to grow a pair anyway"
"1.0"
"supported, limiting a thread to a single response from a 'character' on any account makes sense and doesn't hurt anyone by suppressing their options to make themselves heard.only possible issues are people who mistakenly post as a character they didn't intend to and 'out' themselves but such things can happen regardless of a requirement like this. if a person is using alts to mask their identity they should put forth the effort to choose the correct one for whatever argument/post/idea/etc they intend to submit."
"your main post with it+1 for 1 per thread."
"+1 but anyway, there is not much people with just one account..."
"i have one account, two characters on it are my \"mains\" in different respects..."
"as an alt, i support this message"
"qft"
"ahh, this fail thread again. always some bitter person who was too thin skinned and was made fun of by someones alt. grow up people./not supported."
"if cromo effect is against it, then it must be a good idea."
"sounds reasonable.poasting w/ alt."
"supported"
"great idea!"
"this would make eve gate useful."
"i thought that was the main reason for evegate, skill queue-modification from the web...i was wrong. make it so, pls."
"again, not very good trolling but very, very funny. the game should be fun, but not fun as defined as how individuals like to play the game, from large scale sov warfare to lowsec roams. no, fun is what mini wants and if you dont want it, youre anti-fun.battles cant be fun if there are lots of people involved. indeed, theyre almost impossible due to jump bridges/logistics ships/titans/meanies who work in teams. the pendulum war, the first or second great wars, the max campaign, the war of southern aggression, the current invasion of the drone regions none of those actually happened, and those people who fly/flew in them didnt enjoy them, at all. in point of fact, not only have none of those actually happened, but theyre pretty much impossible. and jumpclones dont count either, because pilots can not even possibly have staging systems filled with ships, mods and exotic dancers. likewise, alliances cant simply park titans in poss and set up jump chains that way, even if every alliance needed their own titan to bridge in only their own alliance membership. the nc will never, ever have an issue defending its jump bridges. except, of course, for examples like the recent war of southern aggression when not only were jbs incapped, but many were permacamped by bomber gangs that reaped tallies of dozens and dozens of battleships on numerous occasions when bridges ran out of fuel and/or pilots were slow to click jump. but thats impossible, so it never happened. mini needs ccp to help protect him because, without friends, you cant easily stand against a large group of buddies in an mmo. ccp must save him. and mini cant adapt and simply engage in only small-gang combat, because hed like to be able to challenge those large groups of people who have the audacity to work together, and so ccp needs to save him. but, really, its the people who work together and/or attack people who are working together and who take their time in eve into their own hands who want easy mode. its not the guy who cant manage to do that and who wants ccp to save him. nopers. high, ****ing, comedy."
"really... if i wanted easy mode... i would just join your coalition.the point is that it is not fun, as defined by me and as would be defined as you. in all your whine threads to ccp about fixing the lag in larger engagments.heres a newsflash for you. it doesnt matter how much ccp reinforce nodes or works on their servers. your coalition will always recruit more lemmings and dump them into a server so that its at breaking point, simply so that you can win.not so that you can have fun. if you want to confuse the two then thats fine. but you are deluding only yourselves."
"this is relavent to my interests.(i live under a jump bridge and the traffic keeps me up at all hours. )"
"ccp needs a punkbuster for eve"
"please evemail me about a bridge i have for sale.i don't understand what you mean by this."
"there is plenty they could do to greatly hamper macroing without alientating their playerbase.here, i'll lay out a few freebies. some of these are super-easy, very simple fixes, some aren't. but all of them would actively improve the game for human players while strongly nerfing macros.(1) add a heavy deposit to lo-sec courier missions, so that failing them is expensive. this would mean that killing macrohaulers would actually have some effect other than destroying a 300k isk hauler.(2) give us the mining and industrial expansion we've been promised since 2007. make mining an active activity, not a passive one. remove static belts, reduce the proportion of ore-bearing asteroids to 5-10% (so miners have to actually find the good rocks in a belt), and make mining itself a semi-active process. you could do this by providing a pseudo 3-d image of the rock with veins and nodes of minerals. the challenge would be to align and focus the mining beams to hit the high concentrations whilst ignoring the dross. add slow rotation or movement of the rock so that constant adjustment and monitoring is required for peak efficiency. peak potential mining yield would be 5-10x higher than at present, so an active, intelligent miner who efficiently extracts the concentrated ore is strongly rewarded over a dumb macro who will just mine the whole rock at hugely lower efficiency.there could also be the potential to find small nodes of mid-end minerals in hi sec rocks, and high-end minerals in lo-sec rocks, etc. just to add another dimension of complexity to the optimal mining solution.(3) change rats to be far fewer (like 90% less) in number and much more effective. give them remotely realistic fits and upgrade the ai so that it's actually a challenge to kill them (correct size modules,more than 1 damb weapon, will move into their optimal, will use different ammo types, will summon reinforcements, will attempt to escape). increase per-rat rewards accordingly. all elite frigate rats should have tackle. all frigate rats in lo-sec should have tackle. all frigate and cruiser rats in nullsec should have tackle. ratting and missioning should actually be dangerous. not an utterly predictable, utterly safe grind.in short, when eve's pve isn't easily done by macros, macros will not be so prevalent. no doubt it is impossible to completely eradicate macrobots, but there sure is a lot that could be done to make things much harder for them, that would also make the game much more fun to play. eve's pve is literally a joke in the mmo community, and that's just a shame. good, challenging pve isn't \"giving in to the carebears\". it's just making eve a better game."
"it is glaringly obvious when someone is using a macro. it is a terminal disease that plagues highsec, lowsec and nullsec. exterminate!"
"ibt (in before trolls)"
"i approve of this ideaa simple yet effective cosmetic change, good thinking son"
"i think the removal was part of their ui cleanup stuff and they intend to put it back in but, either way, i agree -- this should be usable vs how it is now."
"when i am trying to scan something down, one of the most bothersome things is the fact that i can't see the space that all of my probes are covering, because it's all just boundaries of sphere and nothing changes colors at all.so why not make it so that volumes that are covered by more than one probes put in a different color to make it easier to see?2 could be green, 3 could be yellow, 4 could be purple or something, so long as it doesn't make it harder to see the red dots that one is trying to scan down.maybe those aren't the best colors, but it's just a thought"
"you should have been here for scanning before apoc expansion."
"this! this! a thousand times this!"
"how does it being more difficult before apocrypha make it so that it shouldn't be made even better than it is now? that's doesn't make sense."
"looks liek a cross between a brutix and a proteus, 2 of my top 5 fav ships. i'm in."
"i would buy that ship instantly."
"link this thread to your friends, lets keep that ship alive!its awesome!"
"i mean, im not like srying my eyes out wanting it. it would just had one more aspect of realism to the game."
"can't remember if theres a skill for this or not, but if there isn't, there should be."
"i second de'veldrin's logic."
"i would like to see \"smarter\" npcs which do things like run away. this is only because missions are a little predictable at this time, not because i believe that making npcs smarter will encourage antisocial mission runners to suddenly become more social.there is nothing stopping mission runners from running missions in groups at the moment - done properly you can increase efficiency due to fewer trips back to station to hand in missions, and less time waiting between volleys.there is nothing stopping mission runners running level 3 and 4 missions in assault ships or cruisers for that extra edge-of-the-seat excitement.there is nothing stopping mission runners flying pvp ships into lowsec or nullsec.yet they do none of those things."
"qft.i would love to have mission npcs fly more intelligently. warping off might be a little much, unless they also warped back at some point, but having them, for instance, change damage types, or changing up the \"fits of their ships\" so that there's more unpredicability in the missions would be nice.imagine rr fits in angel extravaganza or blockade."
"wtf?well, anyway, if missions will be more difficult, it's automaticly make them more proffitable, because market prices is higly influenced by carebears. altrough there is more proffitable thing than missions..."
"i played the first 10 rounds of it....so far its a really fun mini game.would be nice to see something that helps the world integrated into eve.just look what sony did with folding on the ps3, biggest donation team on the planet hands down."
"they did. they were called titans. they got nerfed."
"no, and you are stupid if you believe otherwise."
"wear \"csm v\" shirts so we can gush/lush/throw rotten tomatoes.you guys have been there a couple of times already, so presumably you'll be getting to know the local nightlife (not mentioning any names, but a particular pilot from pl should be really familiar with icelanding boozing spots?). announce a particular bar for each night (of the whole time that you folk are there) so we can decide whether to get drunk with csm or ccp or both :)be visible, be accessible, help reykjavik-noobs find their way around geek style - that's all i can think of :)"
"tbh if i'd have voted for you i would be royally ****ed now.thank god i do not tend to vote for drama queens or joke candidates (/pizza ).-> my vote still counts."
"*****discussion phase*****proposal background: a fully player driven economy is a stated goal of ccp. removing npc pos goods, introducing pi, and dropping the mineral basket were bold steps in this direction. continuing to remove limitless quantities of npc goods and providing a more capitalist player driven economy is beneficial to everyone. furthermore, the mechanics to implement this seamlessly already exist in game.proposal: allow players to spend accumulated datacores to create skill books and t1 blueprints. use r&d agents to manufacture injectable skills and blueprints by combining datacores of various racial and technical types to create skill books and t1 bpos.skill book mechanics: skill books would require a combination of datacores relevant to the skill being produced. cost scaling for foundation or lower priced skills--racial frigates for example--would be achieved by each single run producing multiple books. agent standings should play a very small (if any) part in this transaction to allow everyone the ability to commission skill books.blueprint mechanics: commissioning a blueprint would require a combination and quantity of datacores relevant to the blueprint being produced. this would easily scale with the cost of the bpo and again, it would be initiated through a conversation with the r&d agent while possessing the required datacores. agent standings should play a very small (if any) part in this transaction to allow manufactures the ability to buy datacores and commission blueprints.cons: possible increase in t2 prices due to datacore consumption in non-invention processes. offset by below conditions.ccp summary: with the removal of ghost rp accumulation there are now numerous accounts loaded with characters designed to produce massive amounts of rp. to fully leverage these accounts (get them to subscribe consistently) the rp program must be worthwhile. this is a means to further empower active industrialists and the eve economy, while also injecting more consistent subscribers into the playerbase without hurting the new player experience.this is a simple, effective way to expand the industrial aspects of eve and further empower the player base.*****discussion phase*****this idea is open for discussion / debate prior to being posted in the assembly hall. feedback and perspectives are appreciated."
"i have some bad news. they're already planning to expand pi to enable people to make t1 bpos. as for skillbooks, i think ccp is keeping those as an isk sink.personally i hope they make the pi requirements for bpos high enough so that we don't have what happened to pos modules..."
"i recall a dev post about considering this, but no definitive statement, have you any definitive reference?and that is the crux of the matter. the game need isk sinks (and isk faucets). a purely \"player driven\" economy require a very precise balance between isk faucets and isk sinks but removing (or heavily reducing) ratting and mission running as isk faucets would make life almost impossible for new players (or old players not interested in production and trade). i doubt most players will be interested in a game where you need to mine for the first month of your life to get the isk to start r&d research to start skillbook production to finally get your first bs after 6 months of preparation and training a lot of science skills."
