"great, another worthless gallente t2 ship nobody will want to fly. you are aware that sensor damps and hybrids are absolutely terrible, right?"
"no they dont know. i doubt most ccp members even pvp. the other day i saw a topic about what activities devs are doin in eve. mostly were pve<U+FFFD>ng and fw. so my guess is that only a very small % dev/ccp employm actualy flies gallente ships.anyway, i will see what incursion brings. if after patch 3.0 still no announcement is made or any change is visable im closing & changing all my posts from this topic in \"srry my logs show nothing\" as it is a waste of time and pixels past 14 months. its a shame that a good assemblyhall issue gets waved away. **trend continues, who cares about pvp anyway amirite?**"
"supported.getting your insurance payout when you deaded your ship while commiting a capital offense in secure space is fairly ******ed.i don't think i have seen as many big, bad ass, scary looking pirates crying like babies as in this thread.*excuse me but the word ****** is not offensive it is simply the opposite of advanced, or progressive, forward thinking.... backward. that will do, hopefully it isn't *'ed out."
"suicide ganking is a gamble, pure and simple. i totally support it if it stays that way. you wanna stick your wallet out there to nab a thicker one? go for it. but i think insurance makes this risk much less.supported.people will continue to be gank-food, there will always be that idiot hauler, or the numbskull flying a multi-billion ship through hisec without a care in the world. eve is risky, and it isn't safe. ganking is fine...but it needs to be more risky. there shouldn't be a consolation prize for illegal activity. that'd be like customs fining you for having drugs but being able to avoid the fine/sec status drop for losing the drugs. risk = reward, but only if you succeed. if you screw up, ccp shouldn't hold your hand for failing to gank."
"supported."
"why mess with warp initiation at all? why not just make it so that the existing mechanics in the game still function exactly as they do now but eliminate warp acceleration and deceleration with a corresponding change to warp speed. this way it will still take approximately the same time to get from point a to point b but a ship like a frigate will get there long before a battleship where as right now it may still win that race but its nothing close to what it would be considering the difference in warp speed of the two hulls."
"agree with the acceleration speed up and graphic changes.mechanics can be introduced later... but i want the graphic change now!!!"
"@ anubis:you would (almost) instantly be at maximum warp and land at your destination much sooner than in current mechanics. this would lead to you out running your session timer and getting stuck on gates when in transit. i can do it now in an intercepto"
"nonot only no, but no f***ing way. plex is good because it targets isk rmt pirates. don't take this to mean that all rl currency interactions with the eve economy is a good thing.my answer would be cosmetic only but right now the thinking is of using plex for vanity items. i would support cosmetic only if people directly paid cash for items and not with isk or plex."
"the final point you make there is i think the critical one. this bullet time effect (shall we go with calling it spatial distortions? time dilation? something even geekier?) has got to be limited to the system the fight is in. if that means reinforced nodes only, so be it. but i'm sure the minds at ccp could figure out a way to allow the other star systems on a given node to be uneffected by the slowdown, while the system with the battle was slowed. though perhaps not. hurts my head to think about. the priortization of instructions for processing would be insanly difficult to determine.as for the metagaming and button spam - yea. i don't think it's possible to really eliminate that sort of thing. perhaps mitigate it to a degree though."
"they could resolve some of this by making the button non-functional while pressed and since time is slowed down it will be depressed until the server cycles the command. the same thing applies to issuing other commands to keep people from changing their mind mid cycle after issuing a warp command, until the command is accepted by the server the option is greyed out in the menu and overview.all said and done i like it."
"i'm not touching this subject with a 39.5 foot pole.lets look at this from a profit for ccp type of perspective .but this brings up the question of age. i would like to know approximately how many subscribed players are underage and approximately how much more attractive this game would be if it wear m for mature **. i think the lone fact of making it m would be of a minor financial benefit to ccp opening up the integration of a bit more nudity and gore.perversion would make eve attributive to many perverts and we might see an major increase of japanese players (no offense) and many of those people will be playing \"second eve life\" witch , depending on the way ccp handles things can be good or bad. if eve second life heavily depends on market goods and 0.0/wormhole resources, that would enable eve to be 2 separate games in one. i don't know if ccp wants or douse not want that.regardless of that i have no idea what i am talking about right now actually ....anyways this will not happen as a working filter would be much effort and no one would have it on. aka parents see kids looking at inappropriate things, and in particularly if they are americans, they will go mental! ** making it m for mature is close to impossible as you can't just have a youngster play eve and then making it for him illegal, after investing so much time and the parents money."
"heard of futa. googled it anyway. found my assumption was a little off.i hate censorship. if player wants to walk around station nekked, let them. perhaps we could have in-station decency cops or something, like concord. get caught and get fined. perhaps varies by race. as someone said earlier, differences between societies (gallente/amarr).if it can't be done right, don't do it. which means it probably won't get done.but futanari as per the definition? no. i like my girls with the right parts."
"might aswell have started this sentence with \"i'm not a racist but...\"three options for gender is not going to turn eve into /d/."
"im all for this, not due to content but if anything to get rid of the lil annoying kids that play this game, cause im sure we all know that underage people play age restricted games.would be beneficial for society if these people were screwwed up enough not to contribute their genes to humanity.+1 for a method to enforce survival of the fittest/most mentally stable."
"thinking man's game!!! what u think women don't play this game seriously. even though eve is unrated there is enough **** on the net without having it in the game go get a life and a girlfriend!!!!my kids like playing eve with me and if this content was added i believe my family would end our subscriptions and never come back. but i believe ccp has better taste than that."
"silly doggie, you have puppies not kids. seeing as the ops point is to make eve more mature, the natural thing would be to get your puppies to stop playing until they are old enough. i'd like to also point out, that ccp's own statistics have shown, that women don't really play eve, so saying that eve is a thinking man's game is accurate in this case. nudity also doesn't equal ****, but if we are succesful in smoking out the little kiddies( and puppies), who knows what the futare will have in store for us."
"supported!why?because if they put thin in it means the door is wide open for strip clubs and what is a corp lounge without a strip club?"
"what csm think about this idea?"
"right-click on drone (or group), \"repair owner\"no need to lock your own ship, and no possibility of having combat drones shooting yourself etc."
"this would be nice. when i first started i thought the main purpose of repair drones would be to repair yourself."
"supported, nice idea, but a slight worry in the \"how hard would it be to implement this\" department..it would require you to be able to lock yourself, or require some separate system to make it work. so maybe you'd have to be on your own overview. many opportunities for blowing yourself out of the sky exist there.that isn't necessarily bad"
"i shouldnt be a big deal... reuse the return and orbit code, and have a ghost repper fitted and if repair drones are orbiting work out the maths and automatically activate the ghost repper. monitoring for number of drones orbiting and type of shouldnt require too much new code.i was also confused but accepted the fact that you cant use your own drones to repair yourself, just doesnt seem right though..."
"supported~"
"supported"
"i did initially think this is a fairly nice idea.. and i remember when i started using rep drones and wondered why i couldnt rep myself, but tbh it only enforces solo play to an extent. even pairing up with a corpmate means u can have repper drones out and helping you out, and in a game driven by co-operative play, its not exactly a difficult thing to ask!im definitely still on the fence with this, one side of me says it makes sense to be able to do this, the other side of me says its so easy to do already and currently encourages co-operative play."
"supported"
"xing! speedbump."
"lower mass, 125 more base powergrid, and increase the damage bonus from 5% to 7.5% per level and it would be fine."
"back before dominion, the sansha ships were the only faction ships worth using. in dominion, ccp boosted all pirate ships beyond sansha ships and nerfed the phantasm.it makes no sense at all. boost sansha ships (and nerf the dramiel and cynabal)."
"1.0"
"agreed, the phantasm is terribly lack luster. the cynabal is overpowered, the ashimmu is cool as hell (and often underestimated) but the phantasm just smacks of mediocre. the op exaggerates it's lack of performance, it is solidly superior to a rupture. there is no question about that. but it's not any better than a navy omen or really even any different. it's basically a shield tanking navy omen with the same speed and agility as the trimarked version. tracking bonuses aren't a bad thing but they don't match amarr ships generally.i think more appropriate bonuses would be to stick with the standard amarr/caldari bonuses. so something along these lines:amarr cruiser skill: +5% rof per levelcaldari cruiser skill: +5% shield resistance per levela good alternative is +5% damage for caldari cruiser skill so it's an outright gank ship. along with these changes it should have it's mass decreased some , base speed increased (10-20%) and it's drone bay increased to 25m3."
"this. minmatar here and i think we need a nerf. we outclass nearly everything else in terms of speed tracking and dps."
"nice idea=)"
"/me support this thread after dominion all pirate wessels was rebalanced. ccp remove ****ty bonuses and give some awesome stuff.for example 1. vigilant - deimos with better damage and overpowered web . also this ship have better fitting abilities than deimos2, ashimmu - pilgrim with turrets instead drones . good web an tanking abilities . what we have with fantasm and other sansha ships?low pg (succubus\phantasm) , big problems with capacitor and dont have uniqe bonus like other pirate ship . will be nice if bonus to tracking wil changed to something better. like 1. + 5% all shield resistance 2. + 10% to optimal range3. + 5% to rate of fire.also need more capasitor\pg\speed.thnks"
"definitely supported."
"i fly my phantasm anyway, because it is cheaper than a hac. i thought ccp was making the faction ships better than t2 in dominion?"
"2 heat sink iidamage control iilarge shield extender ii2 invulnerability field iimedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 800y-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivewarp disruptor ii3 focused medium pulse laser ii2 medium unstable power fluctuator i3 medium core defence field extender i3 warrior ii'sthis is the best i could do. it isn't bad but i would still rather be in a hurricane.it certainly doesn't inspire the fear it's brothers do.and the succubus could use some love as well/supported"
"[phantasm, phantastic]damage control iiheat sink iiheat sink iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivewarp disruptor iimedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 800invulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iilarge shield extender iiheavy pulse laser ii, multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, multifrequency msmall energy neutralizer iismall energy neutralizer iimedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender ithis ship is awesome idunno what you guys are smoking."
"devs stated on the forums about a week ago that the data core fix is deployed."
"supported~"
"yeah electronic attack ships definitely need to be buffed."
"if your gonna swap cap bonuses on the keres for smth else as a buff then the cap bonuses should be built in (or just buff cap) like the senti or you'll barely be able to run an mwd let alone rsd or wdedit (supported)"
"i just recently moved all my stuff from one area to another and had to cram it all in freight cans. if you're like me i have tons of bpo's and bpc's. the only way to tell the difference is to right click on them,so there i was stuck right clicking on hundreds of bpo's and bpc's to see what was what....when.... we need a way to tell the difference in them. maybe an icon in the top corner like you did for the tech 2 and faction stuff, or maybe a border arond the whole icon. anything would be nice. ~~mer"
"great idea!"
"bump"
"definately would be helpful"
"thats a great idea, its such a pain showing info b4 you use the damn bpo or c."
"great suggestion, bad for contract scammer"
"thx for the supprt guys"
"bump"
"thread where ccp lingorn explains why it wasn't feasible - it may become more so though with the new character nodes & inventory."
"i can't confirm it (although it does sound reasonable) but i was told that a dev said that it actually could be possible now that they changed the inventory number from 32 to 64 bits or whatever it was, freeing up a lot of room that all these extra entries could go in."
"from what i recall of that post the idea is \"considered\" (not jet even at the \"discussed\" stage). so maybe a 1 year before it will get implemented if it will not require too much work and get some backing by the csm. as now it is possible, supported."
"any way to see the difference between the two type would be helpfullif db have a problem with bpo / bpc, maybe cheating like using number or runs or something else may be used ?"
"supported."
"supported!"
"supported."
"supported.i also like the idea of being able to disable said feature on command whenever necessary. that way, we won't have to worry about feeding the lag monster during fleet engagements."
"supported, but needs to be an option. this is almost certainly going to tough on slower, or even normal computers as each target window is effectively a miniature version of an eve window without ui. i'm not computer savvy but that sounds like it could be very graphic intensive.the idea is very cool though and i think it'd be a neat, albeit unnecessary, feature."
"make sansha incursions planned out strategically and not just random events in random systems. an example of this is on day 1 they go for the economy and hit jita, dodixie, rens and what ever the amarr one is. then on day two they hit all the new pilots, invading all the rookie beginning systems, ( this will also blow the minds of new players drawing them into subbing ). then while all the players are saving their plexs in jita that they will lose in the next war dec, the nation will start to invade population centers, grabbing more people without capsuleer intervention which = profit for them. this will also bring in the largest amount of players possible. oh and don't forget to hit all of the high yeild moon systems to keep the alliances busy out in null."
"actually, what'll happen is:1) rookie systems get invaded.2) several hundred 5 day old players will get killed. numerous times.3) rookies will quit.nice strategic ideas, but i think the random incursions are better as it means that corporation can't just camp the market hubs waiting for the sansha to appear and then stop the invasion before it really begins."
"but that's the thing if ccp doesn't make it public, nobody would expect an invasion in jita on day 1."
"you have to keep it realistic too, there is no way sansha's could actualy invade all the trade hubs at once, the empires would massacre the sansha forced if they tried to go for so many high value targets at once. i find it hard to see it happen in the actual world, them invading actual hi-sec space. but yeah its just a game so you can let a few things go, but your idea seems a bit very far stretched (for no apparent gain)"
"kubbar,1,5,26,31,33,35,40,45,53,62,83,85,96,111,118,137,145,156"
"cmdr zander 67, 68, 69, 70 , 71, 72, 73, 74"
"absofrickenlutely."
"forgot to support this oneremove the bpo things on topic, this can be used for lots of things ^^"
"have any of you who have a problem with this actually run the numbers? if so, can you tell me how much isk you would make a year if the development spawned a t2 bpo of your choice in a hanger of your choice?secondly, the currently bpo owners didn't get them for free, it cost them the billions in opportunity cost of datacores when invention came out ... the rp just like the minerals you mine aren't free."
"it is not fair that someone with a lot of rl cash can sell plex, and purchase the t2 bpo. may as well just put them on the market for real dollars.are individuals buying these t2 bpo's or are they being brought for alliances to add to their other isk taps like moon goo?invention includes risk and requires a lot more skills to produce mods than just running off 10 from a t2 bpo.remove them! the best idea i've seen is to give those with the t2 bpo x number of mods as a replacment, possibly based on the last sale price plus 25% or something reasonable. and possibly make them unredeemable so the mods can be moved between stations as another consolation."
"*rofl*really ... most of my friends who actually went for t2 bpos worked for the money with invention or ran moons for a while.you need slightly more skills for invention than producing.it is really amazing how many people whine instead of getting their own piece of the cake."
"what do plex have to do with this? that's a seperate argument altogether, which has nothing to do with t2 bpos in particular.you might as well say hacs should be removed from the game because people can sell plex to buy them, while you cant be bothered to make enough isk to fly anything but t1 cruisers."
"not to mention this whole issue makes shield tanking supercaps even more **** than they would be, seeing how they lose several millions ehp when there's a friendly leviathan around, as opposed to armor ones, where an erebus gives a straight out instant bonus."
"supported.it's time this is fixed."
"please extend the proposal to include boarding ships- (module and skill bonuses)boarding a ship in pos to find it at 30% shield kills response times for my corps playstilealso it's just sad seing my corpmate show up in an armor raven, because a shield raven would be a worse option a few seconds after switching ships"
"csm blows smoke out there ************************************************** some times. this is one of those times.i would however support that we sit down and figure out how long it takes say your lev or whatever to hit full shields, then implement a timer for the erebus and avatar boosts that takes just as long so when the titan jumps in they have to wait 50 minutes or whatever. then their effect triggers. fair is fair.also idk if the avatar's cap buff is instant or like the lev's if its instant i would argue that passive cap recharge can sometimes be more valuable in a rr fleet then passive shield recharge. and by sometimes i mean pretty much always. other then the russians with their drakes it seems everyone and their brother flies armour any more anywaysshould the rag have the timer? it's not effecting hp, but i guess the argument could be made that it would sort of effect ehp as the ship gets smaller and harder to hit so it takes more missiles, rounds, whatever to get the job done.edit: forgot the checkbox"
"not supported.diffrent is good.it also allows me to see if i am getting a bonus fairly easy. the slight missing shield when i join fleet or move around lets me know it's working.also i like the ideaof jumping through a gate and having to wait for all systems to sycronize and be up and running. gameplay wise it is also good as the defence should always hold an ever soslight advantage.i would really hate to see this go and further dumbing down of the game. wy not just make everything the same.we could all fly the same ship with the same stats and engadge under the exact same conditions...we could call the game battle grounds..wow what a great idea."
"diffrent is good, when it's balanced. this is just 1 being worse then the other."
"supported.if armor reps get their effect moved to the beginning of the cycle and armor also gets a magic regeneration feature :)"
"i'll meet you halfway. either shield bonuses apply instantly, or armor bonuses need to be repped up to be applied."
"can shield tanks get an xl extender comparable to the 1600mm plate?can shield tanks get passive full gamut resist modules comparable to the eanm?can shield tanks get equal hp repped/cap spent to armor (xl shield v l armor and l rr shield v l rr armor cap shield v cap armor)?that passive regen is great... for a few cruiser/bc hulls but, in a game where rr > local rep, the larger armor buffers on every other ship easily make up for that.so shields are op, despite all their negatives, because the rep comes at the beginning of the cycle. this is your argument."
"not supported, because imo capitals can move too fast around eve as it is atm.i do however think the current bonuses are crap and support anything more useful."
"and making them faster will somehow make them overpowered or harder to combat?"
"only ships who start furter away from the first jump point need to be in the sansha staging system and only then ones who required a range buff in the first place, the rest of your post was waffling about blobs. my point remains you are asking for a buff to the ability of supercarriers to project power not because they need it but because it sounds like a cool bonus, this is silly."
"funny, every supercap pilot i have talked to seems to like it. being a supercap pilot myself i like it. you dont even seem to own or operate a capital, let alone a supercap. opinion noted that you view this as silly.edit: woops wrong account"
"of course super cap pilots like it, ask a ishkur pilot if he would like the abiltiy to fit a ddd, thats some terrible logic there. also i don't own a supercap but if hypotheticaly i did it would not be on my main."
"so you put forth that giving a supercarrier the proposes ability would be as overpowering as giving the ishkur a doomsday? this isn't my main either :) but i am sure that when you join the might unprovoked aggression supercap fleet it will be with a well trained alt"
"no what i am saying is that supercap pilots may not (let us be honest here and say won't) give you an objective opinion. the reason is important not the amount."
"and a person with zero capital experience whatsoever is able to give an educated objective opinion?"
"i actually like the idea. actually it should only give bonus to supercapitals, since oterwhise a carrier could jump horribly far and jump freighters would gain additional logistical powers. i think programming work won't be any big deal since there are already ships that can influence a whole gang. that capability should be put togehter with a wyvern ressistance bonus and a nyx dps then remove dcu +1 and the ship would be a great sight in any fleet. fly safe"
"ccp won't do it because they care about people's feelings. god forbid someone may rage-quit over being boo'ed off the forum. even than 1 in 10,000 case is still more important to them than learning what the public thinks."
"actually ccp won't do it because it will just lead to trolling and flaming. which is counterproductive to this subforum as a whole"
"dunno, the current mo seems to be troll a thread as much as possible in order to throw off the total post / support count if you want to voice your disapproval.cant see how a not-support option would be worse. in fact, the whole support indicator thing is kinda pointless anyway with the amount of alts on these forums."
"i am supporting not supporting."
"you should instead ask them to add it to the new forums that we're supposedly getting.otherwise i don't see a point, anyone that doesn't support it will just not click \"support\" anyone else obviously doesn't care about issues in eve enough to read the forums."
"at least this way you could tell how much a thread is supported by its actual number of supports as opposed to support/reply ratio"
"people who want to troll are doing it already. the lack of \"thumbs down\" button doesn't stop anybody.the truth is simple - ccp don't give a rat's ass about what you think about other people's ideas."
"i like it. would help a ton with corporations that live out of poses."
"i invested in learning skills, and it nearly caused me to quit the game. i started an alt, and deleted the account because of learning skills. they're awful, a long, boring period of effective character stagnation while you wait to get up to speed.i don't feel cheated for having learning skills removed. i'd rather have a bigger, more vibrant community than a few super smug pilots flying around and congratulating themselves for their long term planning."
"wow, the op is already trolling his own thread.there is not a single valid reason for keeping learning skills. none whatsoever. some trolls have *attempted* to think of a good reason, but they've all fallen to reason and common sense.face it op, you are in the very very small minority who actually wants to keep this atrocious piece of gameplay. it doesn't matter how loud you are nor how many alts you use to agree with yourself, facts are facts. it's a horrible game design and you're a tiny minority who wants to keep it.some player ran his own voting poll to see how many people wanted to keep it verses how many want it gone. last time i checked that poll was 83% in favor of removing it, 17% in favor of keeping it. it is the biggest barrier to new players. if ccp ever intends to grow it's playerbase, learning skills have got to go plain and simple. it was a bad game design that ccp freely admitted was bad and wanted it gone. now it is. accept it or leave. you will be a very small portion of the population who does leave. so small in fact that *maybe* a couple of gms might notice a ten cents decrease in pay.and enough of this \"i suffered so you suffer too\" bullcrap. if i had to walk to school in the snow up hill both ways with no shoes, it doesn't mean future generations are required to as well. that's just stupid."
"hi allfirst of all, great job on getting many nice fixes into incursion 1.0!! :-)here's a couple ideas of mine that i think could make all of our eve experiences even better:1) icons of gsc and station container (possibly others?) are the same. always have to show info or open them to see which it is2) icons of bpc and bpo need to be different3) allow identical bpcs to be stacked4) add column to hangar showing bpc remaining runs5) can't rename containers anywhere but in personal hangar. should be able to do so in cargo, and in corp hangars (pos? ship hangar?)6) remove blocking windows (some popups prevent you to \"do anything else\" before closing the popup. can kill you very fast. examples: auto link -> select item type 7) multiple \"show info\" windows side-by-side. - that's something industrialists do, not combat pilots -- resource usage and lag is a non-issue here. - aware of the \"compare tool\" -- however this should be much easier, and \"compare\" isn't availabe for e.g. blueprints - perhaps add an option in general settings such as \"open info windows separately\"8) hotkey for auto-link item type - or even better: make all items searchable in the market (many many t2 bp's missing)9) show total #of selected items and total volume in a hangar \"status bar\" find out earlier if they'll fit in cargo / courier contract without putting them into a station container first just to check that.10) allow manufacturing to be done from within a station container - they already have a mechanism to not allow their repackaging while they've got log entries in the last x weeks, so just extend that \"lockdown\" when it has active jobs. - would help a lot to organize large manufacturing operations - few alts, 5-10 jobs each, you're spending most of your time moving stuff in and out of containers"
"11) for all kinds of jobs, have the server automatically pick the slot with the lowest waiting time, or a random free one. - waiting for that list of installations to load each time is a huge time sink, and pointless, as you'd never choose any other than the next available one anyway. - can still keep the option to select, but pre-select one for the user12) fix undock-bug. you click abort, it says \"aborting undock\" but still throws you into space. sometimes have to click abort twice.13) repair items located in corp hangar, and in containers14) add the ability to clear waypoints / destination without opening the map15) add a \"items placed by me\" into a container are locked / unlocked global setting. - some need to be able to do it on a per-container basis - for others it's ultra-annoying having to do it with every alt, for every container - or perhaps a \"free for all\" flag that a ceo / director can set on a container, that ignores the locked/unlocked setting for everyone16) add option to \"unload container cargo to hangar\" (personal / corp) when right-clicking your ship in a station - empties all containers, but leaves containers in cargo bay - haulers usually stuff their cargo with containers to maximize capacity - very annoying and unnecessary to fill & empty each container individually17) new type of container, with user-defined capacity - also solves the problem of unloading countless containers - a tech2 container perhaps, that you can configure to have a certain size ? - when built, they have 100'000m3, and can be configured to be smaller - still give bonus to hold / volume proportionally to size, such as existing containers - when ship is blown up, container is always dropped with its \"original\" volume (100'000m3) - same skill could apply here, as mentoned in # 1818) new type of container, with a impenetrable containment field - a tech2 container perhaps, whose contents cannot be scanned - make them expensive to prevent each and everyone using them - perhaps introduce a new, long to train, skill needed to be able to open them. prereq: racial industrial v for instance19) allow mining crystals to be repaired in space, using nanite paste - perhaps use a different kind of paste - provides additional use of paste for a huge part of eve population that don't use it at all yet20) be able to create your own corp hangar divisions21) remove the forum timer for old characters. they won't spam most likely (guess when i added this one) :-)"
"supported with this addition:22) option to turn off or dim the sun and nebulae"
"u need some serious training on ninja scanning not even a pirate but i can scan a ship in one scan roflmao we do it all the time in our wh and train our new player to do it in a day"
"hahaha a pirate that can't beat a carebear, ha, epic fail!"
"hot on the heels of my other fantastic suggestion which garnered zero interest, i give you my next great idea - the sisters of eve ships.using a mixture of amarr and gallente technology, these would be logistics based ships with a unique twist - their logistic support comes in the form of a large bonus to maintenance drones. this would give the soe ships an advantage in the form of a remote repair system that cannot be neuted or ecm jammed. it would also create a nice bridging gap between the t1 logisitics cruisers such as the augoror and the full blown t2 logisitics ships.the large drone bay would grant space for dps drones but i see the soe faction as being almost exclusively support based, with the amarr bonus being tailored towards armour resistances and the gallente bonus being geared towards either drone bay size or drone speed and hp.thoughts?"
"supported because more faction things is better."
"gallente already gives bonus to three of the five pirate faction ships. minmatar also gives bonus to 3/5. if another faction dual-bonus set of ships are coming out, they should be caldari/amarr as those two races only give bonuses to two pirate factions each right now.it would be nice to have sister's ships eventually. they don't seem like the type to make weapons platforms of any type though."
"agreed. if they have agents that give lp, then you should be able to redeem them somehow."
"can someone take a screenshot or list a empire system that has nebulae? i have no clue what you are talking about in game (i know what they are) unless you mean those random gas clouds that missions have sometimes like the level three mission where you have to go kill the pirate repair center thing. and those don't seem bright as much as overly sparkly."
"sun too bright. need giant sunglasses for spaceships!"
"\"our menus will blot out the sun!\"\"then we will pod in the shade!\""
"great idea, but i think it needs to not apply to suns but \"bloom\" effects. this issue can occur in some missions where the scenery (like a gas cloud or what looks like a warp tunnel or some such) can have a glare effecting the ability to view the mission easily. many other games have an option that reduces glare, so this isn't an unheard of issue.i'm all for it as an option."
"the blockade was massive, but not impenetrable. a lone assault frigate managed to slip through and dock at the station.minutes later, the strange ship's pilot strode into the captain's office. the scarred warrior wore a leather coat, a long sneer, and dirty boots that he kicked up onto the desk. \"i hear you got a job that needs doin',\" he said, casually lighting a cigarette. \"i might be the one to do it.\"\"excellent,\" said the captain. \"it's lunchtime, and i need you fetch my sandwich.\" the scenario above is silly, but surprisingly common. the way missions are currently assigned ranges from mildly frustrating to ridiculous, and defeats its own purpose.why mission running is importantmission running isn't important because it's incredibly easy and a good way to make money. mission running isn't important because it actually gives drone pilots something to do. mission running isn't even important as a way to keep players grinding ala other mmos. those should all be addressed elsewhere. but mission running is important, because of players like me - the casual ones. i want action within 5 minutes of logging in. i think it's awesome that players can spend hours hunting each other in the remote asteroid fields of uncharted space, and i've tried it on a couple of occasions, but generally i don't have time. so i run missions. fast action. fun gameplay. takes an hour or less. boo-yeah! missions are the heart of casual eve, so for casual players, it's very important to get them right.perhaps you're a hardcore capsuleer who doesn't care about the care-bears. given that you're reading the csm forums, there's a good chance of that. perhaps you look upon us with disdain. i challenge you to open your mind - casual players are important, even to you. here's why:we contribute to the economy. we buy the goods you get, and sell some you need. we contribute to the real eve economy. do you like the cool features ccp makes available? the new expansions? those take actual dollars and euros and rubles and whatnot. there are a lot of casual eve players, which means a lot of money going to ccp, which means eve will continue to grow and thrive. we add to your enjoyment of the game, because we're part of the community, financial support for our corps, and we're fun to blow up. some of you have personally blown me up, and it seemed like you had fun. so we matter. you don't want us all to up and leave. and that's why missions are important.what's wrong with mission assignmentsas i said above, i see the primary purpose for missions is getting casual players into the action as fast as possible, however they define action. i know there are other purposes, such as creating hubs where many players hang out around good agents. but too often, mission assignments actually become a deterrent from playing. it's fairly common that i log in, decline an outstanding offer, and get another that is:factional (i.e. killing amarr or minmitar), and as a handsome swashbuckling mercenary i maintain relations with all factionsmining, and i don't mine orcourier, and i don't have a huge industrial at this stationso my choices are: lose standing with another faction (if a factional mission), spend an hour flying industrials around space (if a courier mission), lose standing with my own agent if i decline again, or log. i usually log. and i define that as a failure of the mission system.do you see what it did? the system is in place to let me play quickly, but instead it actually gave me a few bad choices, and then asked that i come back in four hours. on my schedule, that means \"tomorrow\" if i'm lucky.i'd like to see mission running tweaked in a manner that makes missions fit the purpose of fast, fun engagement better, even at the expense of profitability."
"balancing the issuesof course, as such a huge part of the game, changing missions is tough. and it cant be ignored that missions are very, very profitable with low risk if you know what youre doing. i want to be clear again: i am not wrangling for a faster way to make isk. i am looking for ways to emphasize choice and fun in the way missions are assigned, instead of grinding faction reputation and money. some of the issues that need balancing include:faction and corporate reputation. your reputation is your ability to get missions, not just a reward for doing them. its more valuable than money, and players are currently asked to sacrifice it too often.play styles. some players may like the variety that missions offer. some focus on one or two key mission types. some want to belong to a faction, some want to be on good terms with all. we shouldnt be penalized for playing our own wayspecial storyline missions. it's excruciating when, after finally flying 16 combat missions, my storyline mission is an offer to buy some ombre.isk. stated above, missions are very lucrative. changes shouldnt make them more so.proposed solutionsso that being said, i have a number of ideas on ways that the system can be improved. some of these contradict each other, so not all could be implemented. thats because i dont know the solution, i just want to help find a solution. your feedback and alternate ideas are welcome.instead of losing reputation for declining more than 1 mission every four hours, let the user decline as many as they want, and reduce the payout and loyalty rewards of their next mission from the agent each time they do so. so if you decline 1 mission, you get slightly less rewards when you take the next one. if you decline 9 missions in a row, you may only get a small fraction of its reward. let players spend loyalty to skip missions  the cost could be 25% to 50% of the missions loyalty reward. if you have no loyalty with a faction/corporation, then declining a mission beyond the first is a faction penalty as normal.let the user choose a mission type, assuming its available from that agent, rather than leaving it up to chance. i.e. if i visit a command agent, i can tell him i want a combat mission or a trade mission, and then get a random mission from that category. even better would be letting me say i want a short or long mission, for those times when i want to play but dont have an hour for angel extravaganza.base storyline mission assignments on the types of missions a user has been running in the 16 preceding the storyline mission. so if the user did 14 mining missions of his last 16 missions, than the resulting storyline mission would have a 90% chance to be mining or trade.remove all penalties whatsoever for declining a faction-killing mission. increase faction and corporation reputation bonuses for completing them.scale bounties more. what if bounties on pirates were 50% higher than now in 0.0, exactly normal in .5 space, and 50% lower in 1.0? or some other percentage? it would certainly lessen the economic impact of letting players choose their missions. (and probably muck with other things.) you could make scaling apply less to cruisers and not at all to frigates, to help new players and keep level 1 missions from being even more boring.these are just some suggestions. i welcome others, and feedback on these. the point is, to keep eve engaging and fun without consuming three hours in a sitting, casual players need more ability to choose our experience.because im an elite gun for hire, an ex-special forces operative with years of combat experience and more pirate kills than you can count. and im sick of being sent out to pick up some smokes.thanks for reading. fly safe. i know i do. - jaizak aripaik"
"supported."
"ideas good, but not 100% sure.mission running does not need any more nerfs on the isk per hour. but i would like to decline all drone/faction/lowsec missions without standing penalty."
"seems to me like you could resolve all your issues without changing anything in the game.for one, if you are running combat missions and getting mining and courier missions you are using the wrong type of agent. command and security type agents will give you combat missions virtually every time while a human resources agent is likely to have you bored to tears mining and transporting crap.as for faction based missions they are a necessary evil but there is a perfectly good way around them. use a different agent. there are plenty of places in eve where you can have multiple level 4 agents in the same solar system and many more places where you can find several within two jumps. working from an area such as this adds flexibility to your mission running that allows you to skip faction and even drone missions if done correctly. though it might require high standing with multiple corporations or a faction those standings also have benefits in allowing you access to r&d agents and cloning services.for your proposal i would be concerned that an already abused side effect of existing mechanics would simply be abused that much more. farming missions is made more difficult by the fact that the farmer has to get a mission worth farming and though either lowered rewards, lp cost, or both would reduce the income of farmers the net gain would increase substantially since the vast majority of their income is derived from farming the mission every day until it expires and not lp and agent rewards. throw boting into this and you have a recipe for disaster as the bots farm ae's or something like that all day every day 23/7."
"i can see issues here, but i really like this idea."
"i actually have done this in the past. the thing is that this restricts my choices, which is contrary to eve's sandbox philosophy. i like the idea of flying for roden shipyards, for example. they don't have any such agents or hubs. granted, i could go to the places that are more popular with other people, but this reduces my freedom, increases my exposure to ninja looters and other unpleasant aspects of missioning near hubs, and increases my pain-in-the-butt logistical time spent flying around talking to people to see if they have good work for me. using that work around, 95% of the agents in the galaxy can be classified as not-so-hot for missioning. i'm sure that's not ccp's intent.i agree that abuse could be an issue, but i don't believe in making the game mechanics substantially less fun in order to deter tsa abusers. the farmer has access to the work-arounds you already mentioned anyway. gameplay should be made as fun as possible, and then measures should be taken to throttle abuse. there may be ways to avoid the abuse - perhaps agents will only give so many missions a day, so that you can play for a while the way you want on entering, but you can't farm the agent indefinitely. the cap could be isk based, so that newbies could build as much as they wanted doing level 1s and 2's, but a few level 4's would cap you out for the day. or something else. again, i recognize that abuse has to be considered, but it's not an excuse for the current mission assignment system, which is very poor.thanks for the feedback!- jaizak"
"would support a large library of animations for characters.but what would also be awesome is if some of the editorial options are also give to the players. :d.."
"designing our own outfits and putting them on sale in a station shop you open would be nice :)"
"supporting easier cybersex"
"yep, that would be real customization - not only the looks, but the behaviour of the avatars...ccp should really think about the concept of transfering some of the content creation to the play base. this combined with better video recording options could bring some quite good community-created movies!the technology is so light to the cpu that one i7 cpu core could animate 100 human characters for 2ms. as you could see from the videos, the characters movements are much more realistic and interactive than anything else, apart from some hq cinematic trailers..."
"i just want to be able to flip the bird. from my memory of reading a blog many moons ago about some social scientists ccp had been (are?) tapping to build in automated expressions, i assume they have a lot of animations already made. if not, this isn't a bad idea."
"using pre-baked animations for custom characters created by the players is far away from \"state-of-the-art\" ccp cannot possibly have pre-baked animations that are fine-tuned for all possible combinations of skeleton-structures, muscle masses, weights, heights etc.the new character creator will give huge customization capabilities, but animating reallisticly all those different & unique characters is not possible...some characters will behave & look much better than others, or ccp will severely limit the customization capabilities...unless, you have a technology that takes into consideration all of the above character properties and adjusts the animations in real-time. i am not speculating about the capabilities of ikinema - i've witnessed the prototype characters for our own ps3 title due in late 2011...some expamples: you've got drunk? you've got wounded? stoned? tired? the terain is not even? you've been pushed hard and loose balance? everything could be accounted easily by the algorithm much faster than real-time i just can't come up with better way to attract ccp's attention to this opportunity - i believe that ccp is pretty open to novel technology - they've signed some very intresting middleware deals, which will see the light of day in dust 514 and incarna. why not make it really state-of-the-art, while saving time, effort and resources?give it a look, ccp, or the csm could give it a look"
"supported, looks good. though as we don't know what stage incarna is at we don't know if it would be realistic for them to attempt to intergate any new tech into it (unless i've missed a devblog somewhere?)."
"if we can see a sumersaulting horse in a space station because of this tool, i heartily support it because that was pure win."
"i think these would be a good idea, if you can increase your ecm strength with rigs then you should be able to increase your sensor strength with rigs."
"as part of a revision of ecm/eccm then sure.don't fall into the trap of percentages though, makes for ugly things when combined with high base numbers and/or multiple eccm modules, much better to have them add raw values to sensors.we don't want an eve where every ship can be made immune to probes after all example:t1 rig: +4 sensor strength.t2 rig: +6 sensor strength.should in theory benefit the smaller ships (sub-bc) the most due to their generally lower slot count, but also has huge potential on larger hulls due to being amplified by eccm modules."
"i'd really like to see a full list of all issues the csm have completed.this would also hopefully make the role of the csm more apparent; what can they actually accomplish, and what is just insane unrealistic ideas?things that should be on the list (in different categories):- completed issues (issues, that ccp have finished working on and are deployed on tq)- issues that are wip or ccp are looking into- issues that have been rejected by ccpissues should be relatively short, ie as few words as possible ('make rockets viable in pvp').trying to explain to others what the csm is doing (and what it's good for) is *very* hard, when you need to read 500 wall-of-text pdf's just to have an idea of what's going on.tldr; make a list of everything the csm have done, so they can easily prove they're not a complete waste of time"
"supported :)"
"the csm has just updated there main page with the pages you request made easier to access but as you will find out they are not as complete as you might want them to be. the last meeting the csm had rought up this fact. it is currently a work in process."
"t2 short range gun ammos have had there ship penalties removed.t2 missiles were left out of the buff why ???ccp dont seem to consider missiles as being a primary weapons system.if they did then they would always get balanced at the same time as guns.at the moment only short range ammo has been looked at.so rage/fury should have there sig bloom characteristics removed."
"smotftw"
"missiles are only used for shooting structures and npcs. honestly, i think ccp are trying to convince people to use guns more and missiles less (based on the dev blog that said missiles create weird lag problems that guns don't), at least until they can fix missiles."
"i dont understand why they didnt fix them in this round."
"let me start out by saying, i do not own a capital ship nor do i plan on buying or flying one for awhile.i would like to propose a way to reintroduce capital ships into high sec and not just into 0.5your presence in high sec would depend on 2 things; security status and faction status.in order to bring a capital ship into a specific high sec system, you must first have sufficient faction standing for whatever faction controls that space. this would follow on similar lines as pos's do currently a standing of 5.0 for 0.5 systems, standing of 6.0 for 0.6 systems, etc.in order to bring a capital ship into high sec at all would require a sec status of 1.0 for 0.5 systems, 2.0 for 0.6 systems, 3.0 for 0.7 systems, 0.4 for 0.8 systems, and 5.0 for 0.9 systems. no capitals in 1.0, after all these are ultra security systems.this system would hinder mass migrations of people into high sec in capital ships. people in capital ships would be restricted as to where they go, and therefore it would still be difficult for use of capital ships in highsec warfare but not entirely impossible. lets remember, in order to enter high sec you need to first have a sec status of at least 1.0, then you at a minimum would need a faction standing of at least 5.0 for the system itself. all in all i think this is a fairly decent start"
"the only question i would have is \"why?\"besides that, your system sounds very good and i think the pos system has worked well too. it certainly makes owning a capital in hisec more difficult for some, although people like pirates or mercenaries may find this unfair (i neither support nor hate pirates, just saying don't forget they pay for this game too).this does open up an interesting option for pve as well though, in the point that missions could be developed for capitals in hisec, as well as tougher exploration sites and so on. my only other issue with this idea is lag. barring 1.0 systems is a good step, particularly in order to keep trade hubs clear of these monsters. however some hubs aren't 1.0 systems and could suffer heavily from having warring corps post capitals outside hubs, fighters and all.other than that, dreads in hisec would add a new element to taking down pos's in wardecs, but that also makes high security less...well...secure. it's a touchy topic, but i'm for exploring the possibilities. don't forget that you don't necessarily have to allow all capitals, maybe just dreads and carriers, not supers-cs and titans."
"yes what high sec needs is neutral triage carrier alts"
"yea i wouldn't think super caps belong in high sec. this was really a way to get dreads into high sec to bash at those pos towers, it would make high sec wars more interesting and deadlier. carriers i really dont know, but if dreads are allowed its only fair i think to allow carriers too.i guess i meant the security status as a reward for players that can be trusted to behave in high sec. afterall would concord really let pirates into high sec with capitals?"
"what does a neutral triage alt have to do with pirates?"
"actually i did find a problem with this...small corporations.as it stands, fending off a fleet of battleships is not easy, but doable. when you add capital ships to the mix, you easily knock out half of the small corps and pos's capable of defending. capitals are immensely expensive, hard to produce, and skill intensive. building a bs fleet isn't.i'm not saying that a little bit of bullying is bad...we have that already after all and it goes just fine. however alliances could seriously disrupt small-scale operations in hisec space. where hiring mercs now is viable, how many of these corps could afford hiring mercs with capitals? this is mostly a balancing issue and, as i said earlier, it kinda makes high security less secure.(of course you could go with the cure all: make everything nullsec. fixed!)"
"why not do something like a special drone with special skills that have to be trained to do this. didn't they already do something like that then decide it was a bad idea and take them out"
"go further,towers offline for more then 30 days"
"do you really intend to base an argument on the premise of t3 boosted and/or faction fitted recons?without the alt or the fat wallet you are left with a much, much shorter range of operation .. so short in fact that most are in range of cruiser weapons.ecm differs by the way it and its \"counter\" works and the range at which it works. all other forms of ewar have counters that provide predictable results (mwd/ab, te/tc, etc). counters that also provide benefits when not performing their 'role'.even without those modules you still have a lot of options when hit with non-ecm modules such as navigating to minimize range/transversal, capwarfare/attack/navigation to mitigate tackle, etc.give me a module that i can actually use as a counter to ecm, similar to those that exist for all other ewar systems and i for one will shut the hell up .. until then i shall gladly point out the fact that the ecm system is as broken as a deregulated financial system.ps: neuts on curse are not ewar! why the hell do people insist on propagating that fallacy?it is the ability to use weak-bs neuts on a cruiser hull at slightly longer range, nothing more."
"you are such a dumdum...neuts on a curse is not an ewar.... omgbtw show me how can i counter tracking disruptors."
"tracking enhancer & tracking computer."
"kindergarten is thatta'way. common courtesy never hurt anyone.td's are countered using either low-/midslot modules or rigs and you can zero transveral or reduce range by manoeuvring.damps are countered by using either low-/midslot modules or rigs and range dampening can be mitigated by manoeuvring.webs are countered by using either low-/midslot modules or rigs and can be rendered useless by range/proximity and counter-webbing.tp's are meh. period. severely gimped except in specific scenarios points are countered by using lowslot modules or manoeuvring.the only real benefit to using a curse over a neuting bs is mobility and range. the actual neuting power is about on par with that of a bs. if you want to cap out a carrier you are way better off using a dominix, apoc etc. than a curse .. more neuting from better cap plus far better ehp.neuting curse has no real life outside the solo/small-gang arena as they tend to blow up rather quickly as numbers/sizes go up .. same applies to all ewar platforms, although ecm platforms become moot a little later than the rest.but by all means, call it ewar if it makes you feel better about the brokenness of ecm (and ewar in general)."
"missiles"
"no. everyone's always complaining that caldari sucks in pvp and now everyone is saying that ecm which caldari happens to specialize in is too much. so, now caldari does have something good to bring in pvp and now you want to nerf it? if you got sensor dampened and you're fighting at range, you'd still lose all lock unless you got into range, that is if you can get into range. i say no to nerfing ecm.p.s. i'm caldarian and i'm proud."
"if you take away the total lock out of ecm then you also need to take away the neut's ability to completely 0 the cap of a ship to keep from doing anything but slow boating to it's death. my main flies three races though bc and two through bs, and nerfing ecm to allow target to still lock 1 target while still allowing neut ships to completely shut down a ship would be unfair to those who fly caldari ecm boats and give neut ships an unfair advantage over all other forms of e-war."
"i would love to support this as i cannot stand the opness of ecm in small gang/solo situations, but... this all just feels waaay too complicated and clumsy (sorry ). if a jammed target can still target one ship, then ecm is near useless in small gang situations, the jammed player is barely even hindered, it feels like 1 extreme to the other. and as for the compensatory buffs to the affected ships, it feels like you just thrown everything but the kitchen sink at them to keep ecm users happy.i feel that a better solution should be inherently simpler, something like adjusting sensor strength and ecm dice rolls until we get a balance where almost no ship is ever permajammed rather a falcon using a full rack of jammers will jam frig hulls 90% of the time to bs hulls 50% of the time and so on rather than the permajamming no fun pile of crap we have now."
"i don't fly all the recons, just falcon/rook and curse. my experience with the others is based on what i hear in fleet, what i have experienced happen to me, and the specs i've been told when i had been a fc. confident these aren't numbers based on gang bonuses. as far as faction fit. well, yeah, on a 100m isk, paper tanked, single purpose ship that only survives because it is too far away for people to effectively shoot it, it would be silly not to drop 20m and put a faction disruptor on it.if you are in a recon, within range of \"cruiser\" weapons you are already dead. personal experience.i fly logi a lot. fleet logi fits universally have an eccm module on them because you don't want that falcon jamming you from a distance and breaking up the logi chain. personal experience, rare that they can get a ninja long range jam on a properly fit logi (eccm). they have to get within range of the fleet to actually successfully jam you... then they are dead (or your fleet is disorganized and about to die).a \"slightly longer range\" - are you kidding? a t2 heavy neut reaches 25.2km with lvl 5 skills on a bs. on a curse (t2 heavy neut + all lvl 5 skills) it has a 75.6km range. that's three times the range. on a bs, it will drain 600 cap in a single hit. on a curse, it will drain 1200 cap in a single hit. to put that in perspective, the zealot (highest base cap for a cruiser hull) only has 1500 base cap. any cruiser hull with an mwd will be drained if hit by a heavy neut curse. this with a t2 neut. again, logic dictates you put a faction one on as such a ship doesn't survive in range of guns.this is what i'm getting at. people really don't seem to realize how amazingly powerful all the recons are because they usually die instantly after they get attacked by any of them except the ecm boats."
"i propose adding 4/10 exploration complexes to minmatar and amarr/sansha high/low sec. i know dark blood high/low sec has a 4/10 but that's only less than half of amarr space and still its such a vast area is very rare to even find one. currently there is no 4/10 in the regions of domain, tash murkon, devoid, derelik and in no regions in minmatar space which sucks for them, forces them to go to caldari or gallente space to find the \"gurista scout outpost\" or a \"phi-outpost\"i really enjoy exploration and use it as my main way to earn isk for pew pew but since i've moved to amarr space i find it very hard to make the isk i was making in gallente space. even the low sec 6/10's never give me anything really great. done about 17 of them now and mostly a-type energized plates and phantasm blueprints. which for how rare they are and time it takes to do them is meh, most the time i get nothing. so i really feel amarr exploration could use some love in the high/low sec department with more 4/10's to give you more of a chance to find something of worth. same also goes for minmatar exploration to.basically just looking for a way for all players who explore to be able to compete with at least gallente and caldari exploration in amarr and minmatar. i know some will flame and say i just want to make more isk but i've been exploring for years and have a very good understanding of the average isk you can pull out of high/low sec exploration in various regions no matter if your having a bad streak or a good streak and i hope you can trust that. anyway hope my idea makes it hehe."
"when using the contract view to search for blueprints it would be great if bpcs and bpos would visually differ - so you can sort out all the \"creative\" offers from the nice guys trying to sell bpcs for bpo-prices. i propose to add a small symbol to the icon of bpcs similar to modules (t2, faction, ...)"
"please do this, i know when you sort by type the bpo is normally the first of that type its still annoying to look at a hanger of caracals and blackbirds and not be sure which is the bpo."
"thread where ccp lingorn explains why it wasn't feasible - it may become more so though with the new character nodes & inventory."
"how about this as a uncloaking device??a hi-slot module that would go on only recon or black op ships that when activated would uncloak any ship within a base range of 10km of ship (increasing it's range with skill bonus to a max of say 30km), similar to the module that concord has but not going system wide. this would create a way for fleets to defend against a close range warp in for attack, but not take the advantage completely away from using covert op ships in pvp just make ppl think more about how they use them."
"let me be the first to assure you that this has never been suggested before. ever."
"well not in the last 20 minutes anyway."
"i, too, would like a module which granted me an automatic kill against blockade runners and covert ops when gatecamping lowsec."
"cloaks are balanced by the fact that a cloaked ship cannot target or harm anyone for the duration they are cloaked. they are fine, and need absolutely no changes whatsoever. there are other, far more pressing areas the devs should be focusing on. not supported."
"oh look, it's this thread again."
"i so want to go tell god this. \"hey, just gimme invis, ok? you can even make it so i can't touch anyone, as long as i can use my cameraphone!\" by that train of logic, it should work.that being said, i'd rather have cloaking with some issues than pointless cloaking because of poorly implemented 'decloaking' modules."
"depends on the changemaybe all timers should be variable depending on ship class (self destruct has been discussed a lot) so extend that to agression, gcf and self-destructso for example a frigate would get 1 minute agression and a carrier would get 10 minutes, and a random composed fleet of 30+ can easily take down a carrier in 10 minutes, also that's enough time to get some reinforcements in.so fieldng a neutral rr carrier after such changes would be a great risk, thus balancing the great advantage you get from it"
"problem would be that capitals would become ridiculously common with the amount of easy isk flowing in high sec, they would become the go to ship for pretty much everyone for high sec wars. to the point where they would make other ships largely useless."
"im all for letting cap ships back into high sec (no super caps tho). but make it standings based. you cant light a cyno unless you have a reasonably high security status, and then you cant bring the actual ship into the new system unless you have a very high standing with the particular faction which owns the system. seriously i don't know why this wasn't done before. this to me seems pretty straight forward and encourages people to watch what they do.edit - in fact i think i will make a new prop later tonight based on that reasoning...prepare to be bored!"
"grief wars (ie. 99% of all high-sec wars). concord doesn't get involved so represent a flawed argument.as said by other, it is bad enough with the neutral remote ***gotry taking place .. leet high-sec dockmonkey pvp'ers should not have capitals at their disposal as well.allow capitals in highsec for transit purposes only. - upon entering highsec all modules offline and drones refuse to launch. can not be rectified while under concord disruption. hope you have a station mid-jump point planned on the other side of high-sec to online all your crap."
"i wouldn't mind it with a few changes. removing the abilty for a cap to fit any type of mining lazor so i dont have to share my belt with one. blocking the release of fighter drones reducing the number of drones in a high sec system by 10 in 1.0 and -1 per .increasing the aggro time from 1 minute to 20. so station gamers who think they are super because they tank the crap out of their ship dont bore people to death. 20 minutes is enough time to bring in the troops. i guess making mission gates refuse to let carriers in would also be on there so the forever carebear has to remain with his crappy golem."
"no for four reasons.1. running missions in an iskur with fighters assigned.2. moar moros station games3. neutral rr triage carriers in high sec wars4. cynos in high sec make jump freighters totally over poweredi know changes could be made to the carriers to prevent these things from happening, but my argument is that changes have been made, they don't allow cynos or capitals in high sec."
"when doing several missions at once (e.g. cosmos) it would be great to see in one view what missions are completed and what are still to do. please add a new status \"completed\" for missions in the journal (mission overview).btw: this idea was already proposed a long time idea ..."
"buying sp would ruin the game in my opinion. but then again i'm at a point in the game i pay for 2 accounts with isk not real money"
"the new resizable window feature and adjustment of the camera focus is awesome, there is one glaring issue with it however.the ship status display is still centered on the window itself rather than moving with the camera.i propose that this essential part of the ui either be locked to the camera's center or given a handle so that its horizontal position can be adjusted manually.having the status of your ship obscured by the bezel between your monitors is far from an ideal situation."
"am i missing something? you can already drag it horizontally..."
"yes, you can drag it left/right by left-clicking the capacitor display."
"yeah i realise that now. o\ ignore this post please."
"also see that slider at the bottom of the window size box in the options dialog."
"i would like to be able to use the igb for creating contracts between corp members. each corp member has 500 free contracts, and this should be useful for something. as it stands the contract system and igb are barely workable and kind of a pita in this regard. the following are a list of features i would like to see, to implement truly useful inter-corp trade. some of these things are already mentioned on the javascript wishlist and contract api wiki pages, but i collect them all here for discussion of this particular application.drag and drop of items on the igb: this should call the relevant javascript ondrop handler, passing the typeid's, itemid's and quantity. this enables contract creation, appraisal of items, and much more.wtb contracts should split stacks. currently stacks have to be split manually. if you're buying a pile of minerals or salvage, this is an unnecessary pita.wtb contracts, accepted for the corp, should take items from the corp hangar. currently one has to drag items to one's personal hangar before accepting a contract \"for the corp\" -- only the isk is transferred using the corp wallet, not items.create a corp role for handling contracts. e.g. a member with the \"contract manager\" role should be able to only accept and create contracts from an assigned corp hangar, but should not be able to transfer isk or items from the corp (except using a contract).self-acceptance of contracts: if a player creates a contract to his corp, he should be able to accept his own contract on behalf of his corp. currently he cannot.creation of contracts using the igb: a ccpeve.createcontract method should allow me to specify everything in a contract, and show the player the completed contract on the final screen for review. this allows the creation of \"standardized\" contracts for the corp, and prices to be calculated by javascript in a contract if a member drops items on the igb.api access to contracts. this is very important so industrialists know what they've bought and how much they've paid for it. furthermore, there exists the ccpeve.showcontract method which takes a contractid, but there is no way, in-game or out, to obtain a contractid, making that method totally useless.loans contracts: we want to loan isk or ships for collateral (ships). this is opposite to the old loan contract (now removed) which loaned items for isk. players may want to borrow isk to handle the collateral on a courier contract, and put up a ship as collateral. or, they may want to \"check-out\" a corp ship (e.g. hulk) putting up as collateral a different ship (e.g. battleship).courier contract targets: we want to have a courier contract with a target player or corp. that is, player x delivers a package to player y, which gets transported by player z. e.g. an industrialist delivering goods to a trade member. when the transport portion is completed by z, the contract should become an item exchange contract in the target system to player y, with the isk going to player x, minus the payment to z. the existing contracts only allow you to deliver stuff to yourself.wtb \"order\" contract type: this is for players placing an \"order\" for an item. because manufacturing takes time, it is necessary for this contract type to be \"accepted\" and held open while manufacturing is in progress. calculation of prices can be done by a webapp with the above other features. note it would be very useful to be able to order blueprint copies as well, which is impossible currently.i hope you find this interesting. if a dev wishes to contact me, i'd be happy to show you the existing webapp i've written, and explain how our corp commerce works. contact me via evemail."
"so if i read the op right, its calling for the sandbox of eve to be so strictly regulated that players can't band together toward a common goal.i don't even know what that is, as both communism and capitalism disagree with that idea.i do wish the barrier to entry to self owned 0.0 wasn't so high, but regulation on this should be a player based thing, just like the players took care of the bob situation."
"oh the tyranny! some people work harder and are better at making friends than you and so now you need a change to the game to fix it!"
"i can't say if there's a solution, but it'd be nice if the csm discussed the original design intent of 0.0 space with ccp, compared to what we have now.it would be very nice to have some ccp feedback on what \"0.0 space is supposed to be\"."
"im pretty sure the performance decrease is on client side and shouldnt effect the server... but then again if they add the option to disable it... u can turn it on when your casually playing and then you can turn it off when theres a large scale fleet battle"
"supported~"
"pretty much this. also, bring back the old cyno."
"some environmental effects might work. the ugliest one i've come up with is where warping and gates don't work quite so accurately anymore.1000 ships in a system starts it. any entry into the system randomly appears up to 200km from it's destination. if you warp to a spot, you will randomly arrive within 200km of the destination. something like that. scale it up. at 3000 ships in a system, you might warp to within 1au of the destination. just see how everyone likes slow-boating it back to the gang when too many ships are in a system... warping becomes unpredictable and high-risk at this point.that would make \"more\" far less valuable. \"warp fleet\" and everyone is quite distant from each other type stunt. you might have stealthed ships dropped right on top of enemy ships or a titan warp well behind the lines of an enemy fleet -- fodder time stuff.this idea has it's problems too. it could be exploited more by defenders than attackers but i've yet to come up with anything that allows for it yet discourages the behavior. while more is how you win, people will want to bring more.whatever is done, it does need to make managing fleets extremely difficult the more you bring and it needs to be a game mechanic that does not prevent it, simply makes it extremely undesirable (like shooting a concord ship in 1.0 space... nothing stops you but it's usually not all that bright to do.)"
"you won't accomplish it with effects, especially ones that make it harder to coordinate by jumbling your tactics up.there is actually an awesome solution to the lag portion of the blob in assembly hall right now, which quite literally handles the lag issue with designed lag. with the lag out of the equation, you're stuck with arguing against \"more numbers == more effective\". the only way to do it without being silly is to:a - exponentially decrease effectiveness of more numbers. ie 2 on 1 gives 100% effectiveness to first person, 75% to second (175% vs 200%), then a third person would get 50% effectiveness (100 + 75 + 50 = 225% effectiveness vs 300%). the reality is far more complicated than this, but it's the only..methodology that could be used without breaking the game completely.or b - institute the los physics. though, when objects have magical contact boxes which make you dance on nothing this seems unlikely.that makes the easiest methods forced operation on multiple fronts to split the fleets up, or smaller targets that quicker strike forces could hit (though this moreso encourages smaller ship size composition of fleets than smaller fleet numbers)."
"i don't know but something is needed or you will find 1000 vs 1000 going to 2000 vs 2000 on up and it will keep spiraling up as long as \"more\" wins the day. look to the \"lot of ships\" post -- i believe one team said they had about 1000 or 2000 more they could bring but didn't?blobs won't end until something discourages using more and perhaps stacking penalties (diminishing returns) might be an answer. hull = can have x number \"efficiently\" shooting at it. after that, no extra damage nor effects apply. who knows.i don't know what would work but, again, something is needed to prevent the \"more for the win\" that causes the lag."
"i don't like repeating myself for no reason. if your issue is the lag, go check out"
"1 structure doing it for a whole system? noevery ship running an automated scan? yes. it is the reason why ccp put a cooldown period for the directional scanner."
"technically, warping between any two celestials still takes 20-30 seconds on average due to acceleration/deceleration, so it's not like the attacker is on top of you the moment he gets a warpable. i would agree that 20 seconds is too long, since you won't be looking at it 100% of the time and you still need to align to get the hell out of dodge, but five seconds wouldn't be so bad in most cases. something will have to be done with cloaky warpers though, or stealth bombers and combat recons will be all we'll ever see (or won't see).as far as server performance goes, i think a 360 scan might be less taxing on the server than the actual directional, and as such could be performed more often. also, autorepeat and manual scanning don't have to share the timer (could be like, it will autorepeat every five seconds, but you can manually force it to scan more often)."
"nah, you got me wrong there, let me rephrase. the installed \"scanner upgrade thingy\" on the i-hub in a given 0.0 system would determine if and how efficient the automated scan works. thus in unclaimed/unupgraded systems you could basically have similar mechanics to now (or even no scanning? but nvm, that's another can of worms...). in upgraded systems any ship in that system would get the benefit of the automated scan.so basically you would have the option for \"every ship running an automated scan\" (in the system)... if you/sov holder are willing to pay for it. and invest some effort in upgrading the system. so it is not the 1 structure doing the scan (not like the old pos' system scanning array), it is just enabling the ships to do it. also by somewhat limiting the spread of that mechanism it might lighten a bit the potential server load globally.smart thing to do would ofc be to implement it in a way that the pilot/player would actually have to watch this automated scanner as well as now the directional one. like mentioned before, i really don't want it to become a gift to your neighborhood macro to make his life easier. which a universal autoscan function might well be."
"1) the first problem is that you can have the probes in range of your in board scanner for less than 5 seconds and the ship warping to you will be on your on board scanner only for the last part of his warp (or even for no part of it if it is use a cov op cloak). so you need a scanner cycle equal or shorter than the shortest possible cycle for the probes or you would routinely fail to detect them even checking the scanner at every cycle.2) with autorepeat and manual scanning using different cycles you are helping the macros. an automated third party program has no trouble hitting the scan button at the highest frequency while a player will be usually slower. and so we hit again the problem of running hundred or thousand of queries to the server. less than if it was possible to do this in every system, but probably enough to create problems as soon as a decent number of ships is in a upgraded system."
"it is a good move from ccp to remove the learning skills, in the aspect that new players will be able to invest the time in more usefull skills, to learn about the game and have fun.it is also good that players that trained those skills a long time ago, have the skill points back and may invest on some lvl 5 specialisation.but what about people that spend a considerable time training the learning skills to lvl 5, having no fun and no sense of going anywhere, and now can't have they're time returned !?because you can surely return the skill points, yes ... but not the extra advantage that it would give, in relation to people that chose not to painfully train them to that extra lvl 5's.and way only +12 points over the base attributes ? why not +13 for example !? there are so many interesting activity's in eve, surely people should have better chances of trying more of them."
"easier than that.the only thing that prevents active tanks from being highly regarded for pvp are energy neutralizers/vamps.to offset those, in missions or in pvp, is very difficult to impossible so those who fit passive/buffer tanks do better than those who fit active tanks.the fix: either lower the efficiency of these energy drain technologies (bad idea) or up cap booster technologies. either solution could easily move active tanks back into viable use."
"when is ccp going to apply the boost to the black ops? i mean like the the 4ly base instead of the 2 ly base, and what not?"
"will the people supporting this change explain how it will be economic to gank a freighter after insurance is removed?i mean since killing t1 haulers and such will scarcely be affected, the real beneficiaries of this change would be the freighter pilots.why should freighters be invulnerable while new players in smaller ships will be left out in the cold to take all the attention?"
"this would make surprise ganks a lot more scarier. ship instantly falls out of warp right next to you with a resounding thud and oh dear there goes my shield. please do this ccp."
"cosmetic only.to me personalisation is something i've been waiting on quiet some time. whether it's clothing, earrings, or a customized bumpersticker.but paying extra ? no! we make isk enough to purchase those form ingame stores."
"cosmetic onlyreason: more money for ccp that doesn't hurt players. i could care less if you have a tutu and i don't, i'll still pod that tutu-toting-creep. microtransactions are bad when they effect game mechanics, but not graphics. micros have a real potential in stations for people with too much cash (or too stupid parents?) to get something that makes them feel 'speeshul'.there is one big problem though...these cannot be buyable with isk. they must be bought with real money. they must not be tradeable.why?if bought with isk, you reopen a whole new venue for isk sellers ingame. as it stands normal commodities will likely be isk buyable for your station quarters in incarna. (god knows how ccp will stop vendors on that...) we don't want to backslide into that, right? unholy rage was a huge success, let's keep it that way. if you allow trade of these items, then isk vendors become 'specialty items' vendors. (see spammers in wow for codes to spectral tigers or w/e). you absolutely must avoid this.cosmetics if they aren't tradable or purchasable with isk. folks with too much cash get happy, ccp gets more money for their incredible game, normal players don't give a hoot and play the actual game."
"friendly bump :)"
"ok, i like the idea, but it seems to me there are some troubling issues that some people might have insight into.first and foremost you would need a relative basis for consistency and for this we would probably take cpu and load of an empty node and cross reference this to some sort of baseline for time. so we have a relativistic benchmark for the passage of time in eve as it relates to server/node load. but this begs the question, where is the line drawn? how will this mechanic know exactly when to dilate time?for example, will jita constantly experience some sort of time dilation effects when it isn't strictly necessary to do so? will a node with only one person on it be subjected to the same effects to maintain uniformity? or will it simply turn itself on when a certain level of backlogging occurs?secondly, and more importantly in my estimation, how will this be applied to one system specifically? rather one grid specifically. i'm no guru of the infrastructure in eve as it relates to coding, but i think it would be a monumental task to apply this sort of time dilating effect on the fly. since we know how well fleet engagement forms work out, unless this was automated it would amount to the same thing.other than those things, fighting lag with lag seems like an innovative idea to me but i have my reservations, including the potentiality that it is impossible, or would actually not fix the lag."
"diablo 2.if anyone has ever played d2 (wait a minute, who hasn't?) you'll know that when online some pretty hilarious moments happened with lag. swinging away...slow motion...then super speed to catch up. this concept runs in line with that a little.it's a good idea, but the problem is people don't want slow motion at all. you're right that the goal is unattainable (probably always will be because the game will get better faster than internet speeds?). i'd like to see what devs could make of this though as there is one big advantage: no crashes and fleet battles keep going.they go slow...yes...but going that not at all is your point, i guess. kind of like when scii lags and your marines run half-speed. the game is slow as hell when that happens, but both players are still at least able to make tactical decisions at the same speed...which means the play field is still equalized, if only slower. in eve this translates to slow cycle times and movement, but everyone can still play and it just gives every player an equal chance to contribute to the battle.i support further research on how well it works."
"looks like my phantasm and i think it's junk compared to my ashimmu, cynabal and even my lowly navy vexor. it is better than any t1 cruiser, but it's not better than t2 and pirate faction ships are intended to be. back when the faction ships were being retooled, ccp stated very clearly that their intention was the following setup: t1 < navy < t2 < pirate. they largely achieved this except in the case of the phantasm, for it it's t1 < navy = pirate < t2. the fact that the navy omen and phantasm have the same price tag (80-90m) speaks volumes."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"supporting"
"yeah"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"price was based on the usage."
"1.0"
"when no mods fit, ashimmu actually has stronger shield tank than phantasm ;ptake a note on phantasm shield regen speed ;pe: typo"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"/me requesting some game masters to this topic :d"
"checking for some info on repair drones, i stumbled across this thread, though i am unable to fly a carrier yet, it is in the plans. i fully support this idea, and hope, even though it is over a year old, it is taken into consideration. while schnooker's idea, the repair bomb, is not necessarily bad, i enjoy the more \"logical\" idea of a maintenance bay. even if it is available only to supercaps (i hope not hehe).one more thing, using scrap metal as the repair cost would be a great idea! it mirrors the idea of turning a useless item into a far more used one. anyone remember damage controls being patched from the least used item in the game to the most used? hehe now its time for me to not blindly reply and actually read this thread for any ideas for or against it."
"what if we gave them the ab buff that was lined up for the assault ships? maybe reduced to 40% per level?"
"i like it, but the extra info for each target that would have to be sent to every person targeting him would probably kill the already loaded server in big fights, so i still can't support this."
"i'm pretty sure it would be just as intensive as undocking from a station with 5-10 other people as undocking (ie not really). i highly doubt that it would have to render the entire world multiple times just to have several \"look at\" type requests going at the same time."
"results now include csm filtering"
"hey, look, all it took was a little \"processing\" and \"filtering\" to knock assault frigates down from first place and out of the top ten. and you were also able to bump a few things that those idiots who voted were just too damn stupid to properly appreciate up above them. smooooth."
"that's how it works. if ccp just wanted direct voting on issues, the csm wouldn't be necessary. the results also show what the real support from the community for each general idea was, so ccp can see what the players actually want to be prioritized, even though the current csm doesn't want to push those ideas as a priority, since they and their supporters can benefit more from other less popular changes.edit: just wanted to make clear, that i don't have a problem with how things work. all items were good improvements and the game will benefit from them, even though i would have chosen differently. there is also the point, that if we go by popularity alone, some fixes/improvements will get delayed indefinitely, since the majority doesn't utilize such systems on a regular basis if ever."
"the omen is the only tier 2 *combat* cruiser that is not able to fit a full rack of it's biggest bonused dps guns. it requires a fitting mod to achieve this.however it also has an extra fitting slot to balance this out:stabber-- 6/3/3 = 12 slotsvexor---- 5/3/4 = 12 slotscarcal--- 5/5/2 = 12 slotsomen----- 5/3/5 = 13 slotsyou can't ask for a bonus without having this removed, since it would make it stand head and shoulders above all the other cruisers. it has excellent range with its weapons and the highest hi-slot base damage of all the tier 2 cruisers.the way i see it, you ask for teh low slot to be removed and get +20% base pg, or 10% pg + cpu.the omen rocks and with 5mil pg rigs it is amazing. it's a fantastic ship but everyone just seems to forget it exists."
"done!topic updated. and thank you all for supporting this topic."
"not a problem, you can only apply a plex if you can log in to do it. you can petition to get your account activated for 1 day in order to do it, but if you start trying to do that 10 times a month in order to apply 1 day plexes, gms will notice and not help you out.personally though, i'm not going to be paying for vanity stuff anyway and i don't care if i'm buying 1 plex for 30 days or 30 plex for 1 month that cost the same in total as the 30 day (as long as we get the option to \"apply x plex to account\" rather then having to apply 30 plex 1 at a time), so i don't care either way."
"from a consumer point of view, i agree.however, from a business point of view, this is the same as allowing someone to \"freeze\" his account if he won't play for a while."
"indeed, this is a good idea in essence but it would allow player to effectively \"pause\" their subscription whenever they wanted to.edit: i'm all for making 30d plexes sold separately from the 60d utc codes however."
"plex 'cents'?only if paying your account with them is more expensive than a normal plex. also, only if this doesnt seduce ccp to introduce more microtransactions than necessary, which it probably would."
"that sums it up quite well in my opinion."
"wow all the shield haters out there f*ck yourselves. you ever have to passive regen 1million shield hp? how bout triage it? (just a hint it takes 2 cycles,unless your running a 4 rep unstable triage carrier).thats the wyvern for ya when a leviathan jumps onto grid. its not some lil smidgen off your shields a scimitar can rep in a few cycles. heres some numbers for youwyvern all 5s with 3 caldari navy pdus and 3 large cdfe 2's, all level 5's and a level 5 levi suppling bonus.2,572,595 raw shield hp (without bonus's)3,537,317 raw shield hp22981.8 recharge in seconds thats 383.03 minutes and 6.3838 hours to regen from 0...so when levi jumps in your total shields goes up to 3.5 million but your current shields stay at 2.5 million.now lets regen that 1 million, ok so if you assume straight line regen (which you cant cause regen slows near top of shields and peaks near 30%) you regen 153.9 per second. this means to regen 1mil shield hp on a straight line it would take 6497.72579597141 seconds, or in hours 1.8 hours to passively regen the bonus from a leviathan, with max skills.ok how bout triage.running a thanatos with all cap power relays and cap rechargers you can be cap stable running 4 capital shield reps in triage. ( all lvl 5 skills)which rep 1200 per repper per second, which is 4800 per second which will rep the wyvern in 3.47 minutes. now thats assuming that every jump you will have time to triage yourself, with a perfect triage toon. oh and good luck doing that in a fleet fight as someone will dd your triage carrier as if they dont they gotta fight a full health wyvern not one at 60% primary tank.now lets compare armor bonus's aeon with slaves and and an erebus bonusing.3,650,334 raw armor hp with slaves and no regenerative plates. and trimark 2's 3,942,361 raw armor hp with the above plus akemons implant5,420,746 raw armor hp with erebus bonus and abovethis means you gain 1,478,385 raw hp the same thanatos as above which also reps 4800 armor hp per second would take 5.13 minutes to triage that much hp for an aeon. except they dont need to its immediately applied to the ship and does not need to be repped. so if you say capital armor tanks and shield tanks are equal your f*cking wrong, and stop eft warrioring your make believe capital skills.shields need fixing support this sh*t sooo hard"
"yes, needs fixing"
"i`m going to guess the lev and ere run about the same times for their shields too? thanks for the math"
"well the levi will be similar yes, but the erebus won't matter as shields arent its primary tank so its not as effected by the problem as the levi and rag"
"a nice change for fleet bonus for siege warfare. at the moment siege leadership bonus are the only leadership bonus that do not take full effect the moment they are applied requiring some kind of set up time. your gang changing systems should not require shield repair/regen."
"sure, but the new large remote repper will now use pg in proportion to the cpu cost of a shield transporter. so, say hello to your new 3500 mw large rar ii! start buying those rcu iis!"
"supported - i want my siege mindlink to give 15% instant, like the armor one!!!"
"you need to understand how shields and armor work in this game, because that's not how either of them work.eve represents your armor and structure hp this way:maximum hp - damage takenwhile your shield hp is represented as a single value, shield charge.this means that if your maximum armor or structure hp go up, your 'damage taken' does not change. thus, your total armor/structure hp have increased, but only because the maximum changed. as soon as your maximum goes down, they will go down.in comparison, shield charge is not modified by having your maximum shield hp go up.if they moved shield hp to use the same model (maximum hp - damage taken), having a shield boost effect applied would not cause new shields to magically appear out of nowhere, because any damage you take while the booster is active would increase the damage taken to your shield, possibly past the limit - such that even boosting your maximum shields would still leave your total shields at 0, because shield damage taken exceeded your maximum shields.they could also make it more 'fair' by doing a percentage-based adjustment of your damage taken, so that if you had 100% damage before the effect applied, you have 100% damage after. i don't know if that's necessary, and it's more work, but it wouldn't be hard to do either."
"i support this, hate to see my shield goes down every time i jump."
"sure, as long as 1600mm plates get their powergrid usage cut by 50% and agility penalty removed :)sure! as long as armor gets a great full-gamut active hardener like the invulnerability field ii :)when was the last time you saw an active armor tank being used vs. an rr buffer one? that's right. hardly ever. the fact that active armor tank bonused hulls such as the brutix, myrmidon, hyperion, eos and astarte are nearly always fitted with a passive shield buffer should tell you something. yep, just the one argument. plus the other three you ignored. i do think shield bonuses should apply immediately. what i am saying is that won't change the fact that armor tanked ships have a number of severe disadvantages vs. shield tankers and that should also be looked at.the only issue i can think of that really sells an armor tanked ship is the sig radius, which might be a valid tactic if sensor damps were less terrible but provides next to no advantage at all after you've locked the ship."
"confirming poster wants 800mm plate fitting reqs on his 1600mm plates as compensation for allowing shield users to graciously have a model on the equal level.also confirming poster thinks sig radius has 'almost no effect' other than for lock times, and should be ignored."
"derp, that was supposed to read 800mm plates - my bad. also come to mention it 1600mm's should get about 15% pg usage shaved off if you want to make everything exactly the same also confirming troll cherry picked points out and ignored everything else."
"makes sense"
"while your at it ogo, lets make the dcu give the same amount of resists to armor and shields. oh and give shield tanks an implant set and officer implant to increase shield hp, or make slaves not work for caps.... or akemons.... just saying.... also give us a mod that increases our shield by a percentage like an energized regenerative plate, would be great for my wyvern.the biggest advantage armor has over shields is midslots.... tackle, ecm, webs, sebos. yes shield tanks can fit damage mods but if they cant hold someone down then what use are they. nyx's and aeons can have a point and a web and a sebo and cap recharge mods, the wyverns and hel's must use pdu's or power relays in the lows if they wanna jump this year. not to mention if your not fitting cn pdu's your just terrible.... shields are gimped at the moment cause you cant count their bonus towards their tank when they jump into an enemy cause its not applied immediately. since the biggest draw back to armor is being slow compared to sig raduis for shields. which neither really affect supers or capitals, the are mute points then its just a question of cap regen, tank, and utility mods. shields generally get a better sustainable local tank than armor but that doesnt matter (unless crystals worked with caps),cause noone active tanks supers, there fore they should get an implant set that does work for passive tanking shields. also have the bonus apply immediately to the top end.i'll be honest if crystals worked with capitals im sure a large portion of the wyverns in eve would switch to local tank with a large buffer. but even ill admit it would be op as pre dominion an active dual amp wyvern has 80% and above resistances and a dps tank of over 12k, with crystals that would be double if not double and a half... 24k to 30k dps tank, plus rr....so stop with the argument that armor is worse off than shields. becauseshields local tank> armorrr armor > shieldsshield buffer + nano> armor buffer + nanoarmor buffer> shield buffer ( if you dont believe it take a look at all the titans and supercarriers in the game and youll see over 70-80% are armor tanked models not shield models. also you see wyverns fitting eanms but you dont see aeons fitting invulns. cause they know everynoe else is in a nyx or an aeon so they will get armor reps more likely than shield reps.the basic argument is dont make shields = to armor for caps cause then my aeon is ugly and not 100 times better than a wyvern. and my nyx isnt better than the wyvern and hel just cause its armor.fixing this would make shield caps and supers have equal footing compared to armor caps and supers."
"compare fittings:l extender165 mw46 tf800 plate230 mw28 tfshields have easy grid fitting because shield tanks often have grid to spare (easy to load up on pds) but cpu is always tight. making the cpu the hard part of fitting shield components makes it harder to fit. you wanna make those two the same? great! that benefits shield tankers over armor tankers to have equal cpu/grid requirements compared to the current fitting reqs.honestly, that would make more sense than having anp and eanm to me. always seemed to me like you should have to activate/energize the eanm. i'm sure there's a bitter old vet story behind that that comes from the early days of eve.same is said of almost all active tanks in a fleet situation. shield tankers have some ships that are active tank bonused as well. often, such ships are used for ratting. biggest problem there is that hybrids suck, especially for ratting. so, the problem with the brutix and its like has more to do with their weapons than their active tank bonuses.as to the rr stuff, same imbalance with rr. i fly basi, scimi, guard. being a testie, you may be only familiar with shield tanked gangs (hurray for drake fleets) even though you seem to be one of those unfortunates who flies gallente. most fleets fly armor rr. there's a reason for this. you can't blame the fail of gallente ships on armor tanking by the way. when you get into cap ships, you'll be happy you trained gallente."
"i'm sure even their cap ships will be heavily nerfed soon. by that point i might not if this is the way things are going :(with the plates the problem is compounded by the fact that the repper modules and bonused weapons on armor tanked ships are also power grid hungry. oftentimes they can't compete with the dps/tank that shield ships (in particular drakefleets) can pump out, as the choice between tank and damage appears to be a far sharper one. although i'm sure that's more down to me being terrible at this game than anything else.i'm not saying that i don't support the idea of the fc/fleet bonus being applied immediately, but it just seems alot of the arguments leave armor tanked ships (especially gallente ones), out in the cold."
"ccp said they are aware of the hybrid weapons problem. based on when ccp acknowledged the projectiles as having a problem and when they fixed them... give hybrids another year and they may be useful once more. even after the semi-recent nerf, the moros is still possibly the top dread. thanny/nyx don't have whine threads about them, so i wouldn't worry about these still being worthy training goals (though the recent super carrier nerf hurt nyx pilots more than other scarrier pilots).drakes are definitely the toe-to-toe, knock down bruiser when it comes to sub-bs fleets. there are a lot of different types of fleet compositions though that do not favor the drake. again, gallente ships are out in the cold for reasons other than their tank (some of those ships need a complete rework i think - brutix being one).tl;dr - fixing the shield bonus does no damage to gallente ships that they weren't already feeling (and ccp is aware of)."
"just realized something completely obvious that kinda negates most of the arguments here.the bonuses aren't changing--they already exist. the ships people are whining about--passive tankers--are the ones already able to regen the shield and take advantage of it as long as they're not immediately jumped.its the ships that are functionally equivalent to armor tankers--buffer shield tanks--that see the most pain from this. so the \"drake!!!11\" argument is pointless--the drake is the ship least hurt by the current mechanic."
"the short is it does not work in npc sovereignty region."
"as it is now, a smart alliance is completely immune to roaming gangs. they don't need to use stargates. all their business is conducted between pos and outposts. cyno jumping replaces regular space travel.roaming gangs can only hope to score kills on \"dumb\" players and farmer alt's.to make matters worse, a roaming gang can never know whether a \"dumb\" player they just tackled is a cyno bait, ready to light up and bridge 30 bored alliance members from many jumps away. it's russian roulette every time you commit to combat. ccp has been punishing the roaming gang playstyle for years.the biggest possible boost to small gang pvp in 0.0 would be elimination of jump bridges. a single change that would significantly increase traffic flow thru 0.0 gates, greatly increasing dynamics of 0.0 life on small scale. i know this because i played the game before jump bridges and know difference by experience."
"0.0 was much more enjoyable before bubble proliferation."
"eliminate jump bridges? that would unnecessarily cripple nullsec logistics.perhaps restrict tonnage/hr for jump bridges and star gates, restrict tonnage/jump for star gates. add deployable modules to star gates that will increase (or decrease) the tonnage/hr and/or tonnage/jump. thus jump bridges become useful for high priority logistics (pos fuel, supercap parts), roaming gangs have targets of opportunity (star gate upgrade modules), life becomes much more interesting due to restrictions on movement. new strategies on dealing with neighbours could include interdicting stargates (reducing tonnage to a few frigates per hour) or breaching fortifications (black ops squad blows up interdiction modules)."
"whether something is enjoyable or not is a matter of personal taste. but whether something is beneficial for a specific game play style is more absolutely defined.the bubble mechanics definitely encourage pvp, on all scales. a lot of fights simply wouldn't happen without them. and there is more variety to tactics."
"i was under impression that all the logistics was done using caps: carriers and jump freighters. they use cynos, not jump bridges. isn't that so?certainly such a change would be detrimental to alliance power. the balance would be shifted toward small gang pvp. i don't believe it is possible to encourage small gang pvp without compromising alliance warfare - short of dumping masses of noobs into 0.0 and enjoying the feeding frenzy that would ensue."
"i just wish to improve the game by improvements and new features but not nerf the current things."
"i think this is a great idea to promote small-scale fights. if 0.0 alliances ignore and blue-ball roaming gangs they end up losing systems upgrades."
"you know that jump bridges and cyno beacons are prime targets for camping by small gangs and ganking unsuspecting targets that come through them, right?"
"keen idea."
"yes i heard of that tactic being used successfully, in some cases. but all the success stories i heard involved roaming fleet - 15, 20 people gangs.i have attempted to camp the bridges a few times with my 2 ships, but each time the concentrated fire from pos guns, pos web, pos scramble was too much. it's really not viable for small roaming gangs.of course the blobs can do anything"
"make the jump bridges easier to incap. that would benefit small gangs. at a million hp shields and 15m hp armor, you might as well be shooting the tower. if a reasonable roaming gang could hit and incap a jump bridge, a large amount of entertaining chaos would ensue. always annoyed me how nearly impossible it is to tactically take down a jump bridge network (short of getting a spy in and emptying a bridge).i support making jump bridge networks more vulnerable."
"what on earth made you think i have no capital experience? all i have said is i do not own a supercap or are you basing all your information on a five second google of the posting characters name?when assesing a change for balance and gameplay implications the criteria should not be as you appear to be using if the people who will directly benefit like the sound of it.while i may have not proved to you that i can give an educated objective opinion you have shown that you cannot."
"and yet you bring no argument proving your capital experience.you realize how flawed it is that those with experience with the ship shouldn't be allowed input because they are biased right? supercaps are unlike any other ship in eve. flying a supercap is unlike any other ship in eve. if you haven't flown one or dealt with them extensively the odds of you fully understanding them are minimal. but it's nice to know you basically chose to compare apples to oranges instead of answering anything in my post ^_^"
"i never claimed that people with experience should not be allowed input thats something you have made up. i replied to your post you replied by attacking my me. you asked for a ship you consider underpowered (i am not trying to argue that point) to be buffed with a bonus that would buff the power projection and mobility of all capital fleets with access to one. i raised a concern that you were buffing something that did not need buffing and you replied by tell us that the people getting buffed liked the idea. i don't see how this justifies the boost. people with supercaps can have input but their enthusiasm for a change cannot be used as critera for acceptance."
"so you think a faction ship that costs an extreme amount more than its t1 counterparts should be worse in literally every way? that has no need of a buff? with stats as is this ship is less useful than a hel. hel's are not only the least useful supercarrier by a very long shot they are actively discouraged in fleets because they are so bad. you propose that a ship worse than a hel doesn't need a buff? what is your reasoning for this?"
"that's not what he said. but, you are well aware of this.honestly man, i'm starting to wonder, all you do is selectively engage on argumentation. every time someone actually comes up with an argument, concern or statement, all you do is twist the angle on both topic and quote so you can sidestep the hot potato and jump back on your own horse as if everything is well on track. can't you at least take this assembly hall a little bit more seriously? it's not a lobby for congress you know. give it a little credit, less reflexive behaviour, give people room because everybody is different and allow for discussion from different perspectives without slapping, twisting or sidestepping. come on, you have it in you. at this rate you'll have more succes picking up the social engineering stick again."
"this was the original argument:the ship will cost a lot more than a nyx but be on par or worse than a hel. that doesn't make sense. increased range means increased agility of fleets. look at the fast-moving fleets and tell me if they are bigger or smaller than the slow moving blobs? you want smaller fleets to be more useful? let them move around faster.also, irion is the one who started the troll behavior with the bounty office comment."
"i would respond to you ipod but bagehi did it for me. it became clear almost immediately that he was arguing just to argue. so as i said several posts ago i let him just to keep the thread bumping. he stopped bringing anything new or even countering my actual relevant points long ago."
"deleliberately left the unrealstic pos security issue as a chance for corp thiefts. what a shame."
"this is a great idea and would improve a lot of hanger issues with those of us living in wh's. please allow containers to be renamed while in the hanger as well and possibly trash-able from the hanger itself with rights."
"i think this would be of considerable help to those of us in pos's or wh's and maybe even good in corp hangers in higher space just for better organaztion."
"hell at least let us open a gsc at the pos without having to take it out of the hangar."
"just by reading all the pro topics, in comparison to much lesser amount of against then in each against topic there is about 20x more pro posts, so stop bothering yourself.no, not supported."
"updated title."
"failed pirate needs to grow smarter."
"as much as i appreciate trolling, where is the \"adapt\" part you speak of?the carebear did pretty much nothing, he got a game mechanic changed in his favour. thats not adapting.as far as probing them in a mission goes, why go through that effort anyways? its so much easier to kill them straigth at the gate into system."
"pathetic idea - learn to probe:jump into system - find the guy with the scanner. reduce range and angle til you know how far and where he is.use your brain to judge the distance before elevation. use a celestial to get a referance. do some pythagoras.then launch the f*cking probe on 0.5 au and get a hit in 7 seconds with sh*t skills.learn to be a better prober and stop posting junk."
"even without adding probes to the overview (with editing the xml file before or officially now), you could have seen them on the overview just with unchecking the \"use active overview settings\" checkbox. so nothing changed. carebears adapted and learned to scan for probes instead of just getting ganked."
"wasn't there already a massive post about this?"
"while i can completely see why people like the new dynamic/re-sizable window behavior in eve, it's not for me. why did they remove any way to have the eve window act as it did pre-incarnia 1.0? as of now it's impossible to simultaneously 1) have a fixed-size eve window and 2) move it around on the screen/from screen to screen. i could use the new \"fixed\" window mode, but it doesn't have any title bar, so i can't drag the window anywhere if i want to move it around (say if i wanted to look at another eve client/alt).currently it's annoying as if you accidentally move the window too far (invoking aero snap) or accidentally double-click on the titlebar, the eve client will resize, re-arrange all the internal eve windows and then forget it's old size (breaking the normal windows maximize/restore functionality), and make it very difficult to undo.proposal: add back a 4th display mode option for static/fixed window sizes *with* a normal border/titlebar, so we can move the client windows around without having to worry about accidentally resizing or maximizing the client, like eve acted pre-incarnia."
"++"
"turn off aero snap?"
"doesn't fix the underlying issue of accidentally resizing the client (double click on the titlebar does the same thing).plus for everything other than eve, i like aero snap."
"if they have agents and the agents give lp, you should be able to cash in on it. also, wiki article."
"never hauled, never plan to, but this is a good idea."
"i like it, good point, good idea.could we maybe have more than one corporation behave this way though? maybe 4 (one for each empire for those that aren't exactly loved by the gallente). interbus sticks out particularly like the op said for not having a station, but there are similar corps that could be modified for this idea (or new ones created!).expanding industrial path is something not done recently afaik."
"simply, i would like to be able to sort through posts by different criteria than \"most recent\". why can't we have the ability to sort by most supportive votes, or highest ratio of support, or most views. stuff like that.discuss"
"support ;)"
"you are mistaking the eve online forum for actual forum software and not what it really is - the results of a simple select statement from the database wrapped in html.that said, ccp is (supposedly) already working on new forums."
"yes it terribly blinds me"
"supported."
"supported.i think the concerns over abuse are overstated. and it is generally poor policy to punish legitimate users in order to make life difficult for the non-legitimate.farmers aren't a problem to my thinking they are just one way to do missions, it tends to be a better way of generating pure isk than blitzing and has the nice side effect of making blitzing more profitable than it would be if everyone blitzed.macro's are a simple reality of mmo gameplay and honestly there is just never going to be much that can be done about it other than to continue to target rmt buyers and make the cost of rmt too high. besides the gtc system goes a long way towards deterring that sort of activity. as long as repetitive boring tasks are required in gameplay macroing will exist. macro-mining exists because it is an extremely boring activity that requires minimal interaction and little to no actual thought. courier missions are the same. personally i'd like to see a revamp of the faction system. it should be much easier to earn back standings with the empire factions than it currently is. i end up declining all faction and storylines because i have no interest in limiting my travel and business options.and factional warfare? forget about that. as to statements about easy access to systems with multiple l4 agents maybe if you are caldari. try flying for another race though and your options to do so seriously diminished, not to mention that even if you should find a good hub odds are many others have done the same including the mission hunters and they will have a saturated lp market.the ability to decline (or even better logic in limiting mission choices) would make it easier for mission runners to spread out which would help on many levels.oh and while on the subject. mining missions should definitely be buffed. the reward for time invested in them is stupidly low and only the worst sort of masochist would waste time with them. either improve their isk payout (a lot) reduce their time requirements, or get rid of them completely. also i think that the number of agents needs to be increased period. i mean really why not? would just mean more diversity and spread the player base out. particularly for non-caldari corporations. the reason that so many mission runners run in caldari space is because they have double the number of agents of any other faction. increase the number of agents for the other factions and you will see the population spread out."
"good ideas and i get your point: don't affect the economy necessarily but try and get missions to be more lively.i dunno if you can really change the layout of missions in eve as the game is what it is.#1 - this could bring agent standing into a more useful perspective. if you decline, lose agent not corp standing. agent standing, alongside the original quality number, will determine pay. the more missions you do, the more the agent likes you, the more he'll 'slip you something extra' for you rp folks.#2 - not so sure on this one as being effective as it doesn't really solve the problem of boring missions.#3 - i really like this idea and think you ought to expand on it. think of other games, mmo or not, that had 'bounty board' styled missions. they range in pay and difficulty. the best one that comes to mind is the old game freelancer or the x-universe games where, depending on how much time (or effort) you had to spend, could help decide to take that quick&dirty mission over the longer, but usually more profitable, missions.#4 - storylines really could use some sort of fix in this regard. i don't mind 'series' for storylines, but it sucks when some of them are mining or couriers to god knows where. you could make these 'purchasable' with lp, rather than count up to them. this makes them not mandatory but a nice reward for those lp.#5 - i wouldn't touch this. i think one of the aspects of eve and missioning particularly is the idea of loyalty. faction missions are faction missions. the skills diplomacy and the choice to work for someone else is always an option. however, i think these missions should have a boost in lp given the loss you are taking for a different faction. reward loyalty, right?#6 - i don't know if bounties need to be messed with at all. i think they are fine as is and are just a nice supplement to the game as a whole. however, as i said in #5, an additional reward could be arranged for killing non-bounty ships (like factions and rogue drones). this approach makes these missions less problematic for pursuit.i personally want to see a form of #3 come into existance, as it provides great potential for gang missions. i'd love to see gang-oriented missions on all levels that could be selected to provide a balanced, more difficult setup for mission runners. to avoid these more lucrative missions being exploited by high-sp counts, you always have the gate restrictions as you do now to keep battleships spamming lvl 2's. the agent payout would need to be more dynamic to ensure a gang got paid...scams on this would kill the desire to form a gang and take down one of these missions if the leader can steal the entire payout.mo opinionedit: i hate referring to other games clearly not as cool as eve, but wow comes to mind when i think of the fleet finder in eve. lfg works well in wow and is one of the main reasons people get in touch (or used to anyways). gang missions give fleet finder more utility and helps newer players (who typically pursue missions intially to get new ships and isk) immerse themselves in the game and community. i know that i love flying missions with my buddies, even though more battleships just makes it easier. it's fun having people around...that's why mmo's work right?"
"the only reason i've spent so many hours configuring anti-alias settings is to make the eve font readable (smooth).it appears the new aa settings don't apply to text but only graphics. kind of pointless.switching back to 8xsq (2x2 ss + 2x ms)."
"do you mean like cleartype? :/"
"it can function a little like a \"cleartype\" by smoothing the jaggy edges.kinda po-mans cleartype.apple owns the patent on \"making things look good on lcd monitors\".\"cleartype\" is ms's attempt to get lcds to work better without using tech in apple's patent.aa goes someway to fixing the horrible eve font which is rendered without the aid of os based font smoothing.i expected aa in eve would allow me to use my graphics cards gpu to render nice smooth fonts in eve.instead i have to turn off eve's aa settings in order to get smooth fonts.what's more eve graphics look better if i avoid using the in-game settings."
"gpu 8xsq (2x2 ss + 2x ms)"
"i think you're missing the point - before getting some form of aa (cleartype?) added to the font, they should first change the font to one where 6 and g, b and 8, etc, don't look the same. when they do that, they can apply whatever they like to the fonts to make them look better."
"this. also i prefer more prominent text, which clear type does the opposite. pixel fonts are awesome."
"i just want a font large enough to actually read so i can quite using my reading glasses to play eve."
"i'm really sorry to say this, but you must be insane.antialiasing fonts makes them less readable, unless they are large enough. eve fonts are barely a couple pixels across, all antialiasing will do to them is make them blurry spots.please, no.also, if your font isn't readable, buy a better monitor."
"i have a character and wanna transfer him with plex.soi bought 2 plex`s in jita.but when i try to transfer him the site tells me that i don`t have the plex!!!!any1 can tellme what i`m doing wrong?tyvm"
"remember that a plex is just a normal in-game item. you need to reverse redeem the plexs before they come available for use outside the game."
"actually, that's the trick with this technology - it could be used for animating any character - not only humanoid ones. horse, dragon, octopus, whatever ;-)check this dragon procedurally animated with ikinema in runtimeikinema technology was a \"side effect\" of a scientific research for controlling space-crafts and robots by dr.pechev in univeristy of surrey..."
"i'm not sure your average user would be up to making their own ik animations.it'd be neat if there was some kind of quality control involved but otherwise can you imagine how much dross you'd have to wade through in order to get hole of anything halfway decent?"
"depends on the ui - look at the new character creator - it's just an amazing tool that would be considered \"3d artist dream\" just 10 years ago...and also, that's all about the sand box"
"as discussed in csm 5.012 meeting.if there are specific points to be addressed by proposals, why not have multiple text boxes that need to be filled out answering the points grayscale wants answered?side benefit to this is ah will be harder to clog with posts like this (or any number of ah trolls) as it will take more effort to actually create a new ah topic.p.s. vuk doesn't have to waste time educating the plebes and can post about his appetite instead. elvenlord can shop for new adidas all he wants. 90% of the posts helen highwater was talking about might not be posted and mazzilliu doesn't have to make a boring writeup."
"agree completely"
"this."
"would you mind giving a link to that?i couldn't find any info on that :/"
"csm main wiki pagethe in-process page shows what csm has passed on to ccp for consideration. the resolved page shows what has been implemented or rejected by ccp. these pages are being worked on, so there are some mistakes."
"nice work to the current csm for updating those wiki pages and keeping players informed. p.s. what happened to 5.011 csm meeting minutes?"
"hi,it's simply a useless feature. to those of you who don't know what can happen to courier packages that way:a while ago ccp included the \"deliver courier package\" entry into the right-click menu of courier crates. unfortunately this entry is right next to the \"repackage\" button. if you happen to click the repackage button your courier package will be split: \"plastic wrap\" on one side and its former content on the other. (that's right, there will be no warning message asking you \"are you sure you want to repackage xy\").in that case you are essentially f.. doomed. you won't be able to complete the contract but you didn't fail it either. don't bother to write a petition about it (\"if it is player error then we tend not to intervene i'm afraid\"). it certainly is a player error but the ui does everything to encourage it.now, instead of using the rklick menu one could always complete the deal through the contract window but that would render the \"deliver courier package\" entry useless again and everyone who runs more than one contract at a time would have to search for the correct set of papers to deliver any contract.proposal: remove \"repackage\" feature for courier packages. it's a useless mechanic for screwing up courier packages and if you want that to happen you can always press the \"fail\" button. introduce another method of getting items out of courier packages after someone hit the \"fail contract\" button.(i am aware of the fact that there is a thread that contains a collection of proposals for improving courier contracts somewhere in these forums but i couldn't find it)regards, lax"
"add a warning perhaps, but that is how you get the items out if you decide that the content is worth enough to give up the collateral and keep the items.escalate the petition, people have gotten stuff back after thrashing it, and after a market mess up where i accidentally put 3 extra 0's at the end of my sell order i got the broker fees (800m or so) reimbursed after quickly canceling the order again."
"now, i've never tried to get stuff out of a courier package intentionally: isn't there also an \"open container\" entry somewhere so you can drag&drop the stuff out?i'm pretty sure there are other ways of getting the stuff you want out of the package without having to repackage the container. if not: even worse of a design error in my opinion.the usual waring message is the least they could do. there's already enough risk in courier contracts. we don't need another feature that can screw you over on the finish line."
"i support this if they add an option to unseal and then open a container with an associated warning message (still allowing the contract to finish perhaps, but tell the person who issued it that it has been opened).i don't know if there is a way of opening them without repackaging, i've never tried."
"no, you need to repackage it.doing that would leave you still in possession of the item that you are tasked with delivering (the actual package) but without its content, and i strongly suspect that is all the server does, create a can with content and give that can a id, then check if a can with that id is delivered to target system. if you can open a courier and do stuff with the content and still complete the contract, you break the system. you could simply open it, take the stuff and still get the collateral back by delivering a empty package."
"in that case let the ui list the \"repackage\" entry as inactive until you brake/fail the contract.regards, lax"
"i think they need to be looked at. long range rockets gimp your speed!?? this doesn't make any sense. how could the type of ammo you have loaded effect your ships ability to move? if you have t2 long range rockets in your cargo you can go much faster than if you have them in your launcher."
"definitely supportedand i have nother one right here remove \"repackage\" feature frm courier packagesregards, lax"
"expensive is entirely a matter of perspective. there are numerous players who can afford a cap fleet of ships and still have piles of isk to spare. don't be fooled into thinking all of these players live in null sec either. allowing cap ships into high sec would end high sec pos one corp at a time as 10 guys dual boxing carriers could easily handle 50-70 man bs fleets which is larger than most empire corps can muster. this is an awful idea that has no real thought beyond \"hey thought would be neato\""
"some people prefer to stay in high sec and do war decs there so they don't have to worry about capitals.terrible idea, not supported."
"and people farming l4s with fighters. hi-sec defo needs that too.also i believe that hi-sec corps should get their poses attacked by dreadnaughts and motherships."
"dear lord, no"
"already being discussed.also, not supported."
"its a good idea. but why name it a squid? if you can think of a name that isn't synonymous with the scourge of the universe, i would support it. and may i take this moment to simply say;kill all squids!!"
"supported with the provision that it is only offline towers.if someone let it run out of fuel, then too bad.also, really, squid?! please work on that."
"i have had trouble locating reseach slots for my bpos and thought it could be cool if people could purchase and/or build research vessels"
"how about no...currently they can be found at a large number of stations in high and low sec as well as there being modules that can be deployed as a pos to do research.if you cannot find a location to use, you fail. if you cannot find a location that is instantly available to you in highsec, stop being a carebear and go find a station in low sec where the queues are much shorter or find a corp that has a pos you can use...edit: here is an idea. you can only improve the bpo while you are logged in, have to perform certain tasks while in it (to stop macro's) and you cannot dock while research is occuring"
"you already can. they're called \"mobile laboratories\". they are vessels in the same sense that a kettle is a vessel :)look into \"player owned starbases\" which are adequately documented in the evelopedia."
"i can think of a few items to go on there!who is going to monitor this page and makesure that it is unbiast as possible?"
"1. spelling.2. you'd have to be pretty paranoid to miss concepts like csm, csm members, ccp, ccp advocates, wiki discussion, wiki draft source, wiki history and more of these things being their own variables."
"i'm wasn't sure if this wiki was for official csm activities that included the whole team, for individual projects, or both. at the moment it looks like group stuff so i guess thats probably my answer."
"this was a reply i made on this thread, i figured it would be more appropiate here, i know it is todo with lag but as you can see lag and blobbing go hand in hand."
"the op is a mother-of-all wall-of-text, so i only skimmed over it.first, your attributes after the change will be the same or higher than with learning skills, except possibly for the maxed out attribute with 5+5 learnings and +5 implants on top of that.second, after training a learning skill, you normally would have to wait until it saves you enough time to \"pay for itself\"; in case of training an advanced learning skill to 5 it's at least one year - however, since ccp is reimbursing the sp in the learning skills, it means you will break even right there. so even if you had 5+5 learning skills for less than a year, the whole time you had them you've been gaining extra sp.that's of course assuming you fived the learnings you actually planned to use heavily, and not all of them just to have them all at 5. in which case it would have taken you over five years to just break even, and ccp is helping you by correcting your mistakes. unless you actually planned to play for decades and max out every skill there is (in which case, yes, you're kinda screwed, a little bit)."
"we've had the advantage of the learning skills we trained. we trained faster for the entire duration that we had the higher learning skills while others around us didn't.trying to rebase the learning skill rebate based on what we could have trained if the new attributes had been in effect since the game began would mean that all players would get an sp rebate regardless of whether they'd trained learning skills or not.going on to propose bonus sp refunded for people who had more sp invested in learning skills is plain ridiculous. you've had the advantage of those learning skills. you've trained more sp in the same time under the same rules as everyone else. on top of that you're getting all those sp invested in learning returned for you to spend on something else. if this is unfair to anyone, it's only to those people who didn't train their learning skills to 5/5.suggesting that those people who trained 5/5 skills should get back far more sp than they invested is asking for two bites of the cherry. it is nonsense."
"i was hoping for a plex for remap option. i would've used it."
"there are a large number of people in favor of plex for remap; unfortunately the vocal minority assumed that \"plex for remap\" = \"plex for anything\" = microtransactions. all the other threads on this subject included the term \"slippery slope\" which also translated to \"once ccp realizes they can make money off remaps they will start trying to sell sp\". the sky is falling people overwhelmed everyone else with half a brain who realize that plex for remap would be beneficial for ccp and eve. of course there's still people out there who believe that paying for their subscriptions with plex does not equal f2p."
"well, if the only reason to have autorepeat timer under five seconds is to see the probes that are visible for under five seconds... it would seem that a more logical solution would be to send a specific alert to a player once his ship has been probed out. not a siren and flashy red screen, but a text notification and maybe an ambient sound (like the one you hear when you activate the probes themselves).autorepeat directional would still be useful when belt ratting, but it wouldn't have to cycle under five seconds. as for cloaky warpers, again, something special would have to be done about them. maybe make them still show up on directional as \"unidentified signature\", maybe only detectable from like 4au rather than 14. they would still \"warp cloaked\" as in not having to recloak after landing on grid."
"please, correct me if i'm wrong, but isn't there some sort of iu reason for local? i thought i read it somewhere, about concord setting up inter-system communication and all ships having transponders or something.i may be wrong. its been a while since i read eve fiction."
"there is a case for it being necessary for the cloning techniques to work. there are also examples of it not being necessary, as well as the fact that you can work around it. ie, the network is upgraded/new jove tech is unveiled, and you only need to be in contact with the regional server, or none at all."
"i have nothing against \"cloaky warpers\", they are doing their function, so there is no need to change anything there. but an alert player has the \"right\" to have a chance of noticing the probes."
"i understand and appreciate this aspect of the issue, and have raised it in the csm internal forums. the problem is that there is no obvious way, given that learning skills are going away, and given the limitations that ccp is working under while removing learning skills, to address it. the people who trained to 5/5 are losing a long-term edge that they expected to have, so in that respect, it is a nerf relative to other players.i have argued for, at a later date, tweaking remaps so they are slightly more extreme, bringing the max rate up to 2760, but this does not address the relative advantage issue.the only consolation i can provide at this point is to point out that the people who trained to 5/5 were clearly thinking about the long-term -- you wouldn't train them if you didn't intend to play the game for years -- and the whole point of removing learning skills (from ccp's point of view) is to make the infamous learning cliff a bit less daunting for new players, thus improving the long-term health of the game."
"it was a choice (pretty stupid one considering presence 5 never could repay itself due to lack of enough charisma based skills). but anyways, the people going 5/5 did enjoy a higher sp accumulation speed while it lasted and they will have more reimbursed sp now to use for skills they aren't min/maxed for. so all in all fair. and yes i do train at 2772sp/h on this char at the moment, i just didn't take all skills to 5/5 for various reasons."
"writing to say thank you to all csm delegates for putting their time into this :)though, as i mentioned in the voting thread, it would be better to have the issues broken down into categories that can be worked on by a specific team, and have a separate vote within each category."
"if you are talking about the page where you can colour in mynxee's hat you'll find i already ripped it out and gave it to the csm.ps. herschel smells funny."
"i like this idea. it's no fun coming out of warp and suddenly get hit with lag while the grid loads.perhaps you should make your own thread for this idea. i would support it."
"fully supported, i'd love to see a \"punch\" into warp. maybe offset the time gained by making the ship slow down longer when coming out."
"110% no. a disgusting idea."
"the new munition changes have remedied the issues with the gallente weapon systems, whether of not it was beneficial to leave the cap penalty on the void & javelin ammo will tell soon enough.for those wondering about the range on the blasters, rails and the dps; to summary things, gallente have the highest optimal, a decent fall off on all there guns (that's blasters and rail guns of all sizes) when compared to the other races. the penalties on there t2 ammo however, gave them a handicap which most gallente pilots were less then willing to use. the new changes have made the ammo worth using and should appropriately improve the gallente damage/range. any issues regarding poor combat with certain gallente ships should be brought up in a separate thread, and is encouraged. if you believe the mechanics of the hybrid guns or ammo needs to be tweaked, post it here for all to see. i'm sure the csm, and ccp are watching."
"how do you figure that? that's right, you can't. because you're wrong.you're forgetting all other short range t2 ammo also got changed...wrong. they have not even remotely remedied the sorry state of hybrids, which remain the bona fide poor man's weapon system of eve."
"lol, nose pretty brown eh?every race had their t2 close range ammo boosted..."
"this issue has floated around a long time and i was hoping i could round up some folks on it to really get behind it as an improvement. eve has seen drastic graphic changes in its history (look at the game when it released and you'll realize that some ships really could be uglier!). the recent changes to fighter-bombers made this idea pop in my head initially.the features and ideas link is here: how can we mount missiles?the idea behind missiles is to change their graphic from 'farting' out of the ship's middle to actually launching. my idea is not to have turret-like-launchers as that has two big problems:1) most ships don't have additional hardpoints in their skins for missiles, or none at all! take the drake which has zero hardpoints in its skin, but has silos.2) multiple missiles originating from multiple points on multiple ships (that's a lot for math-challenged folks like me) couldn't possibly be good for the server, especially in fleet battles.so let's take the drake and tempest (because they are easy to refer to): the drake has silos on its sides that are clearly intended to be the missile launchers, being a missile dedicated ship. for our \"not\" dedicated missile-boat, the tempest, it has a nifty big box with two big dots in it...which appears to be about right for launching cruise missiles or torps!the idea: why not change missiles like fighter bombers, or a variation thereof? i personally think it'd be cool if the drake volleys were not one clump of missile being 'poofed' out the bottom, but were (graphically) shown as exploding from the side of ship in a massive salvo that congregates on the target(s). same for tempest: the two missiles (if the ship of course had them) would launch from its side launcher.but what about the math? as we all know missiles are real-time and actually calculate distance, acceleration...so on and so forth. i propose that we upgrade the missile graphics to reflect the ship's actual actions but the math be changed like it has been for fighter bombers, or something similar. if i fire one missile at a time from the drake, the silos will show a missile coming out one at a time (from the silo that corrsponds to f1, f2...etc).the biggest problem with this is that some ships do not inherently have 'launcher graphics' in their skins. an excellent example is the thin caracal, or the raven. these ships would likely need a skin upgrade of some sort to make this idea viable...a whole different kind of monster for devs to tackle. i'd appreciate any ideas on solving this!i'm not calling for a change in missile stats or balancing, nothing of that sort. this is a purely graphic proposal aiming to finally give missiles some love and make them look proper. imagine if turrets only pointed straight on your ship and the bullets flew wherever (like on drones)? would kinda stink...so why do missiles look so boring? not just caldari use or see these weapons, many ships across all races have missiles as potential, if not necessary, weapons.eve is an incredible game for many reasons, one of those being how it looks! we've upgraded so many other graphical features in eve, isn't it time missiles looked as deadly as they are? picture firing salvos off from your ships and i think anyone could agree this would be a great improvement to see in the game. i bring up the fb fix from recently in the hopes maybe this idea could be tied to it? reducing server strain is always a plus, but why not make that reduction look cool too?tl;dr-have missiles launch from the skins of ships-don't make \"turret\" missile-launchers, many ships don't actually have the hard-points to support (see drake)-find a way to implement the fighter-bomber fix, this disconnects the graphics from mechanics allowing missiles to launch from separate silos and look realistic and correct.-problem: how to calculate for defender missiles?"
"does anyone ever remember to support their own idea on the first post? =pwhen posting please remember to click where it says \"check here if you want to give your support...\" near the bottom of the post editor! i see several people have read and stated support, but not actually added to the support counter.edit: i figured people might want to have an idea of what i mean by this launcher graphic so here are some various youtube clips that help give an idea of this mechanic. while most of these videos focus on the propulsion trail of missiles (one of the reasons they look cool of course), they all feature the actual launch. i was unable to find a good \"salvo\" video quickly but i hope this gives an idea of how great missiles could look in eve, and how disappointing their current launch is now."
"best lag fix shouldn't be on page 2 til it gets a blue post."
"and ccp could bring back some older before-lag hunting benefits that eve used to have."
"technically this solution is possible, but it's not 100% clear it would work as intended when hardware is overloaded.if \"bullet time\" slows down to 10 minutes per second, then it's gonna be just as unplayable as it is now.i can imagine such design would require significant rewriting of the base game logic code. it would be massive amounts of work requiring months of development and testing.and if it takes ccp 2 years to fix rockets or change cyno effects, there's just no chance they can do this."
"supported. silly things like these should be fixed long time ago..."
"i believe it used to be possible to do this a very long time ago when logi drones first came out. however, from what i understand it caused many problems with drone behaviour and was just simply removed as a quick fix.i would like to see a \"support me\" command added to the logi drones."
"support"
"not supported, the idea of repair drones, and all remote repair systems, is to reward and encourage co-operative group play. if you want someone to repair you, fly in a gang. oh, and before you say that this would help solo pilots, i run solo pvp 90% of the time, and this proposal still sucks. it would be used mostly by those mission runners who never interact with anyone, eve is an mmo, if you want the befits of remote repping, join a gang."
"the thing is, this gives an advantage to drone-based ships, because they will be able to change what is effectively an offensive facility, into a defensive one. most other ships cannot do that. in my mind it would be balanced if other ships could then shoot themselves with a remote repper that they have in a high slot, thus also being able to benefit from changing something with an offensive facility to a defensive one. maybe i'm wrong, just throwing it out there."
"not supported. might as well let me turn my cap transfer and remote rep batteries on myself, too."
"please make all the time i spent training for a hulk worthwhile."
"make mining more fun, not profitable, but not obnoxious.that's actually fairly difficult to do, but noteworthy.messing with mining inherently is tricky because it is one of the primary bases of the eve economy.support for researching ideas to make mining more engaging, without affecting its profitability.mining is, after all, profitable. if it wasn't...only masochists would do it. eve has every kind, but not that many of this particular type."
"it is indeed already possible to do this. i would say, it's easily countered by a smart bomb team though. or just going very close range on the sentry fleet."
"i think the problem with electronic attack ships has more to do with the requirement to fit a mwd to most any frigate in pvp.mwds still give too much of a speed boost over afterburners, so if you don't fit a mwd to your frigate you get easily run down by larger ships. i think if the difference in speed between ships was less, say 5-10% difference from class to class. it should of course take larger ships longer to reach full speed though. i think then mwds wouldn't be such a \"must have\" and the speed boost on them could be scaled back. i think the ability to warp to any location on the map, with a cooldown of some sort, would also help. getting too far off topic though i think.the point is i think until they tweak base speed / speed booster / warp ability eass will continue to be unattractive."
"fix the little blighters! there should not be more sc's than a form of frigate..."
"give them drone immunity , nearly every cruiser+ have a pack of lights which can tear these efs into piecies way too quickly."
"i support this"
"sentinel: suitonia is right, sentinel is the only flyable eas. hyena: 25% web range increase could help. also give the hyena speed bonus similar to vigil.keres: piece of crap. suffers from known damp impotence.i like the drone bandwidth increase idea.kitsune : stealth nerfed by last ecm adjustments. though still usable.yes, sig radius is a serious issue for all eas."
"i like this.also add an option to lock the camera perspective in a fixed position relative to your ship so that everytime you orbit your target, your view doesn't have to go \"past\" the target. (wasn't sure how to explain it better, but hope it's understood)."
"i really like this idea. it is in-line with my own musings on how to translate a game as beautiful as eve into more than just a sea of red-crosses and a confusing overview, into something more cinematic, without having to sacrifice gameplay effeciency."
"i agree with this."
"what does it matter? ccp got the rlmoniez for the plex anyway. if you take some of those days remaining on your account and sell them for isk or some ship-paint-shop.it doesn't matter to ccp - they already got the rlmoniez - and that's all that counts.so what is the loophole you want to imply here please?if i don't want to play any more i have at the moment a maximum window of inability to pause my account of 30days.what's the problem if that is reduced to 1 day?you can't convert plex into rlmoniez, just use them for game time, buy vanity items/services or sell them for isk."
"this proposal is worthy of my support."
"supported. ccp, where are you? the csm voted for buffing destroyers unanimously last year."
"i notice you mention thrasher...which the op mentioned as the one destroyer not being terrible? i personally have pvp'd a thrasher successfully and you are right in that they carry out their intended role as a fast-frigate killer. the other destroyers don't.support for finding a way to make destroyers worthwhile again.(since the noctis will soon kill them off anyways, except as a poor-man's salvager now.)"
"supported, it is so annoying to board a non passive/boosting ship in space for example a buffer ship in space and suffer a massive shield deficit. i.e my cheap cruiser intercepting stabber relies on a shield buff to keep it alive for long enough yet if i board it whilst in space i only have around 20% of its potential shield and unless i dock which is impossible in some situations or wait for its recharge to charge the shield which would take around 2 days then it is rather nerfed.it's about time they changed this as shield buffered ships are heavily nerfed due to this. the passive recharge only realistically applies to drakes and or possibly onyx's.finally, reduce shield extender bonus nerf! i would much prefer a speed nerf than a sig radius boost on my onyx, making me the size of a battleship isn't cool."
"looks like the topic got derailed a bit...all the op asked for was instant change just like armor. shield-oriented gangs shouldn't be penalized for having a different tank setup. shield values should be changed instantly and brought to 100% just like armor is. that's all there is to it. it doesn't break the game balance anyways, in fact it probably improves it as logistics don't have to blow cap fixing your shield/you don't have to wait for full shields everytime you change system. if you were entering a battle directly from another system, the bonus is significantly smaller as while your recharge goes up (from a higher shield hp from bonus), you don't actually have the increased hp and thus you start the battle with an almost negligible bonus.support."
"quite some time back in the past (before dominion?) when you killed a capsule, very distinctive squishing sound was heard. for some unknown reason it was removed and i feel that even though it is a minor thing, eve is poorer without it.i do not see any downsides to bringing it back. it does not sound like a huge code modification undertaking. the sound file should probably still be available. the logic on when to play it was probably taken care by the client, so it should not add any server-side lag. and one check should not add significant client-side lag either."
"confirming the squish sound was epic. eve is far less epic without it."
"i don't think i played when this occurred but it sounds fantastic"
"also bring back the old jump gate noise. and an updated version of the old cyno effect."
"...eve has sound?"
"?sound has eve..."
"i like this. ^^^maybe not make the bridges easily destructible but say capable of being offlined by exterior factors.\"jb has sustained x amount of dmg and needs to offline to avoid disruptions in the warp field, preventing you from arriving inside-out on accident. better call an interbus, this could take awhile to fix!\"the offline period could be relatively short, but it gives a roaming gang a chance to cause some fuss. the ability to temporarily cripple a jb, before having to fully destroy it (for example its not crippled but 'disrupted' for 10 minutes but then can't be disrupted again for an hour? don't take the numbers literally). this could make black ops ships be potentially more useful too as 'hit and run' vessels."
"option 5: reduce warp speedoption 6:remove session time changers from gatesoption 7:change all low sec into syndicate npc space, low sec rats, no officers, higher ql4 missions & loads of stations/pocketsoption 8: make spawn radius around gate larger by 5-7km (longer distance to travel back to gate so that shiptypes (fast lockers) are usefull again without a 10m gang (3-4people dont catch gateracers exept ****ty fit bc and bs\")option 9:a way to reduce speed to travel between systems, 2-4 mins are really too long to travel"
"i like the idea of having more stuff to shoot in space (infrastructure-wise) that you don't need to bring caps in to kill.why not the idea of being able to deploy multiple stations in a system? now bear with me.all of the stations in player 0.0 right now would become the \"capital\" station and be the only one linked directly to sovereignty. you could then anchor more stations in the system and these would have possibly only 1 smaller rf timer. these new stations could also be destroyed completely and wouldn't switch hands. maybe they could be different sizes as well? give them hp that would not require capitals to kill and you have many more targets to shoot at that doesn't trigger a sov war blobfest.the special anomaly is also a cool idea. if it gets blowed up, your military or industrial indexes go down. cool idea.sections of an ihub thatare permanently vulnerable with relatively low hp also sounds cool. you can incap your enemies upgrades for a short time. they wouldn't be permanently destroyed, but would have to be repped up for the anoms to spawn again. imagine ratting and a roaming gang of 20 comes into system. well now they have something to shoot at instead of moving on because everyone is at a pos. also it encourages those ratters to suit up into pvp ships and get rid of them before they incap your upgrade modules.the multiple station idea is a little out there, granted, but i think that more tactically meaningful things to shoot at in a system for smaller gangs is a good thing."
"no it isn't. as a member of the nc i wouldn't expect you to understand this but if you're competant there isn't any way to have your carebearing operations disrupted for more than 20 minutes or so as a roaming gang passes through your space.supporting the ops idea but not neccessarily the implementation."
"note: this is part one of my 5 things to improve the new player experience post on my blog.the rifter and the thrasher are pretty much the perfect t1 frigate and destroyer for new players. fast, easy to fly, easy to fit, decent dps, decent tank, not too expensive, low skill requirements, what is not to like? the choice of being a minmattar character meant that i could start having fun early on. unfortunately none of the other races has a top-tier frigate or destroyer comes even close. this can be very frustrating for new players and leads a lot of them to give up playing. lets look at them and figure out what could be changed to give players who are not matari something to play with in the first month.amarr punisherthe simple problem with the punisher is that it lacks the midslots to actually tackle anything. i get it that amarr ships are supposed to be armour tanked and slow, but combining that with having to choose between fitting either a propulsion mod or a webifier is not going to work. move a low slot to a mid slot.amarr coercerif a punisher is bad with two midslots, the coercer is useless with only one. again move one low-slot to a mid to give it at least a chance.caldari merlin/gallente tristansplit weapon layouts = bad. this is doubly true for new players as it is for experienced player. a new player climbing into one of these ships is going to quickly realize that they need to train a whole lot more to be proficient at both hybrids and missiles. this should be fixed. give both ships a 3/3 turret/launcher hard-point configuration which ups the dps a bit but more importantly gives more fitting options for low sp characters.gallente catalystis this ship is designed to get up nice and close to an enemy and pound on them with unholy dps? not really, it is too slow to get in range to take advantage of its tracking bonus, has a useless falloff bonus, and no damage bonus. what exactly is this ship supposed to do? swapping the falloff bonus for a 5% per level damage bonus would be a start.caldari cormorantthis ship really can fill one role, long range sniper with negligible dps. in a pack of 30 this is useful, otherwise it is just pointless. i say return this ship to it's caldari roots and give it 7 missile slots and the appropriate bonuses. this makes sense considering that new caldari players are likely to be working on their missile skills. with the rocket buff this might actually work as a awesome platform."
"sure, wish granted.with a snap of my fingers, every race can now train minmatar frigate iv"
"true... for experienced players. i am much more concerned with new players < 1 week old. it is kind of silly to say to a 2 day old character who is training caldari to stop training caldari and go and train minmatar instead."
"keep in mind that one of the reasons the thrasher and the rifter are so good is because all the other frigates and destroyers are weaker.i'm in support of the idea of a constant need for balance in general and frigates and cruisers specifically, but i can't really support these specifics because.. well, i'd rather trust a balance team."
"new players aren't gonna be concerned with which frigate will be the absolute \"best\" or \"perfect\" to train for in the first place. because by the time they get to that point, chances r, they already took 1-2 days to train it anyway."
"posting in a guys my blog thread.anyway, you're approaching the issue from the wrong direction since what the t1 frigate range needs is not a group of rifter clones but for the rifter to be bought back in line with the other racial 'combat' frigates since in its current form it obsoletes every other option ."
"i don't know about your suggested fixes but there are quite a few destroyer threads floating around.i will say that a cormorant that uses missiles instead sounds intriguing.i don't see problems with the punisher since, as a t1 frigate, it makes sense that it has basic problems like all frigates. rifters are not invincible. i do however agree that the mixed setup on the 'primary' t1 frigates for combat, the merlin and tristan, need to be made to be strictly one type of weapon. i would make the merlin a 3 turret ship (like the others) and leave the kestrel as your missile frigate (like the breacher and other 'alternative' frigates). tristan needs to be made strictly turrets since that's what gallente only use on the vast majority of their ships (drones aside of course).got me on what to do on dessies, but someone really ought to consolidate all the threads. maybe their number will tip ccp off to start working on it?"
"i understand the 'nerf something that is too good rather than buff things to match' concept. the issue here is new players. new minmatar players get to have fun with a rifter and then a thrasher while other races just don't have any remotely as good options. making sure that minmatar players shouldn't have any fun as well is not as good game design as allowing all races to have a couple of fun ships to fly early on."
"crap looks; crap bonuses. ccp is screwing with us. again.this vote is for all 5 of my accounts.for a fleet command type ship it sucks.let me guess when the poo releases gas it heals all ships within 200km 50%.great now all we have to do is wait for a fart..... lol"
"the sansha mothership stats changed. you might want to check out the most recent post from ccp ytterbium."
"that was not a troll that was what i thought was a pretty simple way of comparing buffing something strong to nerfing something weak. i still do not understand why the apparent weakness of an individual hull should justify a boost to capital power projection as a whole?"
"while i like some of the changes its still completely awful. they gave it a nid like bonus to energy and shield transfer without increasing the range. giving this ships remote logistics the exact same problem as t3. ****ty range makes it worthlessso that anyone can comment and easily see the new set of stats we are now discussing here is the post by ccp chronotis"
"it's... weird. i'm on back-of-the-napkin level math here, but this means that it has a thanny's drone limit while it will do twice the dps of a nyx. its fighters/bombers will also be hugely more survivable and much easier to recall. all of which points to a combat role... but it's shield tanked and doesn't have the ability to fit an effective rr shield setup. hell, its shield rep range is so low that it can't even rep pos shields on a large. its gang link suite makes it able to rock a bunch of links, but it's still hugely eclipsed by any titan fielding links and, indeed, by any command ship or t3. i just don't get it. what is its role supposed to be, exactly?"
"there should be something that can be done with an abandoned pos in a wh. even if its a matter of running a codebreaker and a decryptor on it for like 100 positive hacks. so you can unanchor it yourself and go sell it or whatever.seems silly for it to just sit there forever waiting to be blown up."
"posting to confirm this idea has never been suggested before."
"i've always wondered why ccp doesn't just make pos and structures deteriorate after a certain amount of time from not being powered (and therefore not maintained?). think about anchored containers: 30 days before they disappear unless you access them.30 days is likely too short for something like pos's and their structures, but i think the concept could apply. maybe 60 days? instead of \"disappearing\" though (which would really suck, trust me i know) have them 'deteriorate' at say a rate of 1% on ehp down to like 75% or even as low as 50%. down to nothing seems silly as i do think you should have to destroy something, even if abandoned, but it would make this task much less painful. from an rp perspective (no i don't rp) you see derelict stations all the time in missions, even in regular space, so they shouldn't just disappear.all in all, add a penalty for just abandoning the pos. if you won't take care of it, why should ccp? have them slowly break down to a point where they are still mildly difficult to deal with (in case someone wanted to return to said pos?) but capable of being removed by the local power. wh and hisec suffer this the worst because of the difficult of employing capitals."
"supporting my own idea - cause i would have made some isk."
"i love itat level 1: allows the use of the sheild colapse buttoneach subsiquant level incresses the speed of regenration of a collapsed sheild by say 2% per level?"
"as a sidepoint, this has been proven to be false. damage that leak trough get applied to both armor and shield (so double damage) rather then being applied to armor instead of shield.as for the proposal, i like it. this could help shield caps in the almost exclusively armor capital fleets, while armor caps can get an armor buffer and resists and tank properly with that and then use all its mids for utility (cap recharge, ewar etc), while shield tankers that are currently pretty ****ed could fit a shield buffer and collapse their shield until their armor is drained, then turn the shield back on while armor is repped to full and then give it an another go.currently, armor tankers can benefit from getting shield reps, even if they're unresisted, since they atleast get some hp back and it can applied while their main buffer is still intact, but a shield tanker must loose his entire buffer before he can get anything out of armor rr.edit: forgot to click support"
"i really like this idea: the ability to offline shields for a moment, take a tactical hit to your armor (ever wanted that dcu to be more useful?), then pop them back on with a little more health.balancing this ability could be really tough but supported for research!"
"step 1: armor tank a ship.step 2: go into combat, wait for shields to hit ~20-30%.step 3: turn off shields. armor tank.step 4: turn on shields if tank is stressed/shields are full/'oh $#!7'.step 5: repeat steps 2-4. diaf as necessary.in all seriousness, it's not a bad idea, i just don't see it truly offering any massive benefit to anyone other than people armor tanking bc's+. they get a free layer of recharging ablative armor. although it has potential for people to come up with odd 'dual-tank' fits. ex/kin shield, em/therm armor, and then they choose which to use based on what's being thrown at them. could be interesting."
"if you have a shield extender and shield rigs (both of which increase sig radius) will collapsing your shields lower you sig radius?"
"ok so we are geting rid of learning skills becouse they dont give instant gratificaiton? becouse really thats what this is about. new players dont want to train these long boring skills becouse they dont give instant gratification. however they do get trained becouse in the long run, it will maximize your performance. so since we are geting rid of boring stuff does that mean we are going to get rid of other boring stuff? how about l v skills? those are long and boring too. geting rid of those will defenatly help in geting instant gratification. ok thats all just silly talk, but it does show a point. and i do understand why they are getting removed. new players felt they had to train somthing that gave them no fun right away. it would take over a year before they started seeing a return on the investment. and thats even if they stuck it out a year, becouse all that learning training made the game boring so they left. now i am one of those people who trained his learning up to 5/5. i felt this was a strategic move on my part. i decided to suffer now so i could enjoy more later. and i did my suffering, now its time for my enjoyment. and now i learn that i did not have to suffer threw that, i just had to wait and i could have goten the enjoyment for free. it just makes me feel like i am getting cheated. now i know people are saying but you got to enjoy all that xtra learning speed. which is true in once sense. however those who did not, got to enjoy that new shiny ship while i was still flying around my rust bucket. and in some cases its even worse. this character had just finished geting learning to 5/5. and has not even begun to reap the benifiets of those points. infact since he was not optimized for these skills he would have been beter off training somthing that was not learning. so i think we deserve more then just the skill points back. even a 1:1.1 return would mean somthing to me. so instead of just geting back my 5,376,000 sp back, i should get back 5,913,600. or somone who only trained to 2m sp would get 2.2m sp back. just sort of a sorry for that sucky training you had to do."
"that's not why learning skills are being removed. have you even read the dev blog?"
"this, except i already have presence 5 :vit wasn't that long a train either, even on an achura. +5s ****ing own.also, supporting this thread anyway to keep up the rage. and because i will have 1 less perc. edit:"
"the devblog clearly states that the removal doesn't negatively affect most eve players, and the few it does by an incredibly marginal amount.i went through learning, heck almost all new players do! i'm not going to get close to the returns veteran pilots will but something is better than nothing, and now i actually want to get my alternate account because guess what?i can actually start using it on day 1!!!incredible, i know!learning skills killed the game for new players, or came close. being able to train those basic skills to lvl 1 for webs, ab's, shield and armor tanks...all in the first day mind you...will help new players immerse quickly and easily into eve and enjoy it! the best part? after the well thought-out process of tutorials and career agents, folks won't then be told \"by the way...you need a month of learning skills if you have any intention of making this game worthwhile...\" but instead that they can start aiming straight for that cruiser (or titan for the over-achievers, hehe), freighter, or whatever their goal is. eve is about goals, not prerequisites, and learning was a prerequisite that killed time and fun: items that make a game suck and not worth playing.not supported. good call ccp!"
"not supported."
"not supportedlearnings were a dumb design which sapped peoples will to log in at the worst possible time.anyone with half a brain and access to evemon understood that you had to train at minimum 4/3 and ideally 5/4 if you planned on playing the game for any length of time. in order to maintain an effective learning speed.further those players who aren't the types to play evemon and forums online ended up screwed in the long run because in many cases they didn't know that they needed those learnings i can only imagine how many people quit due to that.player retention is all about hooking someone in the first month of play. that's why all mmo's scale exponentially. you want to give lots of little rewards early in the game to get people hooked for the long term. learning skills broke this by forcing smart players to defer that gratification that leads to attachment. meaning that they were far more likely to not sub when they learned that they'd have to go weeks or months not gaining more actual ability to play the game.most skills (read all but learning) add capabilities and options to your character. these capabilities and options are the little dings that generate attachment to the game. later other factors will pick up the slack social interaction, goal attainment inertia and cause retention. but at the beginning it's all about the little rewards that trigger the emotional satisfaction reactions in our brains.ideally you want to hook a player before he figures out that it's going to take over a year to train to be an truly effective bs pilot. rewarding players who are willing to defer gratification is all fine and dandy once you actually hook them. but you have to generate enough emotional attachment in the first place to make such deference palatable. i myself spent the majority of my first year of playing on a int/mem remap. because i wanted to get all my support skills up to what i considered par and so i could maximize my training time by spending the majority of my time training skills at optimal speed.that deferment would still have existed if learning skills had never existed the only change would be not having to spend a couple months training skills that added no additional capability to my character and as such generated no additional attachment.there are still plenty of opportunities for players to affect their learning speed. implant, remaps and proper planning. for example a buddy of mine who started playing a couple weeks before me has 7mil fewer sp, most of that difference wasn't created by the 1.5mil in learning sp difference but rather because he never remapped and haphazardly trained skills as he needed/wanted them rather than planning an optimal training plan in advance. so while i was training skills at 2000+ sp/hr(mostly 2600) he was training at 1750.learning skills were a bad design, because they defeat the entire purpose of early game play which is hooking the player and generating an emotional attachment to their character. further due to the nature of the skill system not training them at the beginning put those players at a permanent disadvantage to those who trained them.so i say good riddance to bad design."
"counter-support"
"why do people keep ranting about the plex for remap stuff? it's not happening. ccp released a statement saying that they will not be introducing a mechanic to use a plex to remap your characters attributes. nor will they ever in the future. it has been tabled for discussion.the only things that they are thinking about doing more with plex's is cosmetic things that have no impact on actual gameplay mechanics. stuff like maybe a skin for your ship, or stuff in incarna. the microtransactions will be there, as they should be for eve to remain competitive, but they will not hinder or help anyone in any other way than using them to either play for free, or get free money. it's not like they are going to release a super wtfpwn ship that you can only buy with a plex (which honestly wouldn't have any impact anyway because you can buy isk with them) and they most certainly are not doing the remap idea.as for the op, are you serious?"
"supported, because it's really hard to wait extra 5 days before you train anything useful, so you have to sit in the station... go out... turn off the game... i really like when i'm playing my old nes and then i put my controler away and just look at the tv, now that's a challenge!learning skills are hard, and it's fun to see newbies have no idea about their existance, because they're never mentioned in the tutorials. i think it adds alot of challenge into the game."
"you're telling me that the defense for learning skills is that they make you wait to play the game? how does waiting 5 days add challenge? i see frustration maybe...this right here is why learning skills are useless and need to go."
"the directional scanner have a default range of 10 000 km and 180<U+FFFD>.you know you can change them to 2.147... (14.3au +-) and 360<U+FFFD>, but news players don't know that.playing with range and angle are not a things a new player will do, it's something for experienced player.so having the max values as default would be way better.it will take a few seconds for the devs to change that.it will save you a few seconds for each new character you create. and maybe avoid you a loss because you forgot to do it.it will save way more for new players."
"i support my own topic"
"you know what'd also be nice?having a slider for distance. doing ((15 * au_distance) + \"0,000,000\") in my head is a pain in the ass.although to be honest, what we really need is an entire intel overhaul.."
"the escort carrier: a t2 battleship logistics ship that can use fighters.carriers are damn fine support ships that can pack a punch and grant logistical support at the same time. out in null sec and even in w-space, they're a cornerstone of fleets everywhere. with the introduction of incursion, empire corps are finally going to have a reason to form fleets of their own to take on sansha's nation. in empire space, though, carriers and other capital ships are unwieldy and impractical, since they are unable to use jump gates and cannot even enter high sec. for those in empire space, the only other option for fleet support is to step down to the cruiser class logistics ship, which may not be the most ideal option for taking on the bigger sansha fleets.the escort carrier will fill the hole and provide a battleship class logistics ship that will fit perfectly with the new incursion content. being a battleship class ship, it'll still be able to use jump gates and enter high sec, and would be a great boon to empire space corporations. i'm sure many 0.0 corps will find unique uses for it, as well. with the introduction of black ops ships, capital ship functions no longer were just the realm of the big boys. here's a great opportunity to extend that school of thought.the escort carrier-tier 3 battleship hulls. rokh, hyperion, maelstrom, abaddon, respectively.-target cost of 750 mil - 800 million isk. this puts it slightly higher than the average marauder and black ops ship, which, given the capability, seems like a fair price.-drone bay and bandwidth capable of fielding five fighters. this ship will not be able to fit drone control units, and will not receive a bonus in the escort carrier skill to control more fighters.-very limited or no weapons hardpoints. this is a support ship. the high slots will be used for remote repair/shield transportation.-tanking ability should be good, but not over the top. much like the logistics ships and carriers it's related to, it should be able to handle some damage.key differences from the carrier-jump gates and high sec. this ship is mainly designed to combat sansha's nation in empire space. it's a battleship class ship, and will be able to move freely throughout new eden's stargate network.-likewise, it will not have it's own jump drive. let's not combine this thing's capability with the black ops to make a super t2 battleship, shall we?-no hanger bay or fitting services. it just seems like too much for one battleship-sized ship to be capable of.-no triage modules. see above. let's leave this one for the capital ships.-fewer fighters. the number will be capped at a possible 5 instead of a possible 15. any additional ideas/feedback would be great. thanks!"
"you realize 5 fighter bombers put out more dps against a capital than a carrier can right?"
"ah, yep. i screwed that up. i forgot that fighter-bombers are the realm of supercarriers only. this is what i get for being an empire pilot myself.amended accordingly. thanks!"
"just have 4 logis in your fleet and you'll be fine."
"this idea is fresh and new... owait!not supported1) see approximately 230239 threads regarding topic that existed before you posted this one.2) sansha incursions were balanced against what pilots currently have available to them. so there is no new need for this ship type."
"since a fighter is (roughly) the size of a frigate...how do you explain fitting 5 of them into the drone bay of a bs?not supported, just bring along logistics ships."
"fighters are cruiser sized drones. fighter bombers are bs sized drones. check their ehp if you want to figure out which tier they are"
"no"
"or you might just want to use your eyes, and then you will see that fighters are frigate size. they are just given that ehp to survive on the battlefield.i support this idea, even before i heard about incursions."
"that's funny, because if you use your eyes you will see a revelation is in fact larger than a wyvern but a wyvern is too large to dock and a revelation is not. however if you listen to the dev panel from last year you will hear a dev clearly say that fighters are cruiser class drones"
"not empty quoting."
"you do realize that this ship would be more expensive than a real carrier right? that's just weird"
"not only that but the dps of 5 fighters are pathetic. it would be better to have ten drones and a drone dmg bonus. also the training involved to get both fighter and t2 battleships, you might as well get a carrier. there are so much better uses for the teir 3 t2 versions. give them a jump drive and they are escort ships or a command bonus and they are flag ships.leave the fighters to real carriers anyway, your reward for training capitals and flying in dangerous space just like x-large guns. if they were to release an escort carrier i would prefer it be a new model that doesn't waste the teir 3's. i think an orca like ship concept would be better. also since it is the obvious step in between capitals it should be availible sooner then carriers like at battleship 4 but the escort carrier would take atleast 2-3 weeks to get to 4 with a slew of other required skills to fly. in total skill time it should be the orca of combat ships and to throw in a little twist the drone bonus ony works on your racial drones. meaning a reason to train up different races. * 200000-300000ehp tank t2 fit t1 rigs* can feild 1 extra drone per level* to big to effectively mwd. like the orca* a small rr bonus and a 10% drone dmg bonus* very low speed and align time, so they have to commit to fights.* 800-1000m drone bay* 350-450 million* orca sized matenence bay* can not enter level 4 missions* 250 bandwithsee more practical, powerful, useful and it has to commit to fights instead of assigning fighters.but is it really needed."
"my alt's training for an orca, and for mining ops this would be a great addition to help keep ore apart."
"omg this idea is brilliant! there is rly no need to load the whole map to just configure your autopilot."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"c-c-c-combo breaker.it doesn't need to be a number. even 4 different symbols would be fine, if they change to a logical pattern."
"extensively i agree with you, but keep in mind there are modules with meta levels greater than just 4; i believe some go as high as 9 or even 11. roman numerals may work also, but a small number would probably be the best solution. i'd also be in favor of sorting modules in the market ui by meta level instead of alphabetically.supporting my own thread."
"yes.actually, as it is now there are tech i, tech ii, tech iii, faction, and officer mods. why not give a colored border around the exterior of the box that corresponds to these tech branches and then define the meta level inside of that as if the color was the roman numeral? then re-define the meta levels to make room for 5 tiers within each branch.no color with iii in the corner is meta 3.yellow with i in the corner is meta 6.green with iv next to it is meta 14.blue with ii is meta 17.purple with v next to it is meta 25.now you not only have a decent and well know way of identifying better stuff but you create room for expansion of tech 2 and tech 3 manufacturing/invention."
"the introduction of planetary interaction (pi) gave eve players the ability to manufacturer many components that were once seeded by ncp's or drops in missions. however, electronic parts seems to be been forgotten. this trade item is needed to produced tech 2 modulated miners and mobile warp disruptors as well as the ice harvester. can electronic parts be manufactured by pi, or abolished from the tech 2 manufacturing requirements?"
"just thought of something else that would be good for the lp store:bpcs for all containers"
"i like the idea of faction haulers and an lp shop related to transportaion. supported"
"all items in eve have a meta level, almost. faction ammo (both hybrid and projectile) and frequency crystals along with faction auto-targeting missiles, citadel cruise missiles, and citadel torpedoes do not have meta levels. faction cruise missiles, heavy assault missiles, heavy missiles, light missiles, rockets, and torpedoes all do have meta levels. one caveat may be that auto-targeting missiles, citadel cruise missiles, and citadel torpedoes do not have tech 2 variants. would the meta levels need to be added if the tech 2 variants are added?the hybrid and projectile ammunition and the frequency crystals do have tech 2 variants, which all have meta levels of 5.how does the lack of a meta level affect the invention of tech 2 ammunition? for tech 2 missile invention, the faction missiles provide a boost to the chance. is there any boost of chance given when using faction ammunition, or are the eve players just wasting their inventory?the ideal solution would be to populate the meta levels for the faction ammunition. inventors can then use their faction inventory with confidence. the meta levels on the auto-targeting and citadel missiles can wait until the tech 2 variants are introduced, provided they are not then forgotten.(t)hank(s)"
"as far as i know all items have meta levels...just not all are published in-game.evehq shows them nicely in various forms if you where to use that tool.now if i'm wrong... well i'd be surprised as i don't recall seeing a blank meta level for 95% of the items tied to ship fits."
"can you explain what you mean by 'granular' ?"
"hi i was wondering if ccp have any plans to deal with pos's in space that have been put there put have no shield on them.now this may seem a minor thing but if the game play was the same as the cans ie if the pos has been put there and no shield on it,it should be given 30 days after which time it becomes destroyed by the elements of space just like the wrecks and cans.this would make people buy more pos fuel and keep the moons clear of pos's that have been left there and not getting used.thank you."
"ccp does not have any plans to deal with offlined pos' even those from corporations where no one has logged in years. best bet, gather together some friends and bash it, or pay some mercs to do it for you.edit because scrape is a bad word."
"well hey if they are working on new forums then hooray! seems simple enough."
"if your eyes are going blind because of the sun, support this proposal!"
"i like it. as somone who can only play for only a few hours a day i would welcome the change. i do use more then one agent to get around the faction missions but that seems like a bad game mechanic to have to do that. plus it would be nice if we had some more missions to run and/or make them more exciting."
"supported in principle.in particular, i always decline missions involving low security (i would only lose my ship and fail the mission) or governments (unless the faction standing loss due to \"combat - ship kill\" is small enough to be negligible).additionally, i always bring a combat ship and a hauler with me to any new mission base i go to so that i can handle both encounters and couriers, but it is a little bit of a hassle, even in highsec; i imagine that this is an even bigger hassle in lowsec/nullsec, but i have no experience with this."
"tbh i have the urge to kill a kitten every time some char suggests use other agents to get around the anti faction missions,i would support a change to the faction missions in respect of;choosing to decline faction missions (ie anti gallente, caldari, amarr and minmatar) 'without' affecting your agent standingits political and some people dont want to get involved nor should they have to be and be able to declinewhy should i choose another agent or faction to counter the faction ones (retrospective question btw)supporting a change to faction missions"
"theres already a button to increase font-size"
"as i understood it the incursion feature is not in its final stages for deployment but it has been tested on sisi some. those tests revealed many great ideas and flaws. this post seeks to address though, so please don't pull the \"you're just speculating\" argument and try to actually think on the effect incursion could have.again, incursion is in development and you'd be rather foolish to assume that ccp isn't still looking for potential ideas for its initial deployment (sansha) and its future versions, if any, as the op suggests. this idea of incursions does indeed have great potential so there is no harm in trying to pave a player opinion of it.one problem: this post really ought to be in features and ideas since it doesn't quite have a direction, only the prompt to find one. the fw idea is good, but not fully formed. keep getting opinions though! if you don't talk about it, ccp doesn't know what you think!(i'm sorry, but they can't read minds or my missions would reset as soon as i cursed.)"
"hello, i wanted to place a topic in the game, should ccp add the hard rare hand me out gifts, to change it around to its been in game for years, in to faction drops ?"
"so i have to \"return the redeem items\" in game before doing the transfer?"
"yes."
"thx,worked all good pls close this"
"yup, the page is intended just for the things that csm does as a group, not for individual activities. individual csm members can always make a wiki page for their characters (which some of us already have done) and add information about their personal csm activities there if they so desire."
"its not important if hes guilty.. its important we got an execution? lol"
"funny how she hasn't listed ccp under her 2010 employment history on her cv. i guess she wouldn't want a potential employer calling ccp asking about her previous employment with them... oh wait, nevermind."
"strategy/diplomacy > tactics =) as it should be! sadly knowledge of \"lag mechanics\" often becomes more important then actual tactical skill :("
"<3 ccp.best thing since rig changes!"
"plex for remap would be cheasy lame. id almost feel like im playing runequest.. next thing will be plex for 500k skillpointsor plex for +5% tracking for a month? lolmost ppl i know feel the same.. so i think its more a minority thinkin this would be good for eve.i support \"remap\" objects created by players and useable every 6 months or something.luckily this degradation of my fave game isnt going to happind <3"
"the only benefit from \"removing local\" would get the mission runners from high sech in npc corp.i really don't want for some players to benefit from that over others.probes you say ? some anomalies can be found with the on board scanner, no need for probes.so, what i'm reading here it's qq from the covops afkers.removing local it's an extra weapon for covops cyno. why should they get that extreme advantage ?!i was talking about 0.0, not low sec or high sec."
"remove local from -0.5 and lower imo.. maybe have a delay that scaled with true-sec."
"you deserve to be hot dropped for that horribly structured post."
"wait.. so the cloakers are complaining about the afk cloaker effect now? while being afk? but they're still upset that people are..what the **** am i reading"
"so it seems some people think that the learning skills add 'complexity' to eve. no, not really. they just add a timesink. i've been playing for 3 years, so i'm not quite an 'old and bitter vet', but i've got 3 accounts, one of which does have all learning skills at 5. you know what? i'm glad they took them out. as it's been stated time and time again, learning skills put new people off of eve, because they were told that these skills would save them days, months, of training time down the road. so instead of training up skills to be able to do something other than noobship mine, they trained learning. then they got bored and left. not because of the complexity, but because of the learning skills.and forgive me if i'm wrong, but last time i checked ccp wasn't listed as a non-profit organization. they can be passionate about the game, but still want to make money. and you should want them to make money too!more money = more budget = more staff / spiffy anti-lag hardware/software = more new features / people available to review and fix old features / quality stuff = better eve.edit: just noticed i necroposted, but that shows how often i post on the forums. : /"
"please dont turn my eve into runequest. plex/timecode(irlmoney) <-> isk is bad enuff."
"yay for dead horses!"
"someone have a link for the old video effect ?jsut saw the current on sisi and well... even without seeing the old one i'm pretty sure i understand why you're crying"
"if you want to see the old cyno effect again play zombie mode in black ops !"
"i suppose i should have included the math but to humor you, if you were to compare using the optimals and falloffs of the 3 turrets from each race in evemon, you'll be able to determine the guns strengths, here let me post some numbers to give an idea of what i'm trying to say: optimal range: heavy neutron blaster2:3600m - 425mm howitzer2:2400m - mega pulse laser2:12km accuracy falloff: heavy neutron blaster2:5km - 425mm howitzer2:9600m - mega pulse laser2:4kmwhen you stack the numbers you'll see it doesn't matter what the size of the gun is, the variables are quite balanced when you shift up or down between the sizes. if you look at the vagabond it may get 12km with opt and af combined on its auto cannons, which is 4 km more then gallente blasters, but the gallente receive a higher damage multiplier giving the blasters there edge. the damage mod on the artys is mostly alpha, if you look, you'll see the minmatar are the poorest dps ship in extended battles due to there rate of fire on there artys. there auto cannons also have a very poor opt and a slightly less af on there auto cannons compared to the gallente.the issue i can see with the gallente hac class would be its inability to run around like the vagabond, had it received a speed bonus, most gallente pilots would excel and they would be worth flying. before i forget about the amarr hacs, they have crazy range, and the reason for this is of course that they are not intended to run around, they are a sniper race ^^ they are also prone to cap issues, which balances its high damage and range.this is good, they were handicapped just like gallente ammo, the gallente javelins and void munitions upgrades make them suitable for combat again.keep in mind i am a gallente pilot, i believe the source of most gallente frustration is in the deimos, it is in need of a serious buff, as is the drone damage on the domi. i encourage someone to start a thread about it as i am not very good with those kinds of things."
"exactly that though i think the damage boost to blasters should be rather big on medium and large weapons so a blaster boats can catch up the damage done to them while they where being shot at while getting in range in the time they still have till they die also the speed of gallente ships needs to be buffed a little too just a little i thinkeven though it would make sense for gallente having the weapon with the shortest range to have the fastest ships but but duno"
"10 minutes = 60000% speed change = 600 * 3000 ships = you are upset it might take 10 minutes per second with 18,000,000 ships in one system? holy math, mr. slippery slope guy. percentages are what, first grade?as for the development time, your failure at math is going to make me fairly certain you have no idea what coding entails or how it actually works. having done it, i know well how what seems like a monumental change can be done in two or three lines, and some tiny edit would break the code. if you aren't staring at the source code, development arguments fail.and as with anything in eve player suggested, it'll take time to go in."
"signed"
"i remember training for them when i had like 5 mil sp in total thinking this is gonna make my tank so good! :d"
"that's a bit different. drones are autonomous and self contained outside the ship. they don't draw resources or power from the ship to work. once outside the ship, if they can heal another ship, they could heal your own. iow, the comparative logic is faulty.i'm sure you already know this though, i was just saying, cheers."
"no, it isn't and you've drawn a distinction without a difference. using resources/what have you is not what's at issue, it's the fact that in order to apply remote effects such as repair drones or reppers, you need to be able to target something and direct the remote effect. just because people would like to self-target with their drones isn't a reason that the remote drone effect should become a local effect. that makes as much sense as saying \"once your energy transfer array is engaged, it might as well be directed at your own hull.\""
"drones don't have to be directed to a target."
"describe the process of directing drones onto a ship that they don't autoaggro onto."
"how many other people did this?on remote reppers etc the name gives the clue as to it's use. on repair drones that isn't the case.i think a note needs to be added to either the drone or skill saying \"repair drones cannot repair your own ship\" (unless this proposal gets in)"
"but drones do target what they want. otherwise they would be useless if you've been jammed. the drones can target what they want independent of the users targeting ability. therefore, from a logical perspective, they should be able to target the owner, even though the owner cannot target himself. the drones have their own sensors, they don't use the owners.however, i still think this is a bad idea, because, as has been said, the rep drones currently push coop play, which i like."
"no, they do not. have you ever launched rep drones and had them decide, on their own, to rep up a fleet member? you are confusing autoaggroing combat drones with targeted remote repair drones."
"but the underlying principle is the same. if your combat drones can auto target, there isn't any logical reason why your rep drones couldn't do the same is there?"
"seems right :)"
"this should have been done years ago.btw supported!"
"aggro=target. unless you want to claim that they do not have to target an enemy to fire upon it.it is the same principal. there is no iu explanation for repper drones to not be able to rep the owner."
"honestly, i'm not sure it should be changed at all. i like it the way it is, and if you don't then find another profession, i could use the elbow room. because mining is the core industry in this game, any alteration could drastically upset the economy for good or bad, just ask ccp's resident economist. at the very least this needs to be well thought out before being implemented.honestly, i find it horrible that you just throw out random accusations based on absolutely nothing. i agree with cid that we should leave it the way it is based on my experience of running many miners at the same time manually, not with macros. i can tell you first hand, that is not boring.if you're bored while mining, there's plenty of things you could be doing at the same time, watching a movie/tv show, listening to an audio book, browsing the interwebs, perfecting your skill que, hack the cia's mainframe... jk."
"despite this, i think these two issues are tied in to the over all problem of mining in eve: mining shouldn't be so easy a bot should do it, and mining's profitability should rely on player skill to a degree.what if, for example, every asteroid was made up of ore+crud? when you go to mine an asteroid, the beam hits the rock and a mini window pops up. using this mini window, in which the player rotates the rock with their mouse, trying to keep the laser on the ore, and away from the crud. each mining laser has a different radius, and different numbers of beam widths', which allow the miner to narrow the beam for those tighter to reach places, and widen it to grab those nice deposits. whenever a cycle finishes, you get some ore, some crud, and some crud encrusted ore. the crud can be ejected wholesale, but the crud encrusted ore can be refined, but at lower yield, at a station. when the surface deposits are gone, you use a 'blaster' to clean a crud layer off of the rock, and see what's under it, and continue from there. blast a rock too many times, or too liberally and you'll lose yield, or even destroy the rock completely without getting any ore. however, the system should be optional- the game will try to 'mine' for you, but it's very poor at doing so, only using one or two beam width settings and more or less bulldozing the surface of the asteroid. naturally, this is easier, but ultimately results in less yield. tl:dr version: i'd like to see a version of mining which, rather than your average mining set up for a barge being striper on high, random meds, and cargo expanders on lows, a system where one might have a barge with a single mining laser, and several 'tool' modules that help you extract the ore indirectly, in the same way a nos, neut, webber, or scrambler indirectly helps pvper make kills."
"supportedalso, roid belts as sites instead of celestials would be a good solution for when ccp fully eliminates downtime, since thats when they respawn (no downtime, how would belts respawn? sites respawn easier)"
"great topic,i would like to add an idea.i thought about adding an interface to mining. not a mandatory one.basicaly, as miner, i'll use a specific scanner/module to study the asteroid i am mining. by zooming inside the asteroid, i would be able to identify 'rivers' of highly concentrated ore inside the asteroid.it is not mandatory for me to active this scanner. i can do classic afk mining, but if i active this scanner, i have to zoom through the asteroid and to identify the good spots of concentrated ore from the other poor one.it requires to active the scanner, to scan, and to select the river when it appears, because it moves and does not visiblee for long. you have to be in front of your computer and catch the river to get better ore...i am sure something like this has been already proposed... you know, it is like oil, petrol >> you have to find the perfect spot to get the best from the ground...about the interface well... it should require to be focus on the screen to cattch the best spots, and also, skills would provide some info on the quality of the river... ok, i am just writing it, but more and more, i feel this thing like a pi interface in the asteroid... not sure it is good though..."
"just out of curiosityif mining is so mind numbingly boring and needs fixingwhy is the hulk so popular and why are there so many people still doing it (looking at the people in this thread)?not saying i do or dont support... just wondering why so many people are terrible at economics."
"you cant remove belts, they are a natural thing. space without belts would just seem completely stupid. however belts are not the pieceful gentle things you get in eve. belts are full of fast moving constantly colliding rocks. i'd rather this element was brought in then moving all mining spots to sites. also site require probing out, not everyone wants to probe crap out. mining ship as it is dont have space for a probe launcher and given you already need an alt to fly an orca to mine any real sizable amount. a second alt for probing its just taking the ****. not everyone has the time and money to train up alts for everything as refining skills alone are bloody years worth of training. leave the belts alone, just making small changes to the system. the idea of making the ore gained more skill based rather than lock and click seemed a good place to start."
"make them more like afs i say the keres for example is just like another ceptor nothing new"
"bump! 0/"
"alternative: sci&indu window, blueprints tab gives you bpc or bpo info. now just allow us to select several of those prints and give us a drag+drop option for the station we're on (or a rclick option like 'move to cargo').>>make the blueprints tab work like the assets window.or if this is dq-querry-heavy stuff and could be implemented into the normal items windows as column.. make it so that if this option is selected the client will give this kind of info only once per day per items/hangar << to avoid causing lag for example in jita or where ever."
"this is a perennial request, and i intend to ask at the december summit if the recent improvements to the inventory system will make it possible to reconsider this."
"shouldn't be a real difficult fix for ccp and it's actually something usefull!!! *gasp* me like.+1"
"ok, i see a loophole now, but ccp can put rules/mechanics in place to plug them.you buy 30x 24hr plex, apply to account in one go.now you want to have your acc lapse in one day. you redeem 29x 24hr plex from playtime.account lapses after 1 day.skill training keeps going.. aso..plug 1:- remove ability for ghost training after account lapses. incentive for above gone.plug 2:- introduce a rule that you must keep at least x days remaining on your account, which can't be redeemed as 24hr plex. with x=30 we'd have our actual status."
"make the plex splitting a miniprofession with a chance of a total failure where the plex gets destroyed."
"plex for pizza please. would also accept plex for chinese or indian, but not thai."
"make it happen."
"i'm pretty sure the economics guy would gave a stroke if this was to be implemented, as at least the latest owner, should be fully reimbursed isk-wise."
"i'm pretty sure only ones getting strokes would be the current owners as ccp does not reimburse based on actual market prices. they have 'npc' prices for everything in database in place. however i highly doubt that when this happens ccp would go for just outright isk injection. i see few possible scenarios1) do nothing - see no evil, hear no evil, ... 2) boost invention to the point it would start competing with the t2 bpo's - ie, positive me and pe levels, high amount of runs so invention costs per item would be negligible, this would effectively obsolete t2 bpo's,3) introducing some mechanics for getting t2 bpo's (new lottery, npc sell orders, some derivative of invention, once per month lottery or any other of gazillion ideas proposed for that over the years), however this would effectively obsolete invention eventually,4) direct removal of t2 bpo's, with some compensation or without it (high run bpc's, some other collectors items, direct isk injection or whatever else proposed over the years)the initial invention relase shaped up to be the t2 bpo killer there were even hints in the dev replies that they seriously considered just converting t2 bpo's into max run bpc's (max run t2 bpc would last roughly 3 years or something like that, plus minus few years depending on bpo), but for some reason when it was actually relased the edge of it was dulled and we ended up with the current system. ccp directed their main attention to t2 building materials instead, that has had some ups and downs, like dyspo printing scandal, current situation with tech and so on.eve is not a fair place, it's not supposed to be, however in my opinion its bad game design to have exclusive content for some people that can not be reached within existing game mechanics. no matter how hard one will work in game his only option for getting one is convincing one of the current owners selling his. no amount of training, skill, teamwork or grind will get you one if current owner(s) are unwilling to sell."
"not supported.if you are willing to get a tec ii bpo, then buy one like many other did.people spend alot of time and meanwhile also a lot of isk to get one. it would be unfair to remove them.(btw. i have no tec ii bpo)"
"i used to be part of the group of players that perceive t2 bpos as unfair and as causing market distortion and therefore call for their removal. it's natural when you start grasping eves market concepts. i am no longer part of that group. i still don't own one (and won't attempt to get one), but now i know that their effect on the market is much less than what some people claim it is, for most items at least. additionally, with increasing player count this effect is getting less meaningful. i'd still have preferred them to not have been introduced in the game in the first place, but removing them now would be even more unfair to the people that spent big isk to buy them. and finally, without t2 bpos the community would lose one of the most popular hate subjects, wouldn't it?"
"so basicly. eve is not a fair place so those who have t2 bpo's should lose them and not be adequately reimbursed because it's not fair they have t2 bpo's.hypocrisy much?ed: clarification."
"no... nuff said..."
"supporting my own topic.surely there are more people that miss it! be rewarded for playing with sound on."
"you're doing it wrong, tip, stay out of range of the guns and use bubbles"
"so i have to roam 0.0 in sniper bs setup? that means any another combat i encounter while roaming will surely mean my quick demiseand how can i stop the enemy from slowboating 2.5 km from jump bridge into pos shields? there are no web bubbles"
"as it currently stands in eve, you can either specifically have your ship fit to deal with a particular enemy ship setup or you can generically omni tank all damage types making sure that the weaker ship damage types are well covered. in the end, while this is good, i think that i could take this idea one step forward with the idea of tactical ship resistance configuration. this would be analogous to star trek where they will \"tune\" their shields in order to withstand attacks from a particular enemy weapon system.this is how i would envision such a system to work- a skill and possibly an advanced skill subset would be created to enable tactical resistance during battle. obviously, the higher the skill is trained, the less of a penalty would be applied in doing so but the penalty would never be eliminated.i can see 1 of 3 scenarios for how the penalty will be applied when using this technique. #1 forcing the ship to account on it's own to tactically resist certain damage types will cause a cap drain or cap recharge penalty.#2 doing so will cause thermal damage to all the modules equipped that pertain to armor or shields depending on what resists (whether armor or shields) are being manipulated.#3 ccp creates and assigns tactical points to every ship in the game, in this instance, the skills trained will help add bonus tactical points to the ship or can pertain to a certain duration that such tactical resistances can be applied.the enemy will be well aware of what tactical resists have been deployed based on a ball of energy that surrounds the ship when using tactical manipulation. blue hue= em red= thermal yellow=explosive dark purple/black = kinetic.the way tactical resists will be applied will work similarly to the way armor/shield resists currently work (except no stacking penalty applied). each resist point will add 1% resist point to the unresisted amount. since the effect is only designed to be limited, it won't be necessary to penalize the other resists.adding this element can add a new dimension to gameplay. industrial ships could be given a new element, for example, that gives them many resist points to help them survive just a bit longer. smaller ships could enable this feature when they are taking heavy damage to increase survivability if only for a set period of time. while i'm sure that this system may have its flaws i'm open to any suggestions of course on improving the idea."
"i gotta agree with this at the point of buffing frigs in general and removing the tier systems i.e. effectively buffing all frigs to about the same level but there has been one mistake made the tristan is not the tier 6 gallentean frigate its the incursus (the tier 6 frigs of all races are those that their assault ships are based on)also blasters railguns and the ships that use them need some work anyway so yeah"
"i fixed the comment on the tier... what i mean is the top-tier frigate. the tristan has one more high and low slot plus more ehp, powergrid and cpu than the incursis. annoyingly if they made the incursis the top-tier ship and the tristan the step below (like the rifter being the top and the breecher being second) it would be awesome. effectively that is what i am trying to accomplish by changing it to a 3/3 layout."
"fine with that as i said i think frigs should get a little more importance than they have now buffing them sure will add to that"
"really the entire frigate range - t1, faction, and t2 - need a fundamental revision from the ground up since there's essentially no reason to ever undock in maybe 75% of the available shiptypes."
"really just need to decrease the speed variation between the frigates. rifter is the rifter because it has a lot more speed than the other frigates. the rifter has 23% more base speed than the punisher and the punisher has 16% more ehp. for frigates, honestly, the differences in speed should be tighter and the differences in tank bigger (as speed is king for those ships).punisher has two midslots. really don't see why it would need another midslot. mwd + point. coercer, on the other hand, you have a point (or not on that ships... get it?).frigate disparity does need to be addressed."
"one, you go t it wrong, the tristan is not the same as the rifter (rifter become af, while tristan becomes sb). you should be thinking of the imicus. which has 3 turrets.two, the punisher is fine. there is no need to chose.three, not everyone wants a cookie cutter experience. if they want the cookie cutter, then can cross train to get it.four, the coercer is not useless. maybe less useful in pvp than the thrasher, but not useless. only a fool would think of a possible enemy ship as useless.five, split weapon layout is how the caldari are for the most part. you change that and you go against the iu.six, ok you are right on the cat, she is slow for a blasterboat.seven, i would love the cormie to have 7 missile slots. like a mini drake."
"/drools"
"those of you who have played eve for more than 3 years probably remember what implant prices used to be. back than 3 point implants were very expensive and that is when lg (2 point) hg (3 point) implants were created, they were created in line with what majority could afford.now days 3 & 4 point modifier implants are dirt cheap with 5 being also affordable, so the old equation is outdated.i'm proposing bringing high grade pirate implants in line with current implant market and making it at least 4, low grade pirate implants 3.summary:bring high grade from 3 to 4 point modifierlow grade from 2 to 3 point modifier"
"imo if your going to change performance enhancers then you should make them independent of attribute enhancers. not supported."
"while i'd love it if my slaved-up nyx alt didn't have to sacrifice training speed, i also think that the boost from pirate implants offsets the training speed that's lost.not supported."
"same, my main has a +5 implant set, hg slaves and hg crystals. the +5's are nice but tbh i only sit in that clone if i'm going out of town. yeah i lose a few days of skill training per month by sitting in the pirate implants but they grant such a huge combat bonus that it's well worth it. not supported."
"you can be either really smart, or a badass, not both."
"supporting my own topic.my proposal, is to have it more in line with today's implant prices. 1 point doesn't change a whole lot."
"i will agree with ccp, it follows the same logic of most of the sansha ships: a lot of interesting bonuses, but a general \"worse than\" theme."
"this seriously needs to get looked into. i hope the csm makes this a priority issue as it keeps getting raised."
"supporting for the (minimum) 3rd timeop, please search the forums a bit first, posted many times beforemostly people started complicating thingsjust make anyone able to unanchor a tower after 1 to 3 months without fuel"
"i've been a strong supporter of this feature for years. you be able to turn on and off your shields whenever you want. i'd even take it a step further, let us set shield strength. 0% 50% or 100%"
"so many good ideas, this would actually really help active armor tanks, which is why i agree!"
"i think this was a troll gone wrong tbh supported anyway"
"never thought of it like that before. supported."
"this... seems logical."
"needed to bump and also got an idea.. just add an thumbs up/down counter to each and every comment/suggestions and you get a quality assurance system.list 3-5 best and 1-2 worst at the top and you're good to go."
"i don't know about you guys, but i've got 4.7m sp in learning skills and i can't wait to reassign them! how is it \"unfair\" that they're \"leveling the playing field\" so to speak? that means everybody will train skills at the same time (give or take depending on how you spent your allocated attributes), and those veteran players that have trained them with the long term in mind will see their long term goal 3 months' training time or more closer.in short, yeah i spent a month, 2 months, even 3 months training them and that sucks, but i'm getting it all back, so why should i care?"
"just as the title says, show what implants were fit on the pod on the pod kill mails. it is simply time to do it and you know it."
"sure, why not."
"again, a f&i post, not a real proposal.also i marked the part which ccp stated already isn't 'simple'.source:"
"you are confused. i am not saying the implementation part is simple. i am saying that it is time for the pod mails to show what implants were in. i am saying enough with the theorizing on how it would affect combat, how it would affect the decision to pod someone or not to pod. people will pod if they get the chance then like they do now.now about my red text, well, if you don't like it you can always get a mono-chrome monitor and use that. problem solved."
"mea culpa. but i think the anti-implant-in-podkillmail positions had been more about the fear of more useless e-peening. and as you can take from the quote.. if ccp has to querry the db for that it won't happen - no matter how much 'simply time it is'. i got the blank your monitor add on for ff, so it's really a non issue for me.. but you might consider others besides the unimportant me, so that you don't come over as a moronic brat that gives a ****"
"can the e-peening actually get worse than it already is? it would add to the pvp (player vs. player) experience of the game imo (in my opinion). when a ship dies, very rarely does it show ten drop/destroyed items or less. ten is the most a pod mail would have to show. how much more work would that really be?besides, it would be worth it don't you think?"
"not supported, remove killmails instead so ppl will be less stat obsessed and may actually fight for the fun of it rather than gheyblobbing/ganking/etcetc"
"this.aditionally this would cause pirates to dishonor pod ransoms even more often than they do now, meaning less people in low sec, meaning more whining from pirates that people should be forced to go to low sec, meaning even worse forums. so against it."
"class doesn't have the same meaning as size. we are talking about size here and the models are definitely fighter sized."
"or it's because they simply didn't want to make huge drone models. there are several occasions in the game where something supposed size is less than its rendered size. doesn't mean they arent."
"so you never looked at a fighter from close up? because if you did you could see the single person pilot."
"i'm not opposed to an escort carrier class, but your proposal is screwed up. first of all, you do realize that a full sized carrier only costs 650m isk atm right? so you're vastly inferior mini carrier actually costs more. a 300-400m isk price tag would be more appropriate. recycling the tier 3 bs models is also a bit lame. new models should be made instead.as for tanking, i'd make them mini carriers. they would use capital class modules but wouldn't be able to use as many. so for the mini archon you would have 1x capital self rep (as opposed to 2), 1x capital remote armor rep (as opposed to 2-3), 1x capital energy transfer (as opposed to 2) and no triage ability. i would allow the use of 5x fighters (that's 500 dps at max skills for the uninformed).and as said, this has been brought up 10k times already. but hey, we finally got a dedicated salvage boat after 3+ years of asking for one, so maybe in another year or two we'll get an escort carrier."
"it was hard for me to put the appropriate thing into the title so i'll explain here. an example would be caldari cruiser. it requires caldari frigate l4 to train. at current, you have to wait until caldari frigate l4 is fully trained until you can add caldari cruiser to the que. my proposal would be to allow you to add, once there is room, caldari cruiser to the que after caldari figate before caldari frigate is completed. caldari cruiser wouldn't start until after frigate was finished, but you could already have it in the que waiting instead of having to wait for it to finish to add cruiser.it doesn't make sense to me that you can add the next level of a skill to the que after the previous level but not the next skill dependent on a different skill. either way, it won't begin until after the prerequisite is trained."
"no injecting skills you don't have prereqs for, and for this to work, you'd have to be able to do just that."
"the current description for gallente drone specialization states: \"specialization in the operation of advanced gallente drones. 2% bonus to advanced gallente drone damage per level.\"after doing some testing and crunching some numbers, i realized that this skill doesn't apply to the garde ii. in retrospect, this makes sense, since the tech 2 sentry drones don't require the racial drone specialization skills. however, the description can be misleading, since a reasonable person might assume that it applies to tech 2 sentries, since they can be thought of as \"advanced\" drones.i therefore propose that the descriptions be changed to the following (inserting the appropriate race into each of the four descriptions):\"specialization in the operation of advanced [racial] drones. 2% bonus per level to the damage done by drones that require [racial] drone specialization. specifically, the [racial] tech 2 light scout drones, medium scout drones, and heavy attack drones only.\" removed an erroneous appearance of the word \"gallente\"."
"supporting 22) above, and as well:23) allow ship cargoholds to be opened inside corp hangars as well - why move them to personal hangar first (assuming i have the right to do so anyway)24) allow items to be repackaged anywhere"
"this is not an idea proposal about what to actually make the ship into, this is simply a proposal to motivate devs to get moving on a t2 varient of the tier 3 bs's."
"my idea would be to make them sige able dps monsters ie mini dreads they would have a sige module that consumes a certain fuel and gives them maybe 100% to weapon damage and range(maybe even more range duno)50% more resists that though would have to stack with all modules so they don't get a 99% percent and thus almost impossible to kill more resits are imho better than just a rep bonus or a hp bonus that would somehow make no sense for armor shipsmaybe it could also add a bit to sensor strength scan resolution target range and all those stats i think that it should not get any tracking bonus so it still stays vulnerable to smaller ships and thus has to be defended by smaller shipsthe sige module should i think not make the ship immovable like for dreads and carriers but make it impossible to warp use propulsion modules (mwd ab) or get rr but can receive cap transfer and get e-war support....hold on the thing with carrier triage is that due to them being to able to not get repaired while in triage it gets rarely used in combat because they just die verry quickly (actually that brings up another idea of making carrier triage give a (resist instead of repair) bonus to make it better)so maybe its a better idea to not give them defensive bonuses but make them possible to be remote repaired and just slow them down make em unable to warp etcwell thats my idea"
"ever since the last couple of patches i have been getting booted from eve every 5 mins and with in the past day or so i can't even stay online for more than 30 sec. i was wondering if anyone else was having the same issue.i have already uninstalled and reinstalled, making sure that all previous eve files were removed from my computer. i have repaired the client on numerous occasions. i have updated my video card drivers. i have monitored my internet connection as well as my connection to eve's ip address and there are no packet loses and my net doesn't drop when i get booted.so i am curious as if anyone else may have some suggestions as to what could possibly be going on."
"dont support."
"ccp just added probes to the overview and you want stealth probes? not supported."
"lol, spot on!also, to the op, learn how to scan, dont ask for game changes just so you can pwn other people who are using game mechanics as intended"
"exactly.carebears have started to scan for probes and started to use much harder to catch ships (like t3s). if they were not adapting, stealth probes for low-sec wouldn't be needed.the mechanics are fine - they just outplayed you."
"learn to use your d-scanner...if they aren't set up to be probe-proof an expert covert ops pilot will have them within one scan.not supported."
"a good chance it's been raised earlier, but if not, just wondering how viable it would be. currently, the jb system is designed to have one jb linked to one other.wouldn't it be nice if you could simply right click on a friendly jumpbridge within range (as it is now) and then select \"jump to\" showing a list of all friendly jumpbridges (or alliance ones) in range?this removes the need to jump around multiple times in many cases.in addition: would it be possible to remove the need for passwords on jumpbridges (configurable) and let people jump based on standings?"
"i'm afraid this would make 0.0 logistics even easier than it is currently. you can use black ops for travel if you want that ability assuming the jump bridges have cyno generators as well. i would like smaller 'black ops' ship with longer jump range and ability to jump to black ops cynos but without ability to bridge other ships. let's say battlecruiser hull ? make it gank. does not need to have covert ops cloak. say a t2 version of tier 2 bc hulls with jump range of ~8 ly at jump drive calibration 5. or make it the missing fifth t3 subsystem."
"uh, nice, want have"
"the highest meta level for actual obtainable items in-game is 14, which is ultra rare officer mods.the highest i've ever seen is 20, but that's \"gm\" modules."
"yeah this would be really good!sexy illustration might i add."
"i like the general idea. has anyone done the research as to exactly what items need to be disambiguated (ie:do all t2 items have the same meta level?) that would be helpful in making a complete proposal.sort by meta-level (and by price?) would be helpful too."
"hell yes, csm support (or one csm member support, at least).as far as i know, all t2 items are meta 5, all \"base\" modules are meta 0, all \"named\" modules are meta 1-4, and all deadspace/faction/storyline modules are meta 6+. there may be some greater separation between deadspace/faction/storyline modules; i don't think i've seen faction modules outside of meta 8/9 for example. there are some weird cases where there are actually different grades of modules that do the same thing.. for example, \"basic damage control\" and \"damage control i\" are both meta 0, but the former is far weaker and has its own \"variants\" which are not dci variants. but i digress.even though t2 items are all meta 5, it'd still be nice to have that \"5\" there just as a clarifying thing. also, it doesn't have to be as big as i made it in the image; just a small indicator would do."
"idea supported.sorting by price only if its the baseprice, realtime market prices won't make the db admins happy as sorting your hanger could potentially generate 1000 queries, one for each item.and yes, t2 = meta 5."
"the following toggles should exist:disable audio when game is minimized.disable station environment sounds.i could have sworn i had more but i don't, they still should exist."
"i'm always for giving the player the power to customize. i would take this a step further and split the \"environment\" volume slider into \"space environment\" and \"station environment\" volumes.i am excited to see what the artists have for the new ui that will undoubtedly be coming with incarna this summer - let's hope they add a few more sliders and toggles for us more picky players"
"yes yes and yes"
"i wish you checked support then!also self supported."
"a turret volume slider as well and i am all for it!nothing quite like relaxing late night chatting on ts listening to the music and thruster noises to suddenly have bleeding ears because your pulse lasers or autocannons go gasdsadgfdmds!!! at 100x the volume necessary even when zoomed all the way out.+1 for better audio control!"
"sup nubs. i tink tat lyk for teh caldari are up for anudder nerf for pvps lyk i almost die in a riffer wuz wit dat i lyk wun but hay."
"what is this? i don't even"
"puh-leeze. waaaay too obvious. especially considering this.0/10."
"thread locked.please communicate in coherent english."
"local chat window change:- 0.0 behaves just like worm hole space. only shows you in local when you say something.- low sec is on a 15 minute delay. it shows you who was in system 15 minutes ago.- high sec has no changes."
"that's not a proposal, that's a f&i post..all in all it won't solve the problem we got with intel now. we have 3-4 systems in place to get information about our surrounding.. with d-scan a pita and probing to fast and local as instant-no-effort tool.throw in the overview and you have freaking mix that's:- hard to master and makes no sense in the case of local- bad to maintain codebases for all the different approaches to intelman i hate those kind of 'throw it into the ring' proposals.. they have no substance anda shelf live of 2 days max.and it seems no one is really interested in a public feature tracking system to channel those kind of posts into something more manageable."
"oh, gee, nobody ever thought of this before. c'mon, honey, you gotta try harder than that to make people really bite."
"signed. i love running soe missions esp the epic arc, would love to spend my lp on something like this."
"bah, there should be one for each faction and they should be a hybrid of that faction and jove."
"that's why we need a.."
"note to self raise this next meeting"
"until this gets changed shift window will allow you to move any window to a predetermined position and size with the press of a button (mouse using the gui or a keyboard shortcut)"
"bump"
"just to reiterate, planetary interaction (pi) replaced npc provided components for station manufacturing. pi also provides tech 2 construction components not provided by moon mining. for example: pi provides construction blocks for tech 2 ship manufacturing and robotics for tech 2 turret manufacturing.the only exception is electronic parts, which can only be acquired through npc channels. why are electronic parts required for some tech 2 manufacturing? they need to be manufactured by pi or removed from tech 2 production requirements."
"you are correct, and i have outlined the 5% that are missing. this only affects faction ammo and missile items. if these faction items has a meta level of 0 (like normal tech 1 items), they are the only faction items in game that do.if they do have meta levels, it would be nice to know what they are to know which is better for invention. if they don't, why not?"
"the 'voteban' solution you recommend could be misused by organized people to exclude people from the local chat. imagine a corporation doesn't like a competitor and they voteban all the other corporation's members from local chat.i'm not saying there's no solution to this, but it could make the whole thing very complicated."
"is there a technical reason why this has to be? i open the corporate hangar, but the window is not saved like the size and position of most other windows. when i dock again, the corporate hangar is closed again.by the way, this is also the case for the science&research window (gone after re-login), and i don't understand what's so special about it that it won't stay open."
"i'll write it here first, because my writing style is a bit informal, and maybe it has been discussed already. ...has there ever been a discussion about the wavering (constantly slightly moving) camera view?especially (but not only) after some mining, i get a kind of motion sickness. everything is moving. also, clicking on small targets in the main view is difficult. also, pixels and lines are flickering everywhere because of these tiny motions all the time. also, it always seems like the ship is still moving, even when it's completely still. this is quite confusing sometimes. i wonder why this wavering camera was done in the first place. useless fancy stuff like lens flares?in that context by the way, anti aliasing seems to be half-working only, just like it was before incursion (i use an nvidia gtx 260). there's a difference between on and off, but when i use 16xaa, there are still some borders and texture lines 'flickering' as if there was no aa at all. considering that i also use highest quality 16x anisotropic filtering, this seems odd. never had artifacts that severe in other games."
"i highlighted the core of the problem. now learning skills are removed because new players are told unwise things. and there must be many old players who don't understand the learning skills. also, when i hear players who don't train the learning skills will not be \"competitive\", i wonder whether eve is a race to the death. (!) how can someone put so much pressure on himself or others?about ccp i just want to mention that it's a bit ironic considering how people react to profit-oriented decisions by ccp while the game world itself is massively based on that. ;) not that i defend this, but it should not be too big of a surprise.two comments about the learning skills:1) i figured out quickly that they really accelerate training overall when you train them one level below the other skills that you're planning to train. my feeling and personal preferences signaled me to not train them higher. i just do what i feel like and what won't spoil the fun.2) correct me if i made a logical mistake here, but it seems ironic: the players that have the greatest disadvantages are the new ones. first, when you create a new character now after the books have been removed, it is slower than ever. second, the 100% speed bonus for new players is removed, right? this should be compensated quite accurately by the +12 to every attribute. but what new players don't have anymore is the option of adding roughly +2 to every attribute in a tiny amount of time.i've created an alt just before the books were removed, and luckily i found most of the skill books on the market (but more expensive of course).new players being subject to this disadvantage might use up their free remaps more aggressively."
"ni!"
"moar supports!!"
"come oooon, do it already!"
"yes please. bigger please. i will deal with the font if i can make them universally bigger."
"supported."
"i don't have to, because the statement you replied to invalidated your entire argument about why this shouldn't be possible.pull your pod out of your exhaust port."
"you are wrong, and that is why you will not answer my question. drones autoaggroing is not the same mechanic are rep drones repairing things, otherwise every time you deployed repair drones they'd start repairing the guys attacking you. rather obviously this means that, no, it is not the same principle. in fact, it is the exact opposite principle.as for \"in universe\", **** that noise. in universe we are immortal beings that communicate at ftl speeds and can package ships into cargo holds, transport them across the entire known galaxy and into wormhole pocket dimensions and have thousands of crew members magically materialize when you assemble the ship, and not one of those crew members will ever need to eat, drink, or request shoreleave even if you have the ship in space for years.the reason why a targeted, remote effect shouldn't effect the ship using it is due to game mechanics, not \"in universe\" anything. in other words, \"you don't have to\" means \"you can't\". and since you can't, you'd rather pretend that the error you made somehow \"invalidates\" my argument. the fact is, of course, you're wrong. the reason you can't describe the process of directing drones onto a ship that they don't autoaggro onto is that it involves targeting that ship. when you claim \"drones don't have to be directed to a target.\" you are ignoring game mechanics.ignoring game mechanics does not \"negate\" an argument any more than claiming that you can shoot at ships while you're cloaked would negate a discussion of the cloak-warp trick."
"it might even encourage more people to solo pvp if they can bring a small local tank that does not require cap."
"the great thing about it is all you have to do to get past the \"target yourself\" thing is to put a command in the right click menu of rep drones to rep host ship."
"actually, i didn't answer your question cause i didn't care to. now to answer, never launched a rep drone, so can't say that i have.anyway.when the combat drones aggro, they must first target the enemy. it does not matter whether the person is able to target or not. they can target independent of the target ability of the owner.if you look at the rep drones, they have their own targeting system (indicated by the number of locked targets stat).if they have their own targeting system, then it is illogical that they would be limited by the owners targeting system. not only illogical but moronic and poor programming.and if you want to be technical, combat drones autoaggroing isn't the same mechanic as when you tell them to to attack. even though they are doing the same thing.rep drones not being able to target their owner and fix them is just bad programming. and lack of intelligent design."
"having your own drones repair you and your own cap transfer modules,ect. affect you are two separate things. surely you can see this?the fact that drones can auto target some ship independently of the actions of a pilot proves that you wouldn't need to lock yourself for them to affect you, unlike targeted modules such as cap transfer and remote rep batteries. the process that causes drones to auto target is irrelevant; whether it's because another ship is aggressing you or you are somehow enabled to make you drones auto target you (through a right-click --> repair yourself option). the fact is that the ai allows for a drone to target a ship and apply its affect without its owner targeting said ship."
"no, it's not. in both cases they are targeted external effects. yet aaaaaaaaaaaagain, how many times have you seen remote rep drones autotarget and start repping someone? you are acting as if combat drones are the same as rep drones, so if combat drones can autoaggro then rep drones can autorep. i might as well argue that my cap transfer arrays and remote reppers can work on my own ship, since local reppers and cap rechargers don't require you to target anything, either. you're only claiming that it's \"irrelevant\" because it shows that your argument is wrong. the fact that all targeted, external cooperative effects do not simply decide to start working and cannot be redirected at the ship using them is the whole point. sure you could add a \"right click option\". and you could also add a right click option to my cap transfer arrays that says \"cap up your own ship, 1337 hazrorz dood!\" oh, that's a fact? again, how often do you deploy rep drones and have them start repping the guy shooting you, like combat drones would, or start repping your fleet mates just because they feel like repping them?"
"no, no he can't. i'm not even sure if he knows what his real issue with this is. not a big deal though, there's always at least one fringe player who finds something to hate about a proposal. it's an eve fact."
"not very good at trolling, eh? a pity, to be sure."
"so long as logi drones cause a dock/jump timer this could be ok."
"don't even need to add any new orders/functions, just have them repair whatever they are orbiting. launch and they start self-repair, send to other and they repair that instead ..should be easy enough."
"because it's low risk and also profitable.to be fair, the \"belts\" in eve aren't really asteroid belts. the \"asteroid belt\" is an enormous ring of asteroids that orbits the entire system, not little isolated blobs of asteroids like you see in eve. though personally i'd have no problems with the belts staying, though i'd like to see them procedurally generated.go into space. open your scanner window. go to the \"probe\" scanning tab. click the scan button. notice that, even though you don't have any probes out, it still scans. this was the scanner i was talking about; it's a short range (5 au i believe) scanner which reveals major sites. that's the scanner i was talking about in the op."
"supported~"
"supported"
"i must say, the current drones are kinda dumb. how they manage to evolve into the intelligent rouge drones is beyond me.oh... support, yeah."
"i think *any* kind of immunity is a bad thing. and personally, i think light drones probably should be the counter to eafs (rather than any medium sized weapon, which is what happens right now). a medium shield extender on most of the eafs gives you a decent 20-30 second lifespan against a flight of warriors right now, and presuming they lower the sig radius of the ships as outlined by the proposal, hopefully they won't instantly die to hurricanes, harbingers, zealots, omens, stabbers, vagabonds etc."
"many of us have seen it:except we tried to access e-o.com/api to get the api key for our new account. while i see the reason for this time period to prevent certain kinds of forum spamming, it is absolutely unnecessary to lock away access to the api keys this way. especially those of us who either want to plan (in say evemon) their new character or just purchased a character and want to start planning the next steps in training.as such i propose moving the api keys to the account management panel, where even newbie accounts can authenticate and could get access to the api keys.72h are not a lot, but its annoying nonetheless and could easily be fixed.thanks"
"a small edit, a small change, that will go a long way.please, can we have the 'message of the day' feature available in corporation chat.as a growing game, as corporations become larger, and alliances even larger - this small feature would go a long way into helping manage all of these players.kind regards, la"
"a good idea in assembly hall? i find the notion patently absurd!excellent thinking."
"and we really need every edge we can get in herding the cats."
"la is still a genius"
"nice."
"thumbs up to this one"
"this is a very good idea that shouldn't require much time to implement, and it honestly surprises me that this isn't alreayd a part of the game."
"a small change and we would love you ccp. come on! give us what we want!"
"great idea, +1 from me"
"supported~"
"and alliance channel to"
"totaly worth it imo, for both corp and alliance chats."
"your jedi mind tricks are for weak minded fools. they wont work on me. (clicks 'support' box)"
"excellent idea. bring it on ccp!"
"+"
"signed"
"+1the very idea tastes of win."
"+1 my alt likes the idea, too."
"signedthe corp management tools we have are seriously lacking. this would be a simple change ccp could do, to help us out on that front."
"supported"
"i agree. bump"
"yes"
"supported"
"interesting concept"
"you could see in many online games, to name only few runescape and maplestory. also that wow option is also implementable...why not have as many safety precatutions as we could? hmmm...for those who dont read, you dont need, or to say more exactly, you will not need to use any of extra safety functions, but if you wanted you could."
"as i said before, you wouldn't need to implement any of extra safety functions if you dont want."
"bump"
"test"
"never heard it, now i want it."
"one small problem. in space there is no sound, at all... ever. there is no air to act as a medium for the sound to travel in that is caused by said squishing. add to that the fact that youre in another ship far away from said pod so even if it were possible to have sound in space it would have to travel many kms to get to you... thus weakening the sound from being heard at all. that being said.... thousands of times a day ships worp though planets, stars, stations and even other ships so demanding that ccp stick to the laws of physics would just be silly. thus i support the idea of hearing a nice squishing sound from blown up pods."
"i have a feeling that your idea would take more coding then ccp would be willing to commet to. also i don't think the players would want it anyway.but hay... walking in station is both those things and its being worked on."
"see amarr shipset to thremal/em resistancewinwont work because amarr can only deal em/themal and gaylente can only do themal kinetic"
"this is patently false...the reason being that the effect is only temporary, and being that you will only get so many resist points, you won't be able to get 99% resists because it works the same as other hardeners in the game. each point only grants a percentage of resist to the un-resisted amount. finally, they too will have the same capabilities should they train the skill set. please read the details before trolling please..."
"i think this could provide just as much a tactical advantage as the heat system used in the game. it won't create an \"i-win\" button because of the way it works, it will only allow your actual skill to have a slight effect on the outcome. obviously if you're outnumbered, it probably won't help much since you may well be receiving various damage types that will make the points difficult to distribute but it will perhaps keep you alive for a second or two longer (depending on how many tactical points ccp allows that ship to have)."
"it appears ccp has changed the policy on insta joining warring corps to get a surprise kill and then the killing pilot(s) leaving the warring corp.this is listed here exploit notifications specifically as an exploit.to have such a massive reversal on policy should have been announced and the web page altered to reflect the change, that they have not indicates an on the fly change in policy, which should not be possible. the policy was there for a reason, for senior gm's to suddenly reverse the policy shows a total lack of knowledge about the current state of the game.characters who insta join, get a kill then leave a corp at war give the victim(s) no redress by means of combat beyond a suicide attack, which may leave the suiciding pilot in an even worse position.to change an exploit that was deemed worthy of publishing is, in my opinion, stupid beyond belief."
"supporting my request that the gm team in eve become more professional and actually know the current state of the game."
"repeated corp entry and exit to avoid wardec consequences has always been an exploit. 0/10"
"supported!also keep on escalating the gm petition while referring to that link."
"captain, it used to be an exploit, however, it is no longer considered so.check it out with senior gm spiral."
"we have been the victims of such tactics in recent weeks and the gms have also claimed that it is no longer an exploit. it damn well should be an exploit, but even if ccp deems it okay (which would be bs), they should fix their page."
"well, that's some dumb crap. go abuse the mechanic until they declare it an exploit again if they actually changed their position on it."
"agreed some ships need a boost.however there is nothing at all wrong with the punisher, it's a sweet ship."
"i am always a fan of a more shiny game, and provided it doesn't lag things, then signed. signed five times."
"then why do you care?"
"it can pop out 15 drones doing the damage of 30 fighter bombers max. drone bandwith actually stops it from using that 6th dcu to pop out 16 fb. kinda funny eh? to get a role bonus your ship can't ****ing use."
"nischara,...why 1-3 months...its obvoisly abandoned even after a week or two.making it 'faster' instead of your 1-3 month sceneario also allows pos taking to be 'more worth it'. instaed of attacking a pos in a wh and destroying the pos, you would just have to 'hold' it for a short period of time to take it.thats why i suggested something like the decryptor idea - because you may do all the work and then someone else comes and takes it otherwise (while ur offline wiating for the pos to reach its limit).(take all the pos defences )anyway - still would be nice to somehow take it rather than let it sit there. at least we are on the same page."
"indeed. the ability to open the current containers we have while they are in the corp hanger array and the ability to set a password on those containers inside would be a great improvement by it's self."
"probably as complicated to solve as the roles and whatnot.. you're better of supporting the pos resurrection proposal and turn these things into little outposts.also pwd protection of containers inside corp hangars doesn't work as you need the role take containers from hangars to be able to take stuff inside a container in corp hangars. but if anyone can take the whole container, why bother with a pwd?"
"wow, that's a stroke of genius. that would save my butt in many a pve situation when i need to gain back my armor."
"not sure if supported,think of dual tanking ships o_o 90%explosive shield 90% em armor i can see gun imbalancethis would ad not just a little bit more complexity !i'll bump it up as it is a good discussion.thing is, what is good for you is good for your opponents as well, this ads difficulty in unreasonable amount. making it even harder for new players to join pvp.such switch tanks would not be as strong in many vs many but in few vs few or 1 vs 1 they can be very devestating.also, are the shields something one can simply put off-line and instant on-line again???? they might need to heat up or something."
"i support this product and/or service."
"...with no tackle or damage mods, and fitting both plates and extenders and/or reppers and shield boosters will leave very little to fit weapons with."
"i am behind this 100%anything to ease the mess that ccp calls a forum"
"i was just thinking about posting an idea like thisofcourse it was posted before, but i couldnt find the thread, in that thread there was a recomendation for a software with all the voting options i think we needyou should be able vote up/down an issue and every commentthat way all the important stuff would float up on top, and most of tldr would go away since useless comments would get filtered out as \"bellow threshold\" if they get enough down votes... as for the problem proposed here a few posts aboveold issues what were resolved or are in another way outdated could be moderated by the csm or ccp moderator staff, and marked/locked in a meaningfull way"
"supported"
"1) they are already being removed. doesn't matter what people say from this point.2) if you feel that those many years you had those added attributes were a waste... then you are a fool.3) have you tried playing all those years without training learning skills.4) they are already being removed. end of discussion. deal with it."
"it hurts newer players more.first off, thre were ways to increace your catch up rate - and while you would never actually catch up fully, you woul, with time, slowly gain on older players. the first was learning skills, the second was implants, the third is the recently introduced remapping.now most older players trained learning skills to 5/4 skipping empathy and such (5 was the rereque for the tier 2 back then), most older players who pvp don7t use implants unless they are going on a vaccation or somthing and then jc to an implanted clone, and most older players do not really bother with remapping since we hav all the skills we really need and actually find it hard to figure out what to train next. . .'capital ships 5 or cloaking 5. . .who cares, i will get both anyway - longer the better so i don't have to think about it' syndrome.the point is, removing learning skills further cements the age to sp aspect of the game. so newer pilots will now catch up slower. but like some have said, it does make training alts a lot easier since wi don't have to invest so much time into them. . . so its win win for the older pilots. newer pilots will just be that much weaker in the long run - which may benifit the causl player - but the long term stratigic player suffers. and thats the really sad part of all this - that the causal style player (not casual as in plays casually, but casual as the short term player)gets his/her fix faster, but in the long run will either suffer or quit anyway since a mom or whatevr still takes 2 years to train for, the serious hc player who is th type eve has always appealed to will find the game washed and too 'noob friendly', and the older characters will continue to use eve as a social networking site with good drama. . .so the older players win, the newer players lose, and eve in the long run loses. . . but hay, its what th newer pilots want, and god knows, ccp wants to keep those folks happy right?"
"oh, no! not this again!okay, here it goes. this is going to be my attempt at offering a solution to the current bounty situation. i know that this has been done to death already, but i have a fix that does not involve much math.why the aversion to arithmetic? well most of the bounty fixes on the forums revolve around making it harder for pilots to collect their own bounties. and to do this, the solutions have been dependent on whether or not it would be profitable for someone to collect their own bounty. some of the more popular ideas include: adjusting the payout of a bounty to reflect the market price of the destroyed ship/modules/implants. adjusting the payout of a bounty to reflect damage done by the hunter.having separate percentages of bounties rewarded for different kinds of kills. subtracting the bounty from the targets wallet.a bunch of other stuff that involves bounty-to-ship-to-item-to-implant algorithms.with most of these solutions, you would have to remember all that stuff you learned in algebra class just to turn a good profit as a bounty hunter! well, no thanks. i would rather have fun!how do you plan to do that smarty pants?here is my plan in a nutshell; make bounty hunting a profession.first of all, all the bounties in the game should be split up into different groups, or \"tiers\". this could be accomplished a couple different ways. one way is to separate bounties by amount. higher bounties would be in a higher tier. this wouldn't necessarily mean that higher tier bounties are harder to collect though. another way is to base the tiers on chance of survival. for people who look at kill boards a lot, you know what i am talking about. the more deadly the bounty, the higher the tier. this however would not make more difficult bounties worth more.both of these methods have merit, and there may be other ways of doing it that i haven't thought of. but why would the bounties be separated into different levels like this? its simply a check for the bounty hunters themselves. you want to collect a big bounty? you would have to work up the tiers to get it.jai di pointed out that the contracts window would be a good template for the new \"bounty office\". a serchable page that can show whatever marks are in your tier, and how much they are worth.in order to make bounty hunters work up to the really high payouts, each one would have a level, or tier of their own. so as a new hunter, i could only take tier i bounties. each bounty i collect would give me a point. after gaining a certain amount of points, i can advance to tier ii bounties. which would give me more money. so then doing bounty \"missions\", would resemble their pve counterparts. although \"grinding\" like this wont be the selling point of the system, it would help to make sure that only people who are serious about collecting bounties do so."
"what about my security status?fair question. at the moment, if i decide to go after a bounty, i could get a security hit if i find him alone in low sec and decide to take advantage of the situation. the only alternative is to follow the mark around until he goes into 0.0. waiting for that to happen could take days! the idea is that bounty hunters should be able to go after their targets with impunity.to facilitate this, each prospective bounty hunter must buy a \"license\" from the bounty office. the money goes to concord, just like a war dec, and the mechanics would be similar as well. a license would allow the hunter to hunt down targets anywhere- without loss of security status- for a set amount of time (possibly a week, which is about how long most missions stay active).at the current time, there are only nine bounties worth more than 1 billion isk. and those are probably multiple bounties placed on those people over time. in order to get these bounties, a hunter would have to get a second \"advanced\" license. each advanced license would allow you to hunt the specific character that the license is for. so to get the 5 billion isk bounty on \"pwnzor man\" (not a real character), you would need a tier v license, as well as an advanced license with pwnzor man's name on it.what about a \"sense of accomplishment\"?well, i would think that the money would be enough. but it would be nice to reward the successful hunter with a visible flag. this could be in the form of a medal, or rank (like fw), that can be seen in the hunters information. this would allow good hunters to receive notoriety, and possibly, fame.now a quick recap on what i have so far;prospective bounty hunters must buy licenses from the bounty office, allowing them to hunt targets with impunity. higher tiers cost more. and advanced licenses are required for any target with a bounty over 1 billion iskall bounties are separated into tiers, with higher tiers being worth more. bounty hunters start with tier i bounties, and have to accumulate a set number of kills to graduate to the next tier. bounty hunters receive lots of isk, and fame for their hard work.so, last, but surely not least...what about these swamp donkeys collecting their own bounties!?!?while it would still be possible, it would be a lot more work. maybe so much work, that its not really worth it anymore. two ways i can think of to circumvent this solution already;make a bounty hunter alt, and grind him up to top tier bounties. now you can collect your own bounty for full amount.be in league with a high level bounty hunter, and split the cash for an easy kill.as for the first point- unless someone brags about doing it (not out of the realm of possibility), how would anyone know? besides you would still need to take a bunch of other bounties, unless yours was worth less than 5 mil. as for the second point? well in my opinion, one of the cool things about eve is the espionage, and intrigue. so a big time pirate makes a deal with a bounty hunter, they work the system and get paid- good for them. and lets face it, neither of these issues is nearly as bad as paying someone to pod themselves (which is the current system, in a nutshell). and while i am sure other ways could be found to exploit this system, the benefit still outweighs."
"discussison below."
"here?"
"ban them all!!!/me grabs a pitchfork"
"omg! this is so totally an awesome idea and i can't believe no one had it sooner!"
"currently the shuttle icon in the overview is the same as the frigate icon. this can be misleading when flying into an area of space populated by a large number of frigates and/or shuttles. (when flying a cargo ship into a high population area and seeing, what at first appears to be, a high number of frigates, can really get the blood pumping. especially if you have a valuable cargo)fix: change the shuttle icon. as a shuttle is more of a cargo ship than a combat ship, perhaps an elongated icon, like other cargo ships. or another icon such as a modified pod icon.pro's:-faster assessment of tactical situation by being able to disreguard shuttles as an active threat.con's-pvp players are able to quickly see when you are in a very vulnerable shuttle, versus a slightly better defended frigate."
"hmm, makes sense."
"right now insurance rates are fixed, no matter how risky the pilot's career. if i ran an insurance company, i certianly would charge the pilot with outstanding bounties and low concord rating a higher rate, if i was willing to insure him/her at all.fix:-increased rate for reissuing insurance on pilots with low concord rating or oustanding bounties."
"as many many people have said, insurance in eve isn't really insurance. its more of a scrap deal."
"if i ran an insurance company i would charge a much higher price to anyone who might get a ship blown up. if i was willing to insure him/her at all.fix:- increased rate of insurance on everyone. deny insurance claims for anyone who lost a ship in low-sec, 0.0, is involved in war-decs, self-destructs, or is blown up byy any means other than npc losses.amidoinitrite?"
"so in other words, u would charge the same flat rate to someone who loses ships on a frequent basis, regardless of bounties or concord rating? let us know when u go bankrupt."
"i would rather they fix it so when my 100m munin blows up i get the market value of a munin and not some slapped together knock down, no where near enough insuance back. hulks cost 140m, insurance return is 30m seeing as people look to gank hulks even though we miners are the reason you have a fecking ship to fly in the first place, insurance should reflect the market value of a ship. dramiels cost 80m insurance back is about 1m. on a jag which cost 26m, you get back 200,000k. smacks alittle.fix. track eve prices for ships like other programmes. and repay the owner the fair value on their t2 ship - an admin fee, which is gotten from the trade skills already inplace. broker fees and such."
"i would actually like insurance to be buffed as it would give mineral prices a 'floor' the change to insurance to combat insurace fraud erased this artificial floor and mineral prices plummeted."
"i've always been in support of a mini carrier. as long as it's only able to field a max of 3 fighters or 10 drones, it's all good."
"don't try to design ships that use fighters when you've never flown in lowsec/0.0 to know anything about them.anyway, as others have said, your plan is flawed by the fact that fighters really aren't as good as you think they are. they put down reasonable dps against capitals and battleships but that 's it. their strength lies in the fact that they don't get mauled by having a few frigs running around shooting at them. if you really want an escort carrier it should be using normal drones."
"if you are truly using a lore based argument you have to remember that even a frigate has a crew. so a single person piloting a frigate is also not doable unless they have a pod. next?"
"that only counts for ships that we can pilot. and for example with the firbolg, one can see the pilot. and we don't use zentradi pilots."
"so you concede that ships we can't pilot don't have to fill the normal pilot to ship size ratio. thanks, i win again."
"it seems that english isn't your primary language, i can merely hope that you can understand pictures. now look at the picture in the link, in it you will see a human pilot."
"yes because *everything* in eve is to scale and not simply at the whim of an art director. i would like to point out that according to scale that \"human\" is about as large as two cars. using a random bit of art to support your claim is funny. wrong, but amusing."
"so that means all battleships are 500 meters long (except oddballs like the mach), right?ed, please stop being ******ed. (and besides, regarding wyvern size v. rev size, didn't you already make a growing thread telling ccp to fix it? :p also, based on the ehp = ship class argument, a proteus can be a capital ship :v)((having said all that, zentradi pilots would make a little sense given all the random 1-shot-kill death beams floating around; too bad they don't penetrate whatever poor sap is targeted :p))"
"i get that, but there's no harm in injecting a skill who's prereq is already training, is there?i mean what negative advantage does this have?"
"the negative is thinking of a sollution to what happens when you change your queue so that prerequisites are not training, what happens to the actual skillbook itemi would agree on the folowing sollution:- when adding a skill to queue (with prereqs trainig) you get a nice big warning message.- the skillbook is then consumed- if you change your queue in such a way that the skill cannot be trained you get another big warning- if you decide so, the skill is removed from queue and the skillbook is permanently destroyed, you need to buy a new book to inject it later"
"you should be able to inject any skill into your skill sheet but be unable to train it until you get the prerequisite. if you are podded before you have a chance to put sp into that skill, it will disappear from your skill sheet."
"yeah sure.. if you mean the skillbooks you don't have the prereqs for, maybe. but i don't think pvp needs more drawbacks for being podded as it is. and i can already hear them scream, that they want a list of skills in the killmail that got removed from that char upon podding..@op.. this is only a problem early on. plug in another skill for those 9-24hours you don't have the frigate lvl5.. any navigation skill comes to mind or support skills and there is no problem./not supported, solution looking for problem"
"since you need all prerequisite skills trained before you are able to even inject the skill, sure knock yourselves out."
"hard to object to this. supported."
"what about \"specialization in the operation of advanced gallente drones. 2% bonus to advanced gallente drone damage per level for drones requiring gallentedrone specialization.\"?or however it is normally worded"
"\"specialization in the operation of advanced gallente drones. 2% bonus to damage of drones requiring gallente drone specialization per level.\""
"that would also work."
"cross posted from discussion halli agree that the bounty system needs some love, but you need to be careful as its easily abused. once you have a bounty on your head, all you need to do is jump into an implant free clone, have a corpie pod you, and you split the difference (assuming that the bounty exceeds the cost of re-activating your clone).with the current system, the bounties are player generated (you podded me, so i'll put 10m on your head in the hope that someone else pod's you) so they are isk neutral - even if your corp mate collects it.if you change the bounty system to be npc generated, you create an isk faucet, so it would need some balancing.a few ideas are1 - bounties are generated by concord at levels proportional to any action that gives you a -ve security status. (or even squared, so a 0.1 drop in security is worth a 1m bounty, but a 0.2 drop is a 4m bounty) (note that this means that lots of people, even with high security status may collect a small bounty)2 - anyone with a bounty in excess of a certain limit, eg; 10m, is flagged \"wanted\".3 - wanted toons can be hunted and podded in high sec without a security status penalty4 - when a bounty is collected, the isk is paid to the player who caused the most damage in a battle (excluding npc's)5 - on collection, isk, equivalent to the bounty is subtracted from the wanted toon's wallet. this is important as it means that having a bounty on your head actually hurts you (assuming you have switched to an implant-less clone and dont lose implants as well) and it keeps the bounty system isk neutral. it also means that if a corpie decides to collect the bounty, all they really do is steal isk from each other - nice friends to have!. (option: bounty + a 10% concord \"processing fee\" is removed)6 - once collected, bounty resets to zero and accumulates as normal, so there is no actual relationship to current bounty and current security standing7 - collecting a bounty provides a small increase in the bounty hunter's sec status8 - players can place additional bounties on other players, but at double the cost. ie: if i want to place a 10m isk bounty, it will cost me 20m isk. concord keeps all 20m, the wanted person will eventually lose 10m (or perhaps 11m with the 10% fee option) and the bounty hunter collects 10m. net result is that for a 10m player generated bounty, 21m leaves the game, making the bounty system a nice isk sink.the point of paying double is to reduce the possibility of someone placing a billion isk bounty on another toon and then podding them, and collecting the billion isk reward. that would do 1.1 billion isk damage to their wallet, potentially bankrupting them, but would cost a billion isk (net) to achieve (2 bill upfront, 1 bill back on collection).9 - just to keep item 8 in check. player generated bounties have a 7 day waiting period. a toon gets notified immediately that they have a bounty, and from whom, but its takes time for the paper work to get processed...."
"i am trying hard to find a way for someone to have a friend exploit the system for them, but not finding a terribly great one at the moment. at the very most they'll have a friend kill them to get rid of the bounty (and then take the isk back so they don't lose anything), but to counter that just have the system =100 mill paid to bounty system on player x50 mill bounty is put on player xplayer x gets killed and loses 75 mill so if payment is 100% ...bounty is 50%bounty punishment is 75%=even if friend kills them to get rid of the bounty and gives the payment back, there will be a net loss regardless. (in this case of a 50 mill bounty it would cost them 25 mill to die since the carebear paid 100 mill -- assuming the friend gives the 50 mill bounty payout back to whomever got killed)."
"i still think that the payment for bounties isn't really the issue. its not that the numbers for payout need to be adjusted, but rather the system itself.in this thread, i went on about some ideas that i have had, and none of the take into account the amount of bounty, cost of ship, damage done, etc. while the solutions i offer may not be the best out there. but i think if this is going to be solved, out-of-the-box-thinking needs to be applied to it.as for the op;1. concord does not post bounties, that has always been, and should continue to be the place of the player base.2. the solutions i came up with address the sec hits, but granted, this needs to be addressed.3. paying the bounty to the most damage done is over complicating it. instead, how about just the person with the kill mail?4. removing the bounty from the targets wallet? a good solution should take both sides into account, and this would never be accepted.5. giving sec status for kills could be a good idea, but it not a motivating one. how about fame and fortune instead? (see the link to see what the hell i am going on about)sorry if i am being a little critical, but this is something that i would like to see worked out in the game.also, i will try to work up a proper proposal.-stig"
"#5- what about insufficient funds? if the bountied player has no isk in his wallet does the bounty hunter not get paid? if the bounty hunter does get payed, this is free moniez!#6- if sec status of bountied player does not change after bounty is collected, then anyone who is -10 will only have a bounty once because your bounty mechanic is tied to losses in sec status (unless payed for by another player at 2x the cost)i'm sorry, how did you fix the bounty system again?"
"some of the math doesn't quite seem feasible, i.e. #8 is excessive, but overall this could make eve a lot more fun for everybody.on a side note, i was wondering what would happen if the person you placed the bounty on doesn't have enough isk to cover it? should there be a cap on how much bounty a single player can get on their heads?"
"25) allow skills to be injected from anywhere (\"item is not yours to take\" when trying to inject from corp hangar, even though i can take the item and move it anywhere i want just doesn't make sense)."
"i understood it that the marauders were the t2 versions of the teir 3 ships just in the hull of the t2. they have the same number of guns when you factor in the ship bonuses 100% weapons bonus. so bring out a new one would seem pointless. it would be easier just to swap out the ship model of the marauders.besides faction bs's already have monster dps. they just require cross training which means you have to work for them. not everything should be given to you with just a few months of playing. people would get bored if everything was reachable in a couple months."
"why make tech 2 tier 3s just for the sake of it?if there's a particular niche that needs an expensive battleship sized ship to fill it, then fine, go ahead. asking for them 'just because' is pointless, there's plenty of rebalancing that needs doing with existing shiptypes before any more new ones are bought in."
"the mechanic, science and industrial skill groups are fairly cluttered up. i suggest creating the following new skill groups.- rigging (jury rigging + all rig specific skills moved to here). - mining (mining, mining upgrades, and all ore and refining based skills moved here). - research (all of the r&d/invention, and research project management skills moved here).additionally, i suggest the following change.- thermodynamics moved to mechanic skill group (both the nanite paste related skills are here, and also, mechanic is a more fitting skill group for the skill.)i think this would make these fairly cluttered skill groups simpler for new players, and into more focused categories.edit: someone also suggested having various sub-menus (preferable toggleable on/off in the character sheet settings), and having various sub menus in skill groups such as a \"shields\" subgroup in engineering, etc."
"yes, especially rigging.an alternative, though, that i'd be much more supportive of would be sub-groups (such as a sub-group for laser gunnery skills, hybrid gunnery skills, etc etc)."
"what about grouping for contacts?"
"how come i was looking for cynosaural field theory in science until i got used to it being in electronics?i also get confused all the time by the frigate/cruiser/battleship/industrial/capital construction skills being in the group of skills for armor related stuff. what is up with that?they should either be in industrial or a new 'engineering'.engineering group is false labelled, this should be called energy or power (same as with modules group of this kind).thesaurus.com - engineeringpart of speech: noundefinition: the act of turning material to usesynonyms: arranging, authorizing, building, constructing, construction, handling, implementing, manufacturing, organization, organizing, systematization, systematizingand while you are at it, please get the anchoring and starbase defence managment out of the corporation management group. those have nothing to do with the management of a corp.put it into a new group engineering together with the construction skills and the nanite skills + thermodynamics as those aren't armor related nor in a broader sense mechanical. the starship engineering skills should be moved there too.and as op said, you might want to consider splitting the science group as it is getting very big.one research&development for r&d and bp/lab related stuff and another science for all the other skills like cybernetics or biology./fully supported"
"i'd also like to see shield skills split from engineering."
"yes, yes, and yes. being able to quickly flip to certain skill types would be helpful."
"supporting my own proposal, and also, i've added the 'sub-menu' idea to my proposal. thanks for the support."
"where do you live? which internet service provider are you a customer of?is there a newer version of your ethernet drivers?"
"i live in washington state. far as isp, i am on my friends connection. him and another person do not have the same issue i have and we all share the same internet connection. his friend and me are even on wireless but his friend does not get booted.far as the ethernet drivers, i recently just got a wireless extender with in the past 2 weeks so its still pretty good even though it is refurbished.my friend who's internet connection i am on has coem over and he's looked at it and he mentioned it could possibly be the nic but he never did anything with it. could the nic actually be the problem?"
"check your connection speed and ping with these useful tools.they will tell you who your isp is also. i hate my isp too because they won't put in fiber optics in my neighborhood so i can watch youtube videos without having to wait 10 minutes."
"i'm also getting disconnects - but only every hour or two. i had absolutely no problems until the last patch or two. as a drone user it's a pain to loose them in a mission after a disconnection. and to confirm, my internet connection is fine when this happens. i'm also noticing some long waits getting through gates, even with only 20 people in the same system, and sometimes my client gets stuck and disconnects. probably quicker to train up raven skills than wait for ccp to fix"
"moved from assembly hall to issues & workarounds."
"n1 [:its like everything you wanted to know about the csm in one handy page lol - thanks for taking the time and the trouble"
"recently i've read about stretegic bookmarking and its complicated methods, like nearly emptying your capacitor in order to stop at a point in-between two destinations.does this have to be that complicated? why isn't is simply possible to manually stop your warp? i mean, if we're not supposed to be doing that, then the methods for making bookmarks 'in empty space' would have to be considered a mild form of exploit.so what's the idea behind not allowing me to stop warp travel where i like to?by the way, another unrealistic aspect that's connected to strategic bookmarking methods is the fact that you can empty your cap by repeatedly initiating warp and then immediately cancelling it. where does the cap charge for a warp go when the warp drive isn't activated? ok, i could imagine that some kind of warp field is being created and collapses when i interrupt, but wouldn't it be better for fairness, realism and usability if the cap charge would only be used after alignment with the target, when the warp transfer actually starts?to avoid trouble with planning, i recommend another feature:the information about warp travel distance is displayed the moment the alignment for warp begins, which is nice. it would be even better if there was an information like:\"cap needed: 163/147.\", in this example signaling that the warp will not reach the target. (or switching both numbers for better readability)"
"half of these ideas are decent, but holy spam, batman. make a single proposal which encapsulates all your ideas and put it in the assembly hall, or perhaps features and ideas. this place is mainly meant for discussing the csm."
"ok, i wasn't sure where they might belong, because some of them i have to check whether they make sense or whether i (being a newbie) missed something. a recommendation should be valid before it is officially made, no?also i considered posting all of them in one thread, but that could make things very confusing.it's only so many threads because i've taken notes all the time and am now posting all of them at the same time.i guess it's alright to move those of my threads to another subforum that (or when they) qualify for official recommendation.supplement:actually i missed the features and ideas discussion subforum. you're right, they might fit best there. moderators, please move threads where applicable."
"the thing is, per eve universe, the warp drive cannot just stop. first it locks onto a target (ie any location in space that has been recorded into the ships computer). then it activates, spools up to speed, and jumps. it goes from point a to b.in a way, the warp drive is like a throwing arm. the more it throws, the farther you go. trying to stop warp at any given point is like putting up a wall in front of a glider (ie bad).as for cap usage, the warp activates, and the cap is used before the actual throw. all that energy goes to bending the laws of relativity.however, your cap usage limiter (to limit warp distance) may be worth considering."
"yes, it would also be nice to be able to just align the ship in one direction and tell it to warp a certain distance."
"how about a button to turn off all local chat"
"there is a shortcut for sending all drones back to bay, which i use. there is a shortcut for making all drones engage the target, which i use. there is a shortcut for sending all drones back to orbit, which i don't use, since after destroying hostiles, they return to orbit anyway.inexplicably, what is missing is a shortcut for launching all drones, and i would appreciate if this option existed.i guess for advanced drone use it might also be useful to be able to launch specific predefined drone groups with a shortcut, but that's not necessarily part of my personal wishes right now."
"there is one. its called, right click on the list of drones (as in the bar you click to see your drones) and then click launch drones. it will launch as many as you have skill for (or as many as the ships bandwidth can)."
"that's not a shortcut. it's the same way you can do all the other commands i mentioned that also have a shurtcut."
"here's a good example: i was doing a mission, and at the end of it about to destroy a laboratory. luckily i had lasers, so no ammo wasted, but still it took a veeeery long time. and the problem was not that a laboratory has a lot of hit points, because i had been piloting a destroyer - 8 beam lasers. i had to switch from multifrequency crystals to standard crystals in order to save capacitor charge.now there i was, sitting still in space, right before me in close range a huge static structure, so this should be a joke for tracking, right? and if i'm not mistaken, tracking is what determines aiming accuracy. and signature radius, which of course is huge for a space lab. but still, there was very much variation in accuracy, meaning that sometimes i hit the lab only lightly or even barely scratched it.with things like this that are very unintuitive, estimating targeting accuracy now based on logic seems impossible to me."
"does anybody else have this problem?in pi, when i export produced goods through the customs office, the moment i click to finish the export, another batch of the produced goods suddenly appears, so i have to export again. it happened a lot lately, if not always, and i don't think it's because another factory completed its job in that instant, because the moment i open the customs office, the current launchpad contents should be displayed. two seconds later i click on export and a new batch appears. i have four planets and yesterday it happened with all four of them.could there be a kind of huge delay in the system somewhere? are tha launchpad contents displayed in the customs office updated when i export, but not when i open it?"
"does the spawn point of ships exiting a station have to be (nearly?) the same all the time? when there's more than very little traffic, it will make ships bump into each other, which could complicate initiating warp and other navigational things a lot. this is unrealistic. why don't ships spawn in a kind of random pattern with at least a minimum distance? a bit like at stargates. i see it so often that ships undocking might even be merged into each other for a few seconds because of that."
"it seems all stations only have one exit that ships must go through. so it is not unrealistic that everyone would come out of one area. though the moving through others is funny at times."
"it is unrealistic because you don't see the whole undocking procedure. you find yourself in space some distance away from the station, and you wouldn't stick close to all the other ships that just undocked, ending up a certain distance away from the station, but all more or less on one spot."
"i don't know, maybe it would tear down some intentional barriers in how the game is designed, but i would love to have more options for interactivity between my characters. since they're owned by one person on one account anyway, in my eyes it would make sense to at least offer an option for shared inventory. (it works for a corp though, so it should be possible to implement it relatively easily, no?)also, right now, as far as i can see, the only feasible way of transferring items to an alt is to make a contract, and that costs broker fee every time. is this complication necessary?"
"ccp wants you to pay for a separate account for such alt privileges."
"did i miss something? how is that possible with multiple accounts?"
"asteroids seem to have a 'hitbox' in the form of a cube spanning all its little chips of rock that might float around it. and while this could become problematic ... leading to a mining barge do a breakdance in effectively empty space, the real problem isn't even the hitboxes, but the fact that with semi-manual navigation (double-clicking in space), they don't seem to matter, or not so much. when i'm among asteroids or they are close and i initiate a warp to a station, the autonavi will act as if the hitboxes were a lot larger than if i double-click in space.using the same kind of navigation logic for warp alignment than for semi-manual navigation would be nice.although sometimes, even the manual method is troublesome. i set a bookmark near some asteroids, but as we know, the warp accuracy is not perfect, so i ended up among many asteroids, and although there was a lot of empty space, even with manual navigation it took a while to get the ship out of the 'trap'."
"that would be helpful. this happens a lot to me when i chase a rat (which seem to not have the problem)."
"this is a somewhat open and unspecific recommendation.it would be nice to have a current-distance information for bookmarks in the current system. possible features:- column in people&places (but would be inflexible in terms of update-intervals i guess)- info in the menu structure where the bookmarks are lined up (either a submenu option or a direct display of the distance in the submenu)- option to show bookmarks in the overview! :)"
"imagine my 1st char is training something, and i'm logged in with my second char and want to start training something there. if i want to do that, i have to log out, log back in (typing the password), select the 1st char, open the training queue, pause it, log out, log back in (typing the password), select the other char, open the training queue and only then can i do what i wanted.there's an error message otherwise, so a checking is done anyway, so couldn't it be that i can choose to pause the queue of one of my chars using another one? or would that be too complicated due to login security reasons or whatever?"
"any word on what went on?"
"one thing that is quite annoying for me, wanting to retain a tidy overview over my hangar inventory, is that, in the most extreme example, i simply have to install a module in a ship (e.g. for trying out various setups) and remove it after that, and it will have to be repackaged, or it can't stack with the others of its kind. since unlike ships, modules don't shrink in size when repackaged (right?), is this really necessary? couldn't this used-state be applied only when the module has been damaged?also, it would be nice to have an auto-stack option that will stack items that i put in the hangar inventory (and only not when i manually create a new stack).i just think most of the time separate stacks are purely unintentional."
"i might need input from other people to make sure this is not an issue of my system config (nvidia gtx 260 based, all features on max quality).sometimes, and it seems it happens when my ship is relatively close to a stargate, when i jump, the visuals of the beam effect of the stargate are just not there. (the sound is.)"
"to use me as an example: i mine with a retriever, using drones for defense. every time i undock, i have to re-open the two categories in the drones window (for docked drones and the ones in space). can't this state be saved? this unnecessary repetitive chore can get a bit annoying over time, and since the gui is so good at saving window positions and other things, this just seems like a little inconsistency. i mean, as probably the best example, even the opened-state of categories in the survey scanner window (different ore types) is saved."
"i think someone posted this problem a long time ago, but got no answers. apparently it is still a problem. regarding it, i don't understand why something so simple as a queue counting down numbers puts so much load on the system. the longer the queue, the longer it halts the game when you open the window. and when it is open, after some time (might be somehow connected to doing multiple task-switchings, but i'm not sure), the game will stop moving for a brief instant in a precise 1-second-interval. this will stop when a skill has been completed or the queue window is closed.thus, having the queue window open for me to keep track of its progress is not practicable in the current state."
"there is a customizable key config in eve, but some shortcuts i'm not allowed to change or delete. i'm using a screenshot tool that places them in a directory of my choice and with the file format of my choice. when i press the printscreen button, now two screenshots are made. they build up in eve's directory for them. since i couldn't find a setting to change that directory, i wanted to unassign the shortcut for the function, but it's not an option, and i don't understand why that shortcut has to be assigned, even if the player doesn't want it to be."
"this is a tiny one...since i only have a corporation for my own characters, i need input on this from other people managing bigger corporations:would it be helpful to have an option to make the \"use corp account\" checkbox when buying or selling stuff default, or to remember the last setting?"
"i hate this too :("
"still would like to know this, not just rmt, actual botters"
"why should it be \"economic\" to kill freighters in high sec ? there is absolutly no reason for that.you can go kill freighters in low sec or 0.0 space, because if you need upgrades, you need to make freighter runs. of course they often have a fleet who are protecting them.still you have the chance to suicide kill freighters in high sec if you really want, they are not invulnerable. but imho there is no need why killing freighters in high sec should be \"economic\".of course also they can be fleet support in high sec for freighters if you have very expensive stuff to transport. you also have the possibilty to wardec any freighter pilot and then you are free to kill him everywhere."
"ive seen a few gankings of friends and alliance members. i join fleet only to watch them burn. if your in a alliance and not of the same corp, all you can do is watch.if your alliance buddy says help in alliance chat and you join fleet you should beable to exact some pay back.hell you show just that in the butterfly effect video.but if you do what he did in empire, your going to be concorded."
"that's the thing with targets hiding in high sec--the suicide gankers can do the same."
"friendly bump to garner more support."
"/signed and bumpedas a capital pilot id like to see the old cyno effects back plz, part of the reason i went the route of capitals, and when i get my titan i want my godlike jumpbride animation.heres a link of the old effects i found."
"i wasn't in the game back when the old effects were around so i had to youtube it...hehei think anyone who hasn't seen the old effect needs to youtube eve cynos...you'll see.supported!(ok, so maybe they were the good ol' days...)"
"bump."
"supported for epic looks!"
"would love to see damnation with proper missile graphics...disco lights might have a competitor finally!supported."
"supported"
"i'm all for getting some various eve graphics fixed up.supported!if you want to fix up missiles and get them to looking better (and maybe even reducing lag so you can enjoy your hopefully bigger and better carriers) support my proposal:improve missile graphic and potentially reduce lagedit: although i just realized that the main reason i fly a hyperion is the topic of this thread... =/ oh well, just keep it bigger than other battleships!"
"i concurr. make all ships, stations, planets, etc scale appropriately to what is documented."
"support this my shield tanked hammer needs to be bigger"
"dual prop, decent tank, 3 drones, a neut, decent dps and ludicrous speed.that's just too much for a single ship. remove 2 from the list above. my personal suggestion is to make the dramiel much harder to fit, forcing people to choose between tank (mse) and dual prop, for example. 1 or 2 drones would be enough and reduce the dps a bit, making the dramiel a very fast ship with cruor/succubus dps without the tank and bonused ewar.at the moment, the dramiel makes 90% of the frigate lineup obsolete.edit:typo"
"speed is not what is wrong with the dramiel. having a roadrunner with a gatling gun and 50cm armor plating is.keep it as is but give it a significant drawback in the same vein as all the other have. - my suggestion is to cut its capacitor in half and remove 5m3 of bandwidth.so your idea of a balanced ship is if there is another that is able to beat, even though that one other ship costs 2-3 times as much in \"base\" configuration (more expensive hull + faction web)?"
"i think cutting the cap in half is a little extreme, its meant to be an interceptor but unfortunately its also and assault frigate at the same time, personally if its going to get scaled back id say make it a little like a faster taranis, not a faster taranis with a jaguar-like tank"
"dramiel is fun to fly - people often forget that fact when they try to modify the game (remember games are played for fun)there's no denying that dramiel is the most powerful frigate out there, by far. and we want to balance the game a little. that can be achieved without nerfing the fun factor of dramiel - simply adjust the base costs of making one. double the current cost. that would make other frigates much more competitive, as well as provide increased joy factor to those who manage to kill one.the game should cater to elite players at least a little, otherwise it's all pointless grind."
"agreed. unfortunately, that's the reason for 9/10's of the nerf requests we see here. someone with a poor fit got ***** smacked by a another ship with a reputation and a better fit/pilot and starts screaming \"unfair! to the nerfmobile!\" over half of eve's pilot's idea of fair seems to be nerf every ship but the one they're flying./not supported"
"i fly the dramiel, it is over powered. the only reasons to fly a frig that is not a dramiel is because you know you will be suicide tackling, or you are in a covert ops."
"are you saying that you want your 70,000,000 isk frig to be nerfed?"
"using price as the only balancing factor is ******ed, my utu costs 30 billion, should i be able to solo super carriers in it? obviously not. a curse can kill every single frigate in the game with ease, it is not a viable point, besides, the cruor costs more than a dramiel and will likely die to one. it is not fine as it is. the problem with the dramiel is not that \"people can't counter frigate huls\" it is that it completely dominates the frigate pvp meta-game. a dramiel can run from or destroy every frigate in the game except for a few 'bait' setups like ab/scram/web ishkur/jaguar (which are incredibly difficult to use in 0.0 because of lack of mwd). the dramiel doesn't cost anything to make (about 300k in minerals at jita prices), the reason why they cost 70mil is because of demand/supply (the blueprint drops from domination rats and angel plexes). so to dramatically increase the price you would have to toy with loot tables. i don't think making it more expensive would make it any less prevelant as it is now though, it simply sets the bar higher for people who want to fight on par with dramiels. they will still be flown and still dominate frigate combat. i don't think having a frigate which dominates everything else is 'elite', i think it is the opposite, since it is the 'easy mode' frigate. i don't understand how eve is more or any less of a \"grind\" by making the dramiel more in line."
"your utu cost 30 bil because of it's rarity, not demand."
"i am aware of how the market works. in this case i recommend reducing drop rates of the dramiel blueprint by half and increasing it's base cost from pirate npc agents by 2x.i am absolutely certain that price of an item has significant effect on its usage in pvp.for a case study, i suggest you look at history of rigs, before and after ccp decided to split them into 'large', 'medium', 'small' - and thus reduce rigging costs for sub-battleship by about 10xmore specifically, look at history of drake's popularity and its perceived superiority over that history period. careful examination should show that drakes became noticeably better after costs of fitting 3x shield extender rigs dropped from 60 mil to 10 mil. it even led to people starting to whine about it being overpowered.as it is now, the cost of dramiel is simply too cheap considering the power it provides. much like the situation with medium shield rigs. while costs alone can't have significant changes to game balance, they are a fine tool for making surgical adjustment to overall game balance. not the sledge hammer approach that ccp favors - completely destroying parts of the game as knee jerk reaction to popular whines.dramiel should not suffer the sledge hammer fate."
"lol@ people trying to argue with finn.as for self repair drones, it definitely needs more argument than the obvious fact that they should be able to from a realistic perspective. my first instinct does lean towards \"sure, why not,\" but it could cause some craziness (i would so pack some repair drones onto a drake). the flip side is any tank gain from it is at the cost of damage gain."
"actually this isn't all that bad, i mean even if the drones repairing you is put in the repping wouldn't help all that much, if u look at the numbers, a supper carrier with 20 heavy armor rep drones t1, is equal to 1 capital rr. so a drake with 5 light shield drones self repping wouldn't do anything.but i still support it, i has it's use's, but not in combat."
"i am not wrong. drones target independently of the controller. letting repair drones auto engage and repair targets wasn't put in because there was no way to make them not repair enemy ships without revamping the whole of the behavioral code.my warrior iis never have to be told to kill the stupid fool in the interceptor. unless they go for the wrong one. the mechanics are not different for rep drones, just one command line is nullified to keep them from autorepping your enemy.i don't argue, and even if i did... i'd win.you cannot dispute this statement: there is no game mechanic reason repair drones shouldn't be able to repair the ship they serve. drones are perfectly able to target anything targetable within their range. they are just never triggered into targeting their master, because you can't initiate combat against yourself."
"supported"
"while i do not have insight directly into the minds of the developers, i think i can safely say that the reason you can not self-rep with a logistic drone is a technical one, and not related to game design or balancing.to command a drone to engage something, you must lock it. players may not 'lock' onto themselves, ergo they are unable to send drones after themselves.the simple fix to this would be to allow players to 'lock' themselves. an alternate fix would be to make it so that logistic drones immediately begin repping the player that launched them when they are 'idle'.the longer fix that would do exactly what is requested in this fix would be to rework the logic of drone engagement completely such that drones are able to be sent after targets which are not 'locked' which would be a nerf to all electronic warfare related to denying targets lock, or make it so that the game client proactively determines what drones you have and allows them and only them to be deployed onto a specified target without using the target lock as a mechanism for target selection.this could potentially be a lot of work, and in the larger scheme of things may not be worth the time of a full development team. it also doesn't do much into the future, it's a one-off change.please support the drone ai thread, this would be a much smaller fix if the full drone ai were rebuilt and this request were merely baked into the final product.just a humble suggestion to help organize game development for the good of everyone. this is a great request, and were the fix easy i know it would have already been done."
"i agree with that, but orca can mine with 5 mining drones.after many years playing eve i still feel like a noob. but there are lots of others who are really bloody noobs. well repping yourself will overpower some ships in a very strong way, think about a rattlesnake going into a ded 10of10.while repping itself it can almost tank everyhing. no good imho."
"i always wanted repair drones to repair myself after a fight.many might consider it too strong on some ships nut they forget that you are giving up damage for it. anyway, ccp could introduce new drones with less repair amount, but can repair structure and armor (shield recharges by itself anyway)?"
"which is the balancing factor to using them to try and repair yourself! unless assigned to a specific target they should run a chance of repping an aggressor; including rats.this will limit the use of rep drones into a very small niche."
"so another stealthy caldari/shield tank nerf... thx but no."
"supported.quite disappointed to find out they actually cant..."
"you've been watching too many mainstream science fiction films mate. in real life asteroids are typically separated by hundreds of thousands of kilometres and collisions occur on timescales of tens of millions of years.in reply to the op, i do support a mining revamp, although i personally prefer the minigame-style setup that others have suggested over your suggestions. i have only recently returned to eve after a 4 year break and have very much been enjoying the pi and probe interfaces which require some thought rather than just the usual 'click and go back to watching tv' type things."
"i wouldn't mind seeing the ability to delegate drones, so that for example a dominix pilot could delegate their t2 light drones to the other pilots in the fleet who would otherwise be fielding lower quality drones.the dominix has the drone bandwidth to field five flights of light drones, which would make life interesting for folks running l4 missions in assault ships being backed up by a dominix.the ability for sentry drones to mwd even if only to return to the drone boat would be much appreciated, especially combined with the ability to reconnect with disconnected drones aver a crash-to-desktop."
"i also want to be able to make a list of things that the drones can attack. it would be something like an overview tab but it would be in the drone settings box that would be customizable for every different drone type (small, medium, heavy, and sentry). this way you can program your light drones to start killing frigates, then go to cruisers, then battlecruisers, and finally battleships. there would also be a \"no priority\" setting where your drones will attack how they do now.also you should be able to assign priorities to currently locked targets that your drones will attack. a setting on a target of 1 will make the target the next one to get drone aggro (after the current target is destroyed). unlocking the target, or getting jammed will make your drone priorities reset."
"honestly, when they used to bug out and start shooting gang mates, the whole \"going rogue\" thing made more sense than it does today. i agree with pretty much everything suggested except the idea that a massive wave of drones could be controlled by one player."
"yes"
"while looking at stupid oversights, contact tags/folders/groups too please."
"yes please"
"i'm actually surprised this hasn't ever existed.like op said, would really help with corp since they say that first as opposed to having to scroll through corp bulletins.supported."
"i also want to be able to put bookmarks into the channel motd and be able to right click and warp to them."
"excellent idea. +1"
"alliance too, as said above, and block tools to harass the members."
"+1 indeed"
"supported"
"add motd to corp, alliance and fleet channels, which is where they are actually most needed."
"less channels to watch if the motd is in the one that counts. +1"
"there should also be an option to make the motd pop up in a separate window so it does not get scrolled up all the time can be very annoying in a channel with 200+"
"i think this would be great in both corp and alliance chat."
"bump"
"yeah!"
"why not \"personal tabs\", and with that, anything, a can, a hangar, a cargo hold could have a \"tab view\" in addition to the normal views.each of your tabs is in essence a simply query that is saved as part of your character. the result of the query is what is shown in the tab.so you could have a tab that has the name \"boosters\" and the query definition for the tab is \"boost*\", now anything with the glob \"boost*\" shows up in that tab in any can/hold/hangar that is personal.queries could be more complex such as \"catergory[ammunition]\" now anything that classifies as ammunition would show up under that tab in any personal area when you go to tab view.could do a max of 8, 16, 32 tabs, something programmatically friendly. make the thing client side. the server doesn't need to care one way or the other."
"i love it, ill take a pair for each station. all cans should have this.supported !"
"supported!"
"1.0"
"supported. now you could make use of the small sentry dmg rig on the ishkur. lol now that would be a sight to see."
"100% supported. this would be strategically beneficial, but not op, so why not? especially since in order to have a tractor beam, the ship has to sacrifice a gun or missile--dps balance achieved."
"no, simply sentries are awesome and their down side is they dont move. if make them moveable what your gonna see is fast frigs towing t2 sentries around for an ishtar, or a carrier cause at least 1 of them will be able to keep 0 transversal. sentries are fineand marauders dont need a buff they are wicked already.imagine 10 dramiels towing 10 sentry 2's for a carrier thats barely off a pos shield.... they can cover the entire grid in second and get those drones into optimal quickly and move them quickly if they need to. this would completely void the down side to sentries and therefore make them 0p"
"ability to tractor beam sentry drones is a no for me.however i have suggested that sentry drones be able to be recalled within drone control range but without a mwd (slow burn return) and must be redeployed from the drone bay. so no \"recall\" -> \"cancel\" -> \"attack\" orders would work as a cheat to reposition them."
"500 m/s is not \"quickly\" and you will only be able to target your own drones of course. btw sentries do have low tracking. moving them around will make them miss alot."
"only ship i can see the benefit for this is a dread... except it doesn't have a spare high slot to stick a tractor so it wouldn't be able to utilize this. okay, carrier/scarrier might find it useful for a pos shoot (and could potentially fit a tractor)."
"or maybe they are well known people, with resources and affluence in eve which are targeted by more hackers, not to mention that when you know something about person in rl you can possibly deduct what would they put as password, which was used and abused in eve."
"+1if you put a ship from carrier maintenance into a pos ship maintenance and someone boards the ship who is in fleet with shield bonus this will happen:1. all fitting is offline (although everything was online while storing the ship into the carrier) 2. y"
"nosferatu have been balanced but neuts were never fixed.time to fix neuts.i propose the following change to neutralisers to balance them.where x is the ships peak capacitor regeneration rate. ( 40% ? )if target ship has greater than x cap neutraliser neuts for the full amount.if target ship has less than x cap then neutraliser only neuts a proportion of the cap.neut amount = full neut amount * target remaining capacitor / target peak capacitor.pros.stops the medium/heavy neut being the kill frigate button.active tank settups may actually be useful on more ships. exp those that cant fit cap boosters.cons.curse/pilgrim pilots will be unhappy."
"not supported. no special reason, i just like my neut-domi and the way how neutralizing works. you can tank passiv and i dont like how fast frigates work, but neutralizing will stop them. it will not kill them directly. so imho neutralizers work fine.nosferatus are pretty much useless after the nerf and i really dont want to see same with neutralizers.instead nerf the dramiel ! <- (joke)"
"fix the dram too. ( as well as not instead of ).consider a hyperthetical fight between a cruiser with medium nos and a frig.the cruise neuts the frig.frig cant maintain its prop mod.frig dies to other high slots / drones.this generally happens after 1 activation of the neut.although the neut does not supply any of the dps it is never the less 95% responsible for the kill.neuts are pretty much must fits for a lot of ships.which is ok in itself but can maybe taken as evidence that they are too powerful.the idea is to toughen up the lower part of a ships capacitor and make it more resistant to neuting.1 activation of a neut may not be enough to shut down vital systems.it may take repeated activations of a neut to shut down all mods on a target ship."
"not supported. a bigger ship is supposed to have an advantage over the smaller ship, whether it's in hp, powergrid/cpu, firepower, or capacitor, and as such, capacitor warfare, gun size, and fitting options. otherwise, why bother going above a frigate and risk more isk and being slower for nothing, especially since bigger guns have worse tracking? if u don't want to fit a cap booster to counter neutralizers, then that's your fault, even if u chose to fly a ship that \"can't\" fit them."
"being a small ship aficionado myself, i can certainly sympathize with the idea but cannot support it. what option does larger ships have against smaller if you take away their ability to cap them out? missiles/guns are speed/tracking tanked. drones are shot down. webs are ineffective close in, unless in numbers.alternate solution would be to make neuts only kill cap down to peak recharge (30-35%) and then quadruple or more the consumption of any active module on the target shipgives a little extra time before tackle/tank is shut off but doesn't prevent it all together."
"thought exercise;how about some hulls having a 50% resistance to cap warfare? say for instance a common active tanking short range ship like the hyperion?that might give them more of a niche role in pvp as they'd be able to keep fighting longer whilst being neuted. i'm aware that won't balance ships across the racial board but like i said, it's just a thought i'm throwing out there."
"i dont want neuts totally nerfed.i just think there effect is a bit too stong at the moment.ccp went through a lot of work to prevent bs guns / missiles from insta popping frigs.nos have had there effectiveness reduced too.originally back in the day a volley of cruise from a raven would insta pop any frig.now we have a much better situation where frigs can survive on the battle field much better v big stuff.the one module remaining that needs balancing is the neut.attack a bs and a cruiser that has a neut and the following can happen.they press a button.you have no cap and are basically dead in the water.ok v cruiser you can stay outside 12km.theres no way to tackle a bs with a large neut though.neuts are a 1 slot fix against frigs on a bs.1 slot !!!i think a situation where 2 or 3 cycles or modules to put someones cap under serious pressure ( 10% ) would be a better all round solution.make it hard to put someone down to 0 cap.but still easy to make them suffer with cap regen.for balance it maybe neccessary to not take cap from the neuting ship when cap is not destroyed.also buffer tanks are fotm.neuts have a hand in this.i'd like to see more setup types being viable."
"they already have a logical fix for it on nos's - can't drain below your cap percentage. makes it more of an energy 'equalizer', but keeps it fair across all ship sizes and tends to promote active tank/neut fits the same way nos already plays into active fits."
"fixing something implies it is broken.nuets are not broken.therefore they do not need fixing."
"fit a cap booster or nos. you will get enough cap between the neut cycles with a small nos to keep your prop mod active."
"neuts are really the primary defense a larger ship has against a smaller ship. don't touch the neuts."
"stating something as a fact does not make it a fact.a valid counterargument to yours would be \"neuts are broken.\" just as poor an argument, but you get the idea.neuts have exponentially greater effects when used against smaller ship classes. this is pretty much counter to every design philosophy in the game."
"exactly my point !theres one module that is the primary defense v small stuff.its a must fit ( overpowered ) module.just one activation of one module makes all your small ship problems go away!i guess another solution would be too move peak recharge for capacitor to be at zero rather than 40%."
"and then how does a larger ship protect itself against smaller ships? or are smaller ships supposed to be completely invincible against larger ships?"
"neut still too work after balance.just not kill all cap to 0 in one hit.light drones if solo.gang mates with anti frig weapons.something more than just press button / kill frig.cruiser and bs sized webs that slow down targets more than standard webs ??tweaking of sig radiuses ??"
"1)i totally agree. but seeing as how the op did not bother with such trifles as arguments, i did not feel the need to either.2)it is not in any way counter to the philosophy of the game when considered inside the framework of balance. a large nuet, for example, is the only real consistant defense some bs have against some of the beefier small(er) ships.removing said defense shifts the favor entirely into the other persons favor.100% winsauce in either person's favor is not balance. before you counter with: but the small ship will always lose... this is not in any way factually correct unqualifiably."
"no, they really don't. most large ships aren't trying to kill a small ship with a neut (frigate sized ship can still easily warp out before they've slowed to the point where something can kill them). usually just trying to escape (get jammed, neut, warp) before their friends warp in. light drones can be kited by some frigate hulls. some frigate-size ships can simply tank them eternally.neuts are the best compromise. big ship can escape, small ship can escape, neither has an advantage."
"\"neuts have exponentially greater effects when used against smaller ship classes. this is pretty much counter to every design philosophy in the game\"he said it better than me for sure.2. i think the idea ccp had when they started designing sig radius and tracking and velocity explosions was too make all ships viable on the battle field.this they have pretty much achived with the exception of the neut.if capital neuts were available most bs pilots would say thats just stuppid.wtf carrier just neuted all my cap at the press of a button !!!."
"that also creates very huge problems catching nanoed stuff.there are quite some frigs that can deal with a wave of light drones, it isn't even a issue against multiple frigs. also it makes frigs a very hard tackle, that you most likely unable to shake off at all for anything bigger than a frig.in the end this would represent a very huge nerf to any ship bigger than frigs and would make bs basically as handy caped as dreads.sure, but i'm very sure that most frig pilots wouldn't like it(i would welcome it however)."
"not supported.nos and cap injectors are the counter to neuts. with proper timing you can easily negate the whole neut effect."
"you lose points for not asking for what you really want, the complete removal of energy neuts from the game. not supported."
"if your thinking about nerfing neuts, please think about ecm.ecm is like neuts except it has a far greater range, and is still strong against larger ships.neuts also don't do anything vs passive tank, projectile & missiles. nerf ecm!"
"if you want to limit power of neuts, how about unnerfing nos - the natural counter. the nos nerf was absolutely horrid - fine example of ccp's incompetence.also, small nos easily counters several large neuts on a frig."
"i wouldn't. gms rule on things at their discretion. a new player might get a warning and an old player might get a ban."
"absurdity."
"while we are at it give every race a zealot, and a guardian and a scimitar, ooo and dont forget a falcon and a nyx.... yes the thrasher is nice as is the rifter, but the other races ships arent underpowered per say they just arent flown right. roaming yesterday i stumbled onto a cormorant that could perma tank my vaga, even after i neuted him for like 20 minutes..... epic fit, all im saying is that before you ask for buffs try flying each first"
"some good suggestions and insights."
"he's talking about new starting players. not year old chars. i don't see many 1 month old chars flying scimitar's, guardians, etc... i do see plenty of them around in destroyers and t1 frigates and many of those are itching for fights early on yet the recommendations i see tend towards \"cross train to minmitar\" -- so 1 month or less in the game you're told to dump your races ships for a different one?!?! not good.as for the op's suggestions... i don't know. i do think some adjustments are needed to the ships. only the thrasher has a decent rep for it's designed task among destroyers. the rest? ...the design is for an alpha platform -- thus the -25% rof on them. turning them into dps machines or the like would void that functionality. perhaps adjust the ship bonuses or slots in some way to ease their use by newer players.as for the frigates... ehh... lots of changes over time have caused what we see. speed changes, web changes, gun buffs and nerfs, etc... a review of the ships/bonuses is in order but i don't like \"dump guns for missiles\" on the caldari ship. can they at least get a couple \"decent\" gun ships vs everything being about missiles for them?"
"no thanks. i like the little variety the races have as it is thank you very much.and don't you go dissing punishers!"
"as much as i would love a 3 midslot punisher or a tackling coercer, then i am very much against sacrificing a staggering amount of tank and/or damage for the privilege.- the destroyers can be \"fixed\" by normalizing (ugly as that word is) their speed/agility to some extent and lowering their signatures to just above frigate level.- punisher is sorted by replacing the cap bonus with a damage bonus and adding a bit of extra base cap (aka. abbadonification). - tristan is already insanely powerful so not sure its needed at all, new players can fly incursus' for the 'pure' hybrid experience and a gallente missile boat is .. hmm, how to put it nicely ...- merlin is a hybrid boat (check bonus). make it 3/1 and not 3/3 .. if you want a spammer frig use the kestrel."
"not supported the minmatar in general may be a bit op now. but this will change. merlin is decent. you don't need t2 rocket launchers on most fits anyway. i'm really not sure what you want to accomplish for an under 1 week old character. they can tackle fine with a punisher or rifter or tristian. if they want to fight other frigates solo in their own frigate it will likely take longer than a week - rifter or no rifter. but if this is the path they know they want to take then yeah drop caldari and train minmatar."
"get used to it, this is how gallente roll according to ccp. and to expand on that, the way they roll is like a barrel. on fire.all of their dps ships are too slow to get into range unless your adversary is an idiot."
"+1 post.i can't see one bad thing about removing the learning skills.its a pain in the ass training all those learning skills up on a alt and try to explain to newbies that learning skilsl will help them in the longer run+1 for removel of learning skills"
"-1 for removel the learning skills.i spent many hours to find out which learning skills on which toon (building a cyno pilot is different compared to a main character) and which sequence to learn which skill to get the most out of the game.it was part of"
"-1 to whiny attitude..there is no complex thing about learning skills its train or not just that if you waste 1-2 month on ehm in the start you will ge sp much faster..."
"1/3 of the pos's in highsec are abandoned. honestly if there not used in a 15-30 day period they should disapear entirely, some of us have stuff to build and research."
"i want to steal peoples posses when they are away taking care of their sick grandmother"
"that's whythere could be valid rl reasons someone dosent fuel up a pos for a week, and considering the ammount of money and time it takes to put up a pos, a longer timer should protect player investments a bitalso it's actualy possible someone forgets a pos for a week, a large alliance with a lot of posesi personaly would have no objection to a simple hackoig module or something like that. and just a few minutes of standing next to the thing, the times i posted were based on the feedback i read in other threads about the issue, and i did somewhat agree with them"
"also wanting this type of thinga 30-60 days delay would be fine.1 week is too small. if you're such on a hurry go kill the pos yourself.here we're talking about pos really abandonned, not just taking an occasion after someone forgot it a few days."
"+1imho it would be a good idea if the pos will loose its shields after some days and after some weeks it will also loose its armor.so there will be only the hull to shoot down."
"there has been lots of calls from the peanut gallery about putting an end to high sec ganking. i used to support this idea until i understood that such a move would be detrimental to the way eve operates. as they often say, risk for isk.so the idea came to me that a new module should come into play here, a scan blocker. the scan blocker would be fitted to some damned slot and must be activated manually. upon being scanned, the scanning party would receive a message that a scan blocker is in use. now, the blocking party could be hiding something or perhaps it's all a ruse to get a ganker to throw his ship or ships to concord over nothing. now way to know unless you attack. those who engage in high sec ganks often site risk for isk as the reason why high sec ganking is fair, this rule should also apply to them which as of now it doesn't since thanks to insurance and loot, it's easy to figure up how much firepower you need and calculate properly to always come out ahead. this proposal increases the risk for isk factor for them as well as the blocker who could get his ship blown up for having it on while hauling nothing. the fun factor here for tears and general mayhem could be epic. as the joker said, introduce a little anarchy."
"as long as it takes lots of pg & cpu, and reduces the size of the ship's cargohold."
"oh sure, have it eat up a low slot and have a -10% cargo cap drawback, i think that would be very fair. give it a 35 cpu and 50 powergrid draw."
"i really like this, reduce cargo hold, but pg and cpu doesnt need to be massive. this adds a dimension highsec ganks, the only thing i dont like is the fact that it wont do much for low/nullsec in current statepsthis can also add to drug trading, the ability to move through highsec with drugs would be fun"
"this reminds me of the chronicle timeout. but in the story, the same idea is used in another context. so maybe these modules could be multi-purpose?also i don't think the cpu/pg should be so punishing. give a cargo hold penalty, yes, but make it normal pg/cpu for whatever slot type it uses.also, something like this could be used the same way snake implants are supposed to. this way you could hide whats in your cargo hold from anyone, and for any purpose.."
"well, null sec and low sec ships won't risk anything from ganking your ship if there turns out to be no loot payout. the risk in highsec is where it's at.as for the cpu/pg, i'm open as to numbers. personally i think the low slot and cargo drawback are enough to make this fair."
"just a quick one to make random debris salvageable, as i find it irritating that i'm forever looking for ship wrecks when there is an abandoned station starring me in the face.issues like respawn need to be addressed, but i perhaps items can only be salvaged once a day to make sure deadspace farming doesn't happen as well as the random chance + salvage skill.not sure about the details to be honest, it just occurred to me today, but generally speaking i think it should be done."
"supporting myself of course."
"i wish to see an expansion to the salvage profession. my proposal has two parts.1. turn all mission pockets with remaining wrecks into 'abandoned battlefield' sites after the missioner has turned the mission in.2. place bpos on the market that consume damaged salvage parts and produce intact salvage parts. ratio to be determined by ccp."
"now that is a thought that i can get behind. it would be nice to be able to turn armor plates into intact armor plates."
"been suggested and still want it.also maybe have deep space probes find far off wrecks that have drifted for years to find delicious loot"
"they would have to end the 2 hour disappear for wrecks though."
"so how are you gonna solve the fact that some people do the mission bookmark each room then turn in the mission and then salvage?i do agree with part 2 tough not that it will make you super rich cause prices of t2 salvage will drop fast but more for the fact that t2 rigs will get cheaper"
"please add a feature for any item sold exclusively through contracts that allows you to 'right click' on said item and then select 'view contract'. have this feature auto-open the contract window for said items with a range set to 'universe' and contract type set to 'item exchange'currently you have to open the contracts window and then type the name of the item \"gist x-large shield booster\" into the search slot, which is a pain in the posterior and does not make the game more fun.please fix, k thanks."
"supported."
"you can scan a ship and your ships computer can identify what kinds of items are in it's hold or fit upon the ship, but for some reason your ship computer can't interact directly with the ships market computer via the 'right click' --> 'view market' for said item.currently if you scan a ship and identify, for example 1,000 units of drop contraban that you want to report to the local customs militia, you have to open the market window serperately and search for the item in question which wastes precious time while the would-be smuggler besmirches the good will of the citizens of new eden.this makes no sense.please allow capsuleers to 'right click' on the cargo scanner/ship scanner list items and 'view market'."
"so your point of contention is that learning skills were a sort of caste system?"
"look, like its been said -1) its gonna happen, so people should get over it.2) it hurts th newer players more then the older players- example -ruah here is my first character by a few months, i did not train learning skills right away, i did not put implants in right away (it was a different game then economicaly), with my alts, i took the time to implant and skill right. while none of my alts have ever caught up, they are getting awful close, an will, given some time, actually pass me. after this patch, they will not pass me.so this cements the ageism that people seem to hate so much in eve. . . which goes against what a lot of the same people who argued so hard for this change, also want to see dampened down with more starting sp and booster implants for noobs and such. . .thats all"
"it would hurt new players if a 40million sp player was no match for a 100 million sp player, but that's not the case. once you get the elite core competency certificate, and train a ship's skills and weapon skills to level 5, skills don't have as big an effect on victory, if any at all. the 100 million sp pilot may fly a larger number of ships, or have access to capitals, or use industry as well as combat, etc, but the 40 million sp pilot can fly an assault ship or hac just as well as he can. new players may never have more sps, but that doesn't mean that they can't compete with old players, or even beat them eventually. and as long as new players can compete and win with less sp, there's no reason that they should be able to \"pass\" older players."
"so smart noobs trained skills that did not pay off, gratification wise, until after they unsub'd?wow thats really smart.this argument has always been a joke promulgated by those who either 1) do not understand even the most basic economic principles or 2) want a faster turn-around on slots for character sales (gotta launder that bot money somehow right?)that being said... op: stfu and stop whining about a change in game mechanics that doesnt mean diddly.or at least man up and rage quit ffs"
"it is like with lag ,nobody likes it ,but some noobs would still protest to not remove it from the game..."
"i \"had\" to be circumsized, therefore my children will too."
"people hate that? really?i thought it was pretty clear from the start that sps were some sort of loyalty program: subscribers are being rewarded for the time they remain subscribed to the game. if you want more skill points than the vets, you just have to subscribe longer then them.i think it's fair since high sps just offer more options, not supremacy. vets are more intimidating because of their knowledge and experience of the game then their superior amount of skill points."
"it really isn't that hard to identify and stop macros in eve without human intervention.it relies on two simple facts:1) any human being needs a certain amount of sleep every week2) each account is controlled by only one person (the eula states that you may not share accounts)from this it is extremely easy to find out if certain accounts are being run by macros.the time you have spent playing eve is recorded. the times where you log in/off is also recorded.ccp could then make a program that uses this data, combined with an afk-detector (by recording the last time the user did any action- e.g., loading the market or aligning their ship) to easily find accounts that are being played more than humanly possible.if the program finds an account that has been online for a suspicious amount of time over the last week- e.g, an average of 22 hours active a day, that account could then be under suspicion of being controlled by a macro, or multiple users. either way is breaking the elua.when any account goes under suspicion of being a macro, it could be automatically banned until the owner can prove that he/she was the only user. and was infact somehow managing to play for that amount of time.i'm not saying this is the solution to macros- but it can help reduce their impact on the rest of the eve community- if they have to run their macros for less than 16 hours a day instead of 23 to keep under the macro-detector radar & keep their macro accounts from being banned, it still severely reduces their output of ore/ice/bounties. you probably already know why this would be good for the rest of us, but anyway:positive impacts- the amount of wealth collected from each macro will decrease substantially. macro miners will collect less ore, macro ratters will collect less bounties & loot.- this means that the value of ore/ice will go up- more profit for miners- less influx of drone loot from russian space will also help to raise the value of minerals- less isk from bounties by macro ratters means less isk injected into the eve economy- less inflationone huge reason that ccp would be reluctant to impose many ideas about getting rid of macros is simply that ccp gets money off them too, and that banning them would reduce their income. however, with this idea, macros will still be able to run without the risk of being banned- as long as their owners modify it so that the macro spends less time online than before to seem more human-like.in essence, the number of macro accounts will probably not drop by much, but their effects on the rest of us will diminish greatly. it is even possible that a few macro controllers will subscribe more accounts so that they can regain the same output that they did before. (but this means more cash for ccp)tldr: macros are far less effective- therefore having less of a negative impact on everyone else, and/or ccp gains more revenue. if anyone has suggestions/criticisms- please fire away."
"hi, i log on, and stay logged on each day, i also dont log out untill downtime."
"+1, at least 80% of time i'm logged on i'm afk. this detector would need to monitor actual play and not just online time."
"i did mention this:so if you don't do anything, it would consider you afk"
"...or ccp could just develop some sort of actual macro detector for the game that detects active macros running that intersect with eve."
"the problem is, macros tend to be completely untraceable, as they don't modify any game files. for example, an advanced mining bot 'reads' the client by looking at the color of each pixel. some basic ones are just mouse recordings that keep repeating. either way, there is no way the client can tell whether a macro is being used on it or not. the people who make them make sure they can't be detected."
"how about scanning for someone performing the exact same functions at the same intervals for more than a certain time over and over again."
"works for about a week, at most, until somebody adds a slight randomised delay to all actions the macro carries out."
"edit: damnit scatim. beat me to it."
"well, we know your a hater, but we like math. so lets see some!okay. really the only math that is needed for this system is to decide what the tiers are. to try and simplify things, i made five tiers for both the level of the hunter, and the amount of the bounty. here you go;bounty hunters gain 1 point per bounty collected.25 points for tier ii50 points for tier iii75 points for tier iv100 points for tier vonly bounties in the current tier count towards gaining the next. so, a tier i bounty hunter would have to sucessfully collect 25 tier i bounties (pod kills, just like the current system), to have access to tier ii bounties. a tier ii bounty hunter would have to collect 25 tier ii bounties to have access to tier iii, and so on.now as far as seperating the bounties by tiers themselves, i figure new hunters should make no more than 5 mil per head until tier ii, and multiply that by five for each tier thereafter, with the exception of tier v, which is twice as much as tier iv, so;bounties up to 5 mil are tier ibounties up to 25 mil are tier iibounties up to 100 mil are tier iiibounties up to 500 mil are tier ivbounties up to 1 billion are tier vanything over 1 billion is still tier v but requires an advanced license.if you have read through this, i commend you! i know i can be a bit long winded at times, and i don't even have the common decency to leave a tl;dr!the solutions i have posted here are only a start, i will keep checking back, and any constructive ideas, or changes will be added to the op."
"seems like a good idea, i would have one thing to add though. the bounty office only shows the top 45 bountys, iirc. so how would a low level bounty hunter find his marks? there should be a better list imo."
"these two don't mix that well. if it is worth it for a random guy to waste loads of time to hunt someone down, kill his ship and get enough rewards to make it worth it, it will be worth it to a guy who doesn't have to do any work to track down and succesfully kill the bounty.you also skip the math issues, but those are argued a lot because of good reasons. how the bounties are paid and what the sums are is what the problem is now and what the replacement system needs to solve. how to provide those great rewards and make the system unexploitable. nothing you have posted here is really new and you just ignored the one major obstacle of all attempts to redesing the bh system. as it is now the lack of detail makes your proposal pretty weak, since you can't start making the new system until you have answers to all those little questions you wanted to avoid.i'm in favor of getting a better bh system, but the details have to be ironed out before ccp will commit so much development resources to a project of this magnitude. there is no point making a new system, that also fails to do what it was meant and is exploitable."
"definitely needs a better list (even if it was like contracts).also, maybe licenses should be limited to constellations or regions as well as having tier 1/2/3/etc license.otherwise, i like a lot."
"allow players with a bounty on there head to be shot at by others anywhere irrespective of security standing.bounty is reduced on ship destruction by the \"insurance\" value of the ship destroyed.bounty can only be placed on a player who is -2.0 sec or lower.now placing a bounty on a player actually makes there life uncomfortable .also make kill rights tradable.but whatever is choosen the bounty system needs some buff."
"wasting loads of time, and not doing any work don't go together either. the whole point of this system would be to make it difficult to turn a good profit at the outset. in this way, its much like the mission system already. and introducing the tiers would mean that there is a check to what you describe. lets say that tier i is any bounty under one million isk, and you need twenty kills to advance to tier ii. this means that i would have to hunt down and kill twenty other players- not just npc's- just to make more than one million isk per kill. that is only an example, but it conveys the idea; it would take work either way. making the list like the current contracts list is a good idea, i will put that into the writeup. i am unclear though how the licenses would be divided by region- the region the bounty is currently in? the region it originated from? not saying it wont work, it just needs a bit more thought.this would be taken care by the \"licenses\", issued by concord.so the bounty hunter gets less pay for destroying more expensive ships? that doesn't sound right!bounties can already be placed on anyone with security status of 1.0 or lower. i don't understand why that should change.kill rights and bounties are two separate things. although buying a license would basically give you a kill right over anyone who has a bounty. thanks for the feedback, i will keep adding to the original proposal. keep it coming!"
"no this isn't a faction warfare thread per say but, could the standings systems be changed a bit so that people don't get attacked once you reach -5.0 standing. instead, change it so that once you reach a certain negative standing you start loosing station services instead.like when you hit -2.0 standing you can no longer put jump clones in <insert race's> stations. -2.5 you lose insurance, -3.0 you lose market, ect ect until eventually when you hit -5.0 you can dock but not use any services. faction warfare wouldn't change, if you are against race a and b then they will still shoot you or whatever.this change would allow mission runners to actually do opposing faction missions and collect the tags for the lp store offers. this change would also allow pilots to respond to and help with events such as the sansha invasion. some people might not be able to go help not because they are part of the opposite factions militia but because they chose to do some missions that had them killing opposite faction ships.i mean seriously, if being minmatar and flying in amarr space is such a crime, then why are there minmatar owned and ran stations in amarr space and visa versa? if standings were such a big deal both sides would destroy the opposite sides stations or take them over or whatever."
"i couldent agree with ya more m8 but it just wouldent make the stuf that rare im afraid and im sure that's the hole reason not because of what would really happen if standings mattered npc's blowing up each outhers stations but the hole more rare items you can get with thoes tags"
"i totally understand you as i'm in the same position myself. however, i think that current system is fair and that we should be punished for our mistakes. so, i'm not going to support this."
"hey all... been thinking bout a change in the bounties system for a while and seen a few proposals come and go. there are problems with the current system, abuse of the dynamics which tend to discourage the system being used entirely.here's my proposal as to how to change it... all criticism is more than welcome!! ;)bounties to be part of contracts - allow kill contracts!!main bullet points:creation of kill contracts allowed in all systems lower then 0.5 for any player against any other playercreation of kill contracts allowed in hisec faction systems where the target has a -5 standing or lower towards that faction.failure to adhire to these conditions when setting up incurrs a -2 standing hit to the faction who has sovereignty in the system where the original contract issuer issued the kill contract, and a concord criminal tag due to it being an attempted illegal action.automatic cancellation of contract if station owner is part of systems sovereign faction corporation list (this means kill contracts in high sec space allowable but restricted to non npc faction corp stations aka independent npc stations). kill contracts can be searched for using contracts menu.conditions for payment is recent ship kill with last blow to contract acceptee within the last 24 hours.bounties no longer shown on profile but names can be used as search criteria in contracts menu in kill tab.bounties button in station still applies but sends you to a top 10 highest bounty payout outstanding for: 1)station docked in 2)stations owning corporation3)sovereign faction in the systemcancelling the creation of a kill contract means no contract submitted and no standings hit.unlike agent missions kill contracts arent accepted but have remaining time to cancellation, and an acceptance relying on conditions.***this is where it gets interesting guys ;)*** npc kill contracts against capsuleers can be found in specific low sector npc and pirate faction stations. issued on enemies of the pirate factions (only players with -10 standings to that specific pirate faction). any player with a -10 standing that changes to -9.9 or higher still has a bounty on them for 30 days since the change occured. contract shows remaining time left on contracts with time restraint.accepting kill contracts requires to be in station where contract was issued. remote acceptance of contracts requires standings towards station owner where contract was created. +5 or higher standings towards station owner allows acceptance in the same constellation. +10 standings towards station owner allows same region acceptance of contracts. this allows some npc low sec kill contracts to be accepted in remote hisec areas, in space and docked up.factional warfare kill contracts automatically generated on top 10 players with highest ship kill per hisec faction. kill contracts to be issued by npc factions against best players of rival factions.30 day countdown on kill contracts for faction warfare targets applies if target leaves faction warfare either as an individual or part of a corp or alliance.kill contracts issued by players have a lifetime of 6 months unless circumstances of the target change, then subject to either instant cancellation or 30 day grace period.npc created kill contracts are continuous unless targets circumstances change.ive opted against saying or giving any idea on npc pricing, tax etc... an as i believe this is something ccp would know how to balance better.i do believe if the kill contract expires then the bounty prize is payed to the corporation that owns the station.would be interesting to see npc kill contracts offer differing rewards including lp and standings increases, but that would only be subject to whether this system is too open to the same abuse as the current one!:)"
"omg! 50 views and not one thought on it? is the depth and scope a bit overwhelming or something? :s c'mon guys and gurls, friendly banter is most welcome! :)"
"i think the question on everyone's mind is: how does this fix the current system where you clone jump into a naked clone and have your alt pod you for the bounty?if it doesn't address this issue then your proposal is merely a lateral move from the current system (only with harsher penalties than before)."
"this would undoubtedly emphasize killing pods. no thinking person would deny this. perhaps we might argue about how much it would emphasize killing pods but not that it would. i think it would emphasize people prioritizing pods over ships quite a bit. not when the fight is close but definitely when the balance has shifted and one side is doing mop ups. should the game put more emphasis on killing pods? i don't think so.1) it will discourage new players from pvp. they can't afford to lose those plus fours.2) its not really combat. in low sec it has allot to do with either being new or how lagged your system is. a) if your system is lagged you will get your pod killed allot and conversely won't be able to lock other peoples pods. should we emphasize this? b) as far as killing new players? well i'm not sure how emphasizing and rewarding giving new players devastating losses for trying pvp is good for the game. so on the whole i dont see why emphasizing pod kills is good for the game. so this idea is not supported."
"+1why not show all public what someone lost. doesnt make a difference, isk wise, because its all lost anyway.i personally dont care much about killboards anyway. you seldom will find me on killboards. and i am not using implants.but i would like the idea "
"make ship scanner reveal implants when scanning a pod.so pies know how much to ransom for."
"why dont you start another anti-cheat thread about it?"
"suggestion of the year. +1 googleplex.op /not supported."
"no,just remove kill mails"
"i would like the ability to add multiple payees to item exchange contracts. additional payees could only be added to contracts where the receiving reward is only isk. payouts would work similar to how bounties and mission rewards work by splitting the isk received amongst all payees (all payees would have the same refid in the journal). this would make handling payouts for joint ventures (missioning, mining, ratting, etc...) easier. less time spent playing with spreadsheets and context menus ;-)"
"been experimenting with the legion on sisi and have been totally underwhelmed by its damage output with the covert reconfig."
"supported, was killing a pos with cloaky legion the other night, not fun at all."
"supported."
"not empty supporting."
"this makes sense. brackets need work."
"open overview settings.untick shuttles.is it really that hard?"
"as you are aware on the ui you have an option to pin / unpin boxes, pinning makes it almost transparent and unpinning well makes it a box.i have been looking at how the 'best' bot works simply by reading their forums, i have noticed the bot is heavily dependent on unpinned boxes, in fact most of the 'issues' i have seen have been replied with \"make sure all your boxes unpinned\" similar replies.it even goes to comment on why unpinning is very important.it also mentions about cargo needing to be unpinned too, anyway it seems celestial objects affect the way the bot works.i say ccp change the overview, to prevent unpinning and make boxes even more transparent, unfortunately i wont be able to provide, vids, links or information on this without revealing the bot but im sure with a little searching you guys can easily find the information i have provided.this could be a good step to reducing botters"
"that's rather a f&i post.. not really a proposal.you also forget all those people who got the same problem as a bot - differentiating between objects on a flat screen.we already got problems for red-green-handicapped people and whatnot.btw, now that you mention it i'm 90% certain the removal of the black top/bottom stripes in wide-screen-view was removed because of the bots (worse recognition of module status).anyway, not supported as this 'anti-bot fix' does remove usability for normal users."
"i personally dont think that ccp doesnt like users who use macros.imho they dont care about them. why ccp should make any improvements to stop them ?"
"hello hello,after 2 years of gaming, mining, selling and playing level 4 missions. upgrading skills,its starts to get boring! so you want to try something else...theres a lot 0.0 space out there, so i spended 4 well equiped typhoons to find out you don't stand a chance out there if your no in a gang or corp! if you don't whant that then the game ends here!so why not some space for solo players where you at least can have decent fight based on the schips layout in sted of being slaughtered in 5 sec. by some campers."
"cause eve is supposed to be a solo game.....0.0 especially solo..... troll post is trolling?if you want completely self sufficient solo stuff best bet is high-sec. or wow..... just sayingnot supported"
"how do you plan to enforce your \"no friends\" rules in this space of yours? by saying \"pretty please no gangs\"?"
"because in a game where 50,000 people are online, i cant be bothered to team up with anyone.i want solo eve!"
"but come on guys he wants his own tech moon and his own belts in 0.0, where he can only be attacked 1v1 no fleets. also probably wants to lock the gates when hes ratting.buy some furniture for his system, have the ability to change the stars color and name the planets. also have gate guns that shoot all but him and they fire dd's so noone can screw with his system but he can still go and roam and screw with others....as the dev's have said over and over eve is a cruel place, not a nice place with butterflies and rainbows.you can get robbed, ganked, blobbed, trapped, hunted, trolled, and embarassed. because its a sandbox, if you want to do solo stuff find a worm hole go several jumps deep and once your there spam directional every 30 seconds cause us pvpers will be huntin ya....."
"i agree with everything except the last bit. the last bit scares me. i don't want my eve to be like that. butterflies and rainbows are pretty."
"what you're suggesting is an impossibility.for starters, i don't agree with the philosophy. yes, generally many players are good at killing a lone player.. and so they should be. i suppose in a \"great\" game, the exceptionally skilled could stand a chance against the poorly skilled masses, which is something you don't see a lot of in eve (or indeed most mmos), but at the end of the day, two people should have the advantage when fighting one dude. why? because imagine you're one of that pair and you're both fighting a lone dude. there's two of you and one of him. you'd expect to win, right? well, so does the gang that beats you up.secondly, it really is difficult to implement without incredibly contrived mechanics. how do you \"make sure\" that solo space exists? prevent fleeting up? that won't keep people from fighting together. make systems only enterable by two people at a time? then two friends can go in and enjoy immunity from whatever while they enjoy the environment. unless you have magic space matchmaking for 1v1s, but eve really isn't that kind of game.thirdly, and this is what's going to get a lot of bile from some people: eve is not a complex game, combat wise. if you want to enjoy intense deathmatches, there are games which do it far better. in eve, you can usually tell who's going to win a 1v1 just by glancing at the ship types. there's some stuff with outlasting each others' capacitor but beyond that it's just a matter of who kills the other guy first. the calculations for transversal and such are interesting, but ultimately just manifest as \"figure out the optimal range to orbit and from there blast the crap out of him\". i don't like this, but to \"fix\" it you'd have to do a complete overhaul of the combat system, which both players and devs alike would be unwilling to endure."
"battleships are the wrong ships for solo.cloaky interdiction nullified t3 cruisers will get you around null sec as much as you want.other than that think speed.frigate hulls + vaga & cynabal are the best ships for solo play.as far as you idea goes.id say there is room for it but not in the manner you suggest.would be nice if there were arena's where we could blow each other up in a sport type setting.think how popular the alliance tournament is.yet 99.95% of the eve population will never have the oppurtunity to indulge in such fixed odds fights."
"i know several solo players who are deeply paranoid, theyeven dont trust their own alts. they have their own corp, they hunt solo and they are living in 0.0. some go like nomads around, live in wh space, always seeking easy kills.the game doesnt end here, just your imagination and your real life skills have limits.its not eve, you suck trying to go around 0.0 with battleships."
"i'm not sure if your trolling. but if you want to fly solo you can do it in low sec. but i recomend not using a battleship. minmatar or angel hac and down. i recomend a rifter or other t1 frigate to start. pvp is almost nothing like the pve you are used to.eve is currently a great game to fly solo in. but you have to know what your are doing."
"bump for something really easy to do"
"a better idea would be to base the insurance cost on both mineral index and how many claims the person has per unit of time.this way, the longer you go without claiming on your insurance, you get a cheaper rate, and if you are constantly getting blown up, your rate is more expensive."
"well that was one of the reasons ccp changed it because they didn't like that floor imho insurance should be made player drivensomething like you can sell insurance contracts like market items for certain ships as and you can change every parameter on them as you like time cost payout and if you want to sell to low security peopleto avoid selling to full time pvpers you of curse would have to make every deal separately for every person and look up their loses etc"
"who the hell would voluntarily insure someone's ships when they're almost guaranteed to be lost?"
"i think the most annoying fact about insurance is that gankers can lost their ships to concord and get almost all money back from insurance. with possible loot their mates get from the blown ship they make profit. this fact has been discussed for years with no reaction from ccp. imho the easiest way to fix this would be the lost of the insurance if your ships gets killed by concord. but i guess like many times before ccp won't do anything on topic."
"not supported, logic says you wrongcause business is about money and if pirates have alot of isk they are gonna get insurance just like regular players.think about this, if everyone in 0.0 is making the 40-60 mil per sanctum, why wouldnt the insurance companies want to tap that market, they would probably charge less as they know we fly in fleets. this only helps pvers and carebears not pvpers who are the ones using the insurance the most. so no"
"since a lot of people posted similar things, i'm not going to reply individually, but i'll address several points.carriers are cheaper, the skill requirements of a t2 battleship are similar to a carrier anyway.true and true. tech 2 items in general are expensive, but they have their perks. higher resists, more bonuses, that sort of thing. my megathron was also cheaper than my deimos, what's your point? for a small corporation operating out of empire space, capital ships are unwieldy. the goal of this design was to bring carrier-esque support to those people. if you're scratching your head as to why you'd ever need a carrier to be more mobile, don't worry about it. this ship really isn't for you, because your corp has the manpower to move capital ships around. not all do. five fighters in a battleship? isn't that a little crazy?i don't really think so. fighters are 5000m3 in volume. the tier 3 battleships range from 472,000m3 (maelstrom) to 495,000m3 (abaddon/hyperion). the rokh is somewhere in between. to me, it doesn't seem terribly unreasonable that a battleship, stripped of its weapon subsystems and armed with tech 2 level technology, could fit 25000m3 worth of stuff inside of it. hell, you can fit upwards for 40,000m3 of cargo into an iteron v with a volume of 275,000m3. we're talking about putting a bit over half that amount of cargo into a ship that's almost twice as large. hey empire pilot that suggested this ship, fighters really aren't that good!i know. i'm well aware of the fighter and its capabilities. come incursion, we empire people will be fighting capital ships, too. much like the carrier, the escort carrier's number one job is logistics, not raw dps. the fighters are more gravy than the actual focus of the ship. use the tier 3 hulls on this? that's kind of lame.i figured the ship type was more likely to happen if it didn't involve employing the art department to make 4 new designs, that's all.this has been suggested 20,000 times before!yep. and it still doesn't exist. i thought the release of incursion would create more of a demand of a ship like this. before, yes, i see how it was a worthless design, but now we're going to see small corporations engaging in fleet ops when they never have before. that's why i brought it up."
"why not just get a logi battleship....problem solved.as for the fighter's, anyone look at there size in the ship discription? that should tell u if its cruiser or frig size."
"that's the purpose of this ship. people have just been distracted by the fighters. :p"
"well that in itself is outside the ability of the iu warp drive. it must have coordinates to lock onto to align itself and jump."
"you can always take the current alignment. you can create a bookmark everywhere and jump to it, so the game can always make any point into a destination. double-clicking in space is basically the same thing."
"i posted a proposal some time ago, which included but not limited to tradable block list libraries.the csm majority vote was a pretty resounded no. maybe someone could try again and write it better.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.nt'"
"oh you mean keyboard shortcut.sorry. i don't bother with them. didn't even cross my mind."
"more irratating than that is the launchpad showing a certain amount and when you come to export it is says there are less - wait a few seconds and it will export correctly.but - not sure this section of the forum is the correct place for this tbh - not really a proposal :d"
"what you see is your ship coming out of the main hanger. you don't just appear. you are moving.and since you do not control the docking/undocking procedure (its all done by the station) you have no need to see it until you can control your ship."
"sorry, i see no relevance in your comment.and you don't see the ship coming out of the hangar ... or maybe it's just my client that's different."
"if you get both alts in the same station, you can trade items. that means no contract, and no fees.you cannot share inventory, but thats because different characters are different people iu, and as such would not have the same hanger."
"if your chars are in the same corp then just use the corp hangers. to do this you will have to rent an office; but if you're not married to a particular station you can find some cheap ones out there (i've seen some for 45,000 isk/month.)"
"this isn't only an issue with asteroids, try to warp when you're right next to a station and 9 times out of 10 you will start doing that dance thing you were talking about. this is particularly problematic when you are in a fleet that undocks at the same time. the fc gives the \"align to\" command and that align target is on the other side of the station from the exit point, everyone aligns but there's always a ship that takes forever, at which point everyone else is bumping into the station even though they're not actually touching it."
"\"it would be nice\" is not a sufficient justification. explain why it would be useful.bookmarks in the overview is a common suggestion, it's in the ui low hanging fruit csm proposal.before making proposals, read the csm pages to see how to do it, and what has been previously proposed."
"\"assembly halla platform for players to bring topics to the attention of the council of stellar management.\"--> jita park speakers cornera less formal venue to discuss or debate whatever you wish regarding the council of stellar management.\"well thanks for the encouragement. probably the wrong subforum anyway. never mind."
"there's an item on the csm wish-list for the ability to switch chars without having to log off. i think that's the closest you will get to having any kind of ability for interaction between characters; everything else is made to treat each character as if they are on separate accounts.i do agree, that would be a nice option, i just don't think they will go for it, there are bigger things they have to worry about atm."
"qft - it would be nice, but the cost/benefit ratio isn't high enough imho."
"raw log is on the wiki or via the csm database"
"yea what a good idea, nine hundreads \"blinding white lights\" when the now common cap blobs hotdrop your face. funny first time, then lame.not supported"
"i don't even use missiles, but i agree!"
"bump.for as many views, i'm surprised people aren't supporting this? this thread isn't looking to change balance mechanics and, if the devs can implement it the same as fb solution, could even reduce lag which is always a good thing for eve.don't just read it, support it!"
"good idea, slower but consistent response is better than no response at all."
"yes."
"hell yeah."
"lag doesn't scale linearly.but hey, if you want ccp to waste their time doing this, i'm all for it. either way they waste 90% of their development one way or another."
"believe it or not, some people actually care more about game balance then their own personal benefit.it happens. i know, it's a shock. but it happens."
"ragnarok/leviathan can kill dramiel. so clearly dramiel doesnt need nerf."
"it costs 30b because of demand actually. it costs that much since there is only 48 of them ingame, therefore supply is incredibly limited and exclusive.regardless, i was using the point that price shouldn't be the only balancing factor... look at the old titans prior to rev2."
"the vast majority of bpcs are not from drops, the loot tables are *******sed bad enough for that not to be true (now that the dropped bpos have been removed ).lp store from the angel agents is where it's at .. balance all the pirate agents if you want to solve that part of the equation. there is absolutely no reason for one faction to have more/better agents than another.hell, have a couple of devs sit down with the content crew and move agents around and/or change gate connections to make running pirate missions less of a \"tralalala\" all the way to the bank.might even make the alternative faction ships more attractive thus diluting the angel presence in space."
"you got a point there. in my experience bpcs drop very rarely from npc hunting. pirate lp store is where it's at."
"definitely supported.since i cant lock myself, just right-click on drones and click \"auto repair\" => drones lock me and repair me.wouldnt be cheated since it will never be as good as a local rep, but wouldnt require cap"
"i can remember having a \"cunning\" plan while running level ones back in the day. the realised self-repping withe drones was not possible please implementtibs"
"yes yes yes!good ideas and mining does need an overhaul. ice mining included--get rid of limitless macro infested fields. the eve economy will survive."
"supported.also, perhaps increase the rat intelligence in the belts / sites, to make it a bit more interesting. add more of them, have them attack your drones, or your haulers frequently. just so you actually can do something other than waiting."
"good summary of ideas mooted in previous posts.would like to see the fact a survey scanner is being used leads to improvements - not just the fact the player has pressed a button but the player comes up with a plan -> follows the plan -> gets a reward for his interaction.the best method i can think of for controlling bots would be to have a pitch of sound that varies according to how well the mining beams perform, a varying frequency to the mining beam yields better results. you could do this graphically but no doubt this would then be botted.lol,, or \"dont cross the streams\" mechanic,, players should be able to spot this one easily, bots would struggle.would like to see roid belts absolutely huge - with some very large roids in there too - i used to love mining near small moons 8) and popping one used to be a goal to set yourself.would very much like to see roid belt rats in some regions be a lot stronger and require hulks to be swapped for combat ships in highsec - why not ? would be nice to see faction rats exploiting belts with their own bases in numbers rather than just flying doing very little in belts.please make this part of the game more fun 8)"
"+1!!please! how come this isn't in-game yet? i could've swore it was."
"this is an excellent idea. please implement.tibs"
"a simple, fantastic idea that should be easy to implement. cutoms number of tabs like the overview tabs."
"you missed the point completely, as most people do when defending their own idea. giving sentries the ability to move (in any way) voids their biggest draw back. i mean you can already drop 1 sentry above a gate 1 below 1 on either side and one on the gate all 45 from you and engage anything on the gate and the chance the target will have high transveral for all of them is slim. but now you want ishtars to beable to drag drones into place....basically you'll see sentry ships go oo **** hes flying away from me tractor my drones and chase and when someone tackled him you just tell them to attack and untractor. when currently you'd have to fly back scoop em then pursue and then redrop and engage."
"at present, the directional scanner has a checkbox that says \"use active overview settings\". while this can be useful, it is common enough to want to use one filter for the directional scanner while using a completely different filter on the overview.proposal: replace the tickbox with a popup menu that allows you to select which filter you want to use for the directional scanner."
"1.0"
"i support nerfing neuts:when the target has less cap then the neut amount, the neut should only remove that much cap."
"your right... we do need t2 bs that is a big curse."
"so basically what your saying is you want to nerf the 1 thing that can save a bs from a frigate. seriously thats stupid.without neuts local rep cruisers and bc's and such would be neigh invincible n2m the dramiel which would be the most powerful ship in the game.don't get me wrong i love it too cause my sabre would be invincible with the only counter being neuts. i could run circles around bs and bubble the sh*t outa themneuts work as they are supposed to, cause hey if we wanna be realistic a frigate webbing a nano bs should get towed along behind like a sleigh behind a snowmobile. i'd be ok with them fixing nos's in a way that they were more effective as right now there sh*t. but nerfing neuts is f*cking stupid"
"come on. you remember how neuts were worse than useless. nobody used them. and since that time they haven't been changed at all. except maybe your perception of them. ('course that's all based on the assumption you didn't just buy your character.) stop complaining and pack a small nos if you wanna tackle bcs and bss. neuts are fine, they are one of the few defenses a bs has against a small tackler. and note i say that as a person that rarely uses med/lg neuts myself."
"i vote no to losing my mega to a solo rifter every timefrigates are immune to damage from big ships enough, and ships biger than frigates often have cap boosters so this proposal is not about themalso, statisticaly this is the worst proposal everall those reads and replys and not a single support yet"
"please show me the small neut that can fill my cap in 1 cycle ?you cant so you are wrong again and talking crap as per usual.small nos may work somewhat for a ab rifter with a small degree of luck.lag >>> proper timing.small nos wont help any ship with long range point and mwd , both mods use far to much cap for small nos to help.and any cap use on weapons isnt going to help much either."
"what do you mean by save a bs from a frig ?any bs in the game can tank any frig in the game ?certainly long enough to get back to a gate and jump out.bs have huge tanks you know.whats stupid is a bs has a 1 slot fix to prevent it being tackled by any frig.bs are not supposed to be roaming around hostile space unsupported."
"if youd lose mega's to rifters without heavy nos you probably are not qualified to be posting in this thread.hey my threads are allways popular.not expecting much support tbh.too many people like things the way they are.doesnt mean it makes for the best possible game.i always consider striving for mixed fleet neccessity as good game design.people complain about battleships online / capitals online / super capitals online.but when someone points out a way to make small ships more viable the answer is allways waaahhhh your dumb my x ship is much bigger and expensive it should be invinsible to small ****e.go figure."
"anything smaller than a bs is supposed to die a quick and painfull death fighting a bs.see what i did here?"
"taking your argument to its logical conslusion.when every player in eve is flying a titan the csm/ccp will have achived a perfectly balanced game ?"
"the \"one slot\" argument you keep spewing is flawed.passive recharge is enough to run tackle and range/speed takes care of tanking .. drones are a non-issue as they can be popped quite quickly.bs with a heavy neut will die to a full tackle frig if alone and frigate pilot is skilled/experienced. period. only exception is laser/hybrid boats which cannot apply dps+tackle even if neut is heavy unless fitted for it (cap relay does wonders on a frig).travel 15km while webbed/scrammed and you'll be bleeding badly by the time you make it to jump range. get caught away from gate or station and pray your intel is sufficient to bring reinforcements in time.neuts are mainly a concern for frigates when they are mediums as the cycle time is short enough to prevent any significant recharge to take place .. single small nos solves that.which leaves small neuts, or twin m/l cycled to optimize drain either of which can be said to be a direct counter to the close/fast frigate.summation: if you are having problems against bs in a frigate due to a heavy neut then you are quite frankly doing it wrong.against cruisers/bc a frigate is not viable in most cases due to inability to properly speed tank weapons, doesn't mean you shouldn't poke them as there are a lot of fail-fits around."
"heavy neut cycle time 24ssmall nos (i think you meant nos) cycle time 3s. that means you get *8* full cycles of cap before you get nuked down once.if you manage that the neut cycle hits you right before a nos cycle, you can instantly put the scram back on.running out of arguments (not that you had many in the beginning) and already personal attacks. wow. i am amazed. keep it coming.nobody said it should be easy, but it is doable. please try to kill any sub bs in your bs without slowing it down significantly. especially things like rifters.any ship with a long range point and a mwd should have speed enough to drift out of range and warp out, if not bad luck."
"ecm has exponentially greater effect on smaller ship classes."
"the main problem with the current system is that you can pod yourself with an alt and profit. kill contracts would not fix this.thus, if there is to be a bounty system that is worth anything, it must be impossible for the target to profit from it in any way. this is, the cost incurred by the bounty holder must always be higher than the payout.proposal:bounty is no longer awarded for pods, which become completely irrelevant to bounties or bounty payout.bounty is instead awarded as a percentage of the value of the components of the ship and mods the target was flying, as determined by a game wide mineral/component basket. purpose is two fold, first, it would be very hard/impossible to manipulate the payout to be worth more than the ship and modules the target was flying, and, it would make it impossible to profit from the bounty via alts: no matter what you do, what you blew up was worth more than what you get.bounty is divided between kill mail participants with highest damage dealer receiving the biggest share.bounty is not paid for targets in empire. this takes care of suicide ganking concerns. (ie: suiciding high value ships outside of jita for their bounty). this system would create a consistent reward for pvp that functions similarly to the bounties given in game by npc's, it would fix the current problems with abuse of the system via alts, and would have no abusable loopholes. it would also make low sec and null sec pvp rewarding in itself, encouraging more pvp and population in those areas while fixing the current problems."
"while this would fix people podding themselves, no bounty hunter would ever get the full payout. if i am going to go after a target for his bounty, i would expect to get the full amount offered, not just a percentage of what his ship was worth. ."
"tbh this would basically kill any kind of profession before it starts. it has to be seen as a risk reward with both sides in ballance and this system would be biased to risk without sufficient reward.and tbh restricting combat to lowsec/null is kinda strange, especially if you've put in all the work to get the target, and the target decides that even though he has a bounty, no one will ever collect when he's in hisec.placing a bounty on someone should strike fear in the heart of a capsuleer. i doubt star wars would have been as thrilling if han solo could pop down to cloud city and be like \"ahhhh u cant get me!\" i do like your idea of payouts being proportional to damage dealt tho!"
"there is no good way to implement this (or really any bounty hunting) in high sec because it would be a stealth boost to suicide ganking. i don't think anyone wants people ganking expensive ships outside of jita for the bounty.there is no good way to implement star wars style bounty hunting in eve because you can just make an alt and get the bounty if its a winner gets all situation. furthermore another big problem with the current system is that pods are of no value to anyone, making the system easy (and obvious to abuse). furthermore, you can't kill pods in hi sec without concordokken anyway unless the target has a massive negative status, so its practically impossible to collect in high sec anyway.the proposed system would make it impossible for the victim of a bounty to profit in any way from it, while giving a boost to low sec, null sec, and pvp in general by making it more of a profitable activity, and bringing the bounty system in line with the bounties npc entities pay and how they are awarded.finally, supporting my own thread."
"i am going to agree with geeshizzle about striking fear into their hearts. the bounties need to be fixed in a way that makes only certain people able to do it, and still maintain that swashbuckling feel. and as far as making bounties available in high sec, i don't see why they should be protected from a bounty hunter, just because of their location. but to counter what i just said, i don't think just anyoneshould be allowed to collect that bounty. your op makes the bounty system not worthwhile for anyone to do, let alone the bounty themselves, and i still don't think nerfing the whole system into oblivion is the way to go.i am going to use this opportunity to shamelessly promote my own thread on bounty hunting changes. and since i posted it, i will spare you the details. suffice to say it is something that has a lot of thought put into it (and many ideas from the forums, not just me).sorry if i sound over critical, but this is a change i would really like to see happen. i really think this situation can be resolved, but it is going to take more than just one persons plan. so check it out and tell me what you think, even if you don't like it."
"i read that but i think its terrible. for one, its too complicated for me to see it working, that is addressed in my proposal. for two, i don't think being able to wardec people is a good idea. it would enable people in high sec to gank with impunity, remove what protection there is by concord and ensure that no freighter pilots or industrialists can fly anywhere.that is the reason i don't think there should be bounties in high sec and there aren't at the moment. it stops being a bounty hunt and turns into a fee to gank whoever you want, whenever you want. i think it would be worthwhile for people to do in my system, furthermore, it encourages taking on bigger and tastier targets. suddenly you don't blow up supercaps for fun, but also for profit. same for titans. bigger rewards for better equipment on target, which will usually correlate with a more difficult fight.and in the end, i think that the bounty system needs to be simple, and predictable, similar to what happens with rat bounties. your system doesn't really address the current problems but creates more (wardec people? lulz.)"
"you do realise that in his thread he linked he didnt actually mean a proper wardec right? but im sure you knew that anyway, as you'd grasped and understood what he was obviously saying!no security status hit, not a 'get out of being concorded' card! if u wanna gank sum1 in hi sec with the licences etc... u can go ahead like right now. just with paying for the licences for that specific bounty the player wouldnt get a sec status hit, he would still get concord showin up and handing out some pain! and since when does something thats complicated never work? if anything complex things are generally extremely efficient because they've had to adapt to take into account the variables and uncertainties of real life."
"could you clear a bit your proposition? as i get it the isk still comes from the pilot puting the bounty, and the bounty hunter share the bounty with whoever is on the killmail, up to the value of the mods/rigs/subsytems of the ship. so for instance a dude has a 10m bounty on his head, i kill his cyno kestrel, get 2m bounty from his cyno mod (and the mod if it drops), then his bounty is now down to 8m.i ask because ofwhich would create a new isk faucet and would be completed ******ed."
"this idea would not increase pvp in null/lowsec because people that are already there accept it, and people that won't go there are afraid of loss.i think that bounties should be offered in highsec, even for a suicide gank. this would actually make a point for bounties: revenge. if you are mad at someone enough to put a bounty on them, what would be sweeter than having your isk going to suicide their expensive ship?"
"you do realize that the only real penalty faced by suicide gankers at the moment is the security status hit, right?you are correct, this proposal is just a change in how bounties are awarded to players, not into how they are generated. so you would still have a bounty office and the bounties would still come from individual players, so it would not be another isk faucet. what the change would do is make it impossible for the person who has a bounty in his head to profit in any way from it, as the only way to get that money would be through repeated loss of expensive ships, compared to now when all it takes to get the whole bounty is a disposable alt and a jump clone.that is actually a good point, and i suppose that if someone really irritates you there is no good reason not to encourage blowing them up, and the point is causing them inconvenience, after all. the thing with low and null is that atm pvp is more something that you do for fun than because its particularly rewarding unless you are running a camp or something. a system like this would actually create a financial incentive to go after pirates or leaders of big alliances who would tend to accumulate large bounties. and you would know when you place a bounty that it will cost the person significantly when its collected i would add that maybe you get a killmail notification when your bounty is awarded with the name of the bounty hunter, and date of kill?would add to the satisfaction of it."
"i think this idea is probably the best one i've seen for fixing bounties.supported if you get a copy of the killmail of people you place bounties on."
"this is sorta how i thought bounties worked when i started playing. then someone told me that bounties just went to the pocket of the guy you place it on .support."
"i have a three account ice miner corporation. i mine ice 1 hr each per day to pay the expenses. ice used to be almost 130k but because of macro miners it has dropped to 72k. in one hour i can mine 115 ice. thats 15 mil at old prices. now its only 8.5 mil at todays prices. i have to mine twice as long just to make the same isk. the same 3 account macro mining corporation can flood the ice market with over 1200 units of ice each day but only has to spend maybe 10 minutes at the keyboard. they dont care what the ice prices are because they dont have to spend hours at the keyboard ice mining. ccp has done nothing to stop macro ice miners. they need to change the ice mining process to stop macro ice miners."
"for 1, learn to use your enter button and space out the text.2, do not just complain but have a constructive idea about how the mechanics should be changed.3, searh and post in one of the gazillion mining revamp topics"
"i did search and did not find a gazillion mining revamp threads but if thier are that many nothing has been done about it.it fairly easy to stop macro ice miners. at the end of every mining cycle a question window appears in a random location asking if the player wants to drop thier ore? if it does not get an answer by the completion the next cyle they lose thier ore. see its not very hard to do. so why has it not been done if over a bazzilon revamps have been asked for?"
"because it would be quite annoying. unsupported."
"firstly, this isn't a proposal, this is just a rant with a \"fix please\" on the end. secondly..spoiler: macro miners don't use the eve client. the eve client is very big, very pretty, and completely unnecessary when all you care about is efficiency. macro miners use custom clients. adding an annoyance to the eve ui would do nothing to stop macro miners because macro miners don't use the eve ui."
"well seems like ccp solved this with focusing most sansha-incursion outside high-sec...maybe few sansha bs in high-sec from time to time?too bad, hoped this could boost interest towards navy.think it could need more action and pilots."
"macros operating in 0.0 (ratting, mining, ect) rely on a single module to maintain safety against wandering predators: cloaking devices.i propose a simple change to non-covert ops cloaks: switch the velocity penalty to a targeting resolution penalty..this will not affect or hamper ships from just sitting there cloaked (afk cloakers) or ships specifically designed to use the covert ops cloak ii. for other ships like black ops the bonus would be adjusted to mitigate or eliminate the penalty as they do now (bo would loose their velocity bonus and gain a targeting resolution bonus when fitting a cloak, as they would no longer be slowed by cloaks).with this single simple change it would become almost impossible for ships fitting cloaks to target in a timely manner. macros (or any ratter using cloaks as a safety net on a non-covert ship) would have to remove their cloaks to rat. if they also want to fit modules that reduce their scan potential they'll be lacking any sort of stable tank, making them inefficient, if not impossible, ratters.so, the cloak safety net would go away entirely. they'd be forced to use the logging method that can more easily be countered by hunters, or more detectable by ccp macro hunters.it will not remove all macro use. it will not remove afk cloaking alts. it will only mitigate macro ratting in 0.0, which has become something of a scourge."
"you really thought that through didn't you?"
"no, actually. *hah* honestly, though, cloaks are meant for hiding, not fighting.bo is the only ship that does not use the covert ops cloak and is still intended to fight. most ships that use the cov ops cloak suffer a rather stout damage output reduction (with bombers being the sole exception).years ago people were exploiting warp core stabs in ways that, in all honesty, were quite mild compared to the current exploitation of the tech-1 cloaks and ccp didn't just nerf them... they crushed them violently. currently for just fitting one warp core stab your range and scan res are halved, which is a rather insane degree of nerfing for a single module.thus, making it nigh on impossible to target in any timely manner by reducing targeting sensor strength, macros would either die trying to target rats or be forced to remove their cloaks.with their cloaks removed macro ratters are exposed to being scanned down. this increases their risk to continue their macro usage. or they can just log off, rendering themselves blind to the presence of hostiles when they want to long back on, also exposing them to risk of a trap awaiting them on log-in.for the non-macro denizens of 0.0 this is a major win... and for alliances that rely on macros it will only be a small kick in the teeth (because, if they're using macro ratters, they're using other macros that won't be affected by this change).to reitterate - covert ops cloaks ii would not be affected. black ops would be adjusted to suffer minimally from the change."
"only if bo's velocity bonus was not removed."
"the only reason it's there in the first place is to mitigate the velocity penalties of cloaks.if that is removed the bo has no need of the velocity bonus. maintaining their velocity bonus would leave them without an available bonus slot to counter the signature resolution penalty.i agree though, the bo is a lackluster hull class that needs some help. maintaining cloaked velocity bonus would help... but not much."
"well cloak velocity helps warp out faster it does almost the same thing as covert ops cloak by allowing to outrun gatecamps :)or they could just give black ops a covert ops cloak."
"yeah.considering the bomber started out the exact same way (speed bonus and inability to use covops cloak) and they saw how badly it fared so changed it i have always been rather mystified why the bo is still saddled with that limitation.my intention is to limit anything that might further hamper the bo while reducing the overload of macro ratters (only) in nullsec by eliminating their untouchable safety nets rather than invading the user's system to attack the macro application itself."
"to deter 0.0 ratters of any sort from ratting in space here alliance does not own there is a very simple solution.give all belt rats warp disrupers + make the spawns larger.you can work the rest out for yourself."
"ugh... okay, yes. as the second poster pointed out, i'm an idiot. i didn't research t1 cloaks before vomiting up this idea.well, since you can logically only fit/use one cloak, the worst your scan res can get is reduced by 50%.that still needs to be switched with the velocity penalty just for fitting it. re: 90% scan res, -50% velocity while active.adjust the bo accordingly."
"um, how do you know 0.0 macros use cloaks? do you use macros?not supported.first, this hampers all cov ops and black ops pilots who haven't yet skilled for cov ops cloaks.second, the speed penalty of the cloak means that any player can easily catch a ship that just cloaked (while they could see it) and such get within the 2000m range, force it to decloak and then blow it apart."
"no, i don't use macros.but i have tried to hunt down ships ratting in 0.0 following a rote pattern for days on end, in one system, from uptime until downtime, without pause. as soon as anyone enters local the ship warps off and disappears without logging off. even in systems too small to offer a warp location beyond local scan range.pretty much everyone knows that these macros rely on cloaks to survive.covert ops is a required skill to pilot a bo, co, bomber, recon... pretty much anything designed to cloak.i'm not making this suggestion to gimp people, or heck, not even to stop macro use... let those alliances exploiting macros in their sovereign territory continue to do so with impunity (ccp is not going to stop them, as we all know). only to pull up the stakes on the safety net provided by cloaks on everything by introducing the aspect of risk.and it would give those bored 0.0 pvp stalkers something to do."
"i thought everyone in =v= used macros...right?."
"just an idea to combat cloaking ships on a limited scale.the anti-cloak gun:- has an area effect, sphere or cone-like with a radius of 2.5 to 5km- works like throwing sand / dust on top of an invisible object, which has a de-cloaking effect- can not be activated within 10-15km from a stargate center, similar like the cloak within 2km from an object- can de-cloak ships within a limited range, e.g. 20-50km- can be used in certain situations, e.g. firing in the direction of a ship that has just cloaked- no target lock needed, just a x-y-z direction- can be used in groups to hunt cloaked ships more effectivelythis proposal is about giving other pilots a better chance at catching cloaked ships, while not destroying the cloaking mechanic or experience.ccp can add a means for pilots to search for cloaked ships in large areas in such a way that their almost undetectable 'safe'spot can be found when hunting close to known warp locations like planets, stargates, moons, asteroid belts and stars i.e. making cloaking and hunting cloaked ships more exciting."
"could just realise cloaked ships cant do anything to you cloaked and then just shoot it when its not cloaked"
"could just realie that a singel cloaked ship is cappible of hot droping an entire capital fleet on you the moment it decloaks making you dead real fast.could also realize that eve is the only game i know of that has cloaking technology and \"no\" way to counter/make less effective the same technology"
"in that case, i would prefer it to stay cloaked.nothing to do with anything."
"cloaked ships can provide intelligence and have an almost undetectable safe spot. so these ships excel in disrupting surprise attacks of enemy fleets without risk."
"oh wait, cloaked ships also make botting revenue go down!"
"thanks to intel anyone can do that, as long as your unprobable in like say a stilletto orany ship you can make unprobable. also any ship can fit a cyno.yet another afk cloaky whineyou want to stop cloaks being such a 'great' tool for intel, make local like wh"
"your proposal does not eliminate the [omg cloaked ship is giving intel] issue .. its more of in the lines of ... ow look some ship just cloaked .. lets be lazy noobs and not fly there to decloak, but instead have ccp give us a tool so we can remotely decloak them.total not supporting it,the cloak was nerfed enough.but here is a counter proposal ... give us removal from local so we can actually be cloaked .. or be covert-ops .. without ringing local bells ..because as far as i seen all you cloak nerf fans are doing is trying to remove cloaking all together."
"false, in sto the cloaked ships are actually more durable .. and get a bonus when they decloak to attack, not to mention they can still cloak even if you are firing everything you got at them.but in eve ? ... when a ship is cloaked .. you can see on local, if you fly close, you can decloak it, if you lock, they cant cloakand since they are basically tin cans, its very easy to kill.so stop crying."
"there is no point to this suggestion. you already have smart bombs that do the same thing. cept they might also kill the cloaker, which is even better."
"yes i am in favor of changing local to delayed mode.no it's not about eliminating the intel issue or nerf cloaked ships.smartbombs are for close range only so not very useful when searching large areas.this proposal is about giving other pilots a better chance at catching cloaked ships, while not destroying the cloaking mechanic or experience.ccp can add a means for pilots to search for cloaked ships in large areas in such a way that their almost undetectable 'safe'spot can be found when hunting close to known warp locations like planets, stargates, moons, asteroid belts and stars. i.e. making cloaking and hunting cloaked ships more exciting, i think this proposal for an anti-cloak gun can do that."
"what would the cloaked pilots get in return?"
"with that thing ... how do you expect covert ops or recons to run gate camps for scouting?it is hard enough as it stands, we often kill 50% of the bombers that try to run through."
"cloaking is completely balanced.when was the last time a cloaked ship killed you, or anyone for that matter?you are proposing a horrible solution to a problem that does not exist and you should feel bad about it."
"nothing.the chance of catching will increase a bit, i reckon. it's not about cloaked ships killing you. it's about creating an instant 'safe'spot that is undetectable. if any rookie pilot can use a cloaked ship and not get caught for a very long time, then the cloaking mechanic is somehow unbalanced. it seems cloaking ships have a 'i win' button for avoiding any nasty situation.please back-up your horrible solution argument."
"why is a cloaked ship in a safespot a problem? it cant harm you. and no the hot drop argument doesnt count. because for it to work they have to catch you doing stupid things. (like cynoing to a pos while cyno on the station would have been much smarter or cyno out of docking range.)a cloaked ship cant lock you, cant shoot you. nothing. *especially* when it sits on a safespot. your module would only help those people who like to blob any one of out their area.and it wouldnt increase the chance a bit. it would increase drastically. if you dont see that you fail at decloaking as it stands.how people would use your module.- fit ship for max agility- sit right inside the gate- as soon as the target decloaks -> hit approach- your ship gets aligned towards the target.- hit your gun.almost impossible to miss. bye bye blockade runner, recons, bombers and covops.consider thinking your idea through to the end before posting."
"i'm still not convinced that cloaking is imbalanced. i'm all for nerfs, but only where i believe they're needed.elayae, i want to ask you something.what, pray tell, do you believe cloaks are designed for?"
"not supported."
"the anti-cloak gun can be balanced by the the area effect size, the range limit and the activation or duration time of the module. this way you can increase the chances of catching ships while not overpowering the anti-cloak gun.the cloaks are not the problem. it's catching cloaked ships that is unbalanced. currently cloaked ships have the element of surprise and can make opportunity attacks without risk while no defensive maneuver exists to counter it. give the defenders a means (somewhat less powerful than the cloak) to find them and create an opportunity to attack the cloaked ships, this is not an unreasonable request."
"you didn't answer my question.what do you believe cloaking devices are designed for? what do you believe their purpose is?"
"rofl. really. have you ever tried to decloak ships on a gate and had been successful. ever?it is notstay aligned. fit to fight. dont do stupid things (see my first post)decloaking ships on a gate especially in 0.0 is relatively easy if you practice a bit. all it needs is a good ceptor and/or dictor pilot. now imagine bigger gate camps with 4-5 ceptors. 80% success rate in catching bombers is not rare."
"i think at this point in the game many of us have come to the conclusion that passive tanks are far superior to active tanks in the world of pvp. now i'm not going to get into why the game has shifted in favor of passive tanks because there are just too many little changes throught the years that have effected this. instead i'd like to propose a few rather small changes that i do not beleive would have negative impacts on the rest of the game.first and formost, the reduction of fitting requirments on all armor repair modules. example: a brutix should not have to downgrade to electrons in order to fit a dual rep setup just to utilize both ship bonusesthe second solution would be to decrease the fitting requirements for cap booster. again this is directly related to the use of dual or even tripple rep setups. in order to just sustain a reasonable dual rep setup you are almost required to fit a cap booster that also has a hefty fitting cost of it's own. this leads to setups that are more slot and grid heavy than passive setups and in turn are less survivable and do less dps. i think this needs to change and opening up some some grid and cpu for larger guns and more diverse setups when fitting reps is not a bad thing."
"i'm sorry, i couldn't get past your name... lol!"
"bs detector senses tingling.passive tank - based on resistances...buffer tank - based on effective hit point amounts...active tank - based on cap and regenerative hit points per cycle/rep... tanking dps in other words.you obviously have no bloody idea what your talking about... i suggest you go back to school and learn to pvp before making such ridiculous proposals.most pvp'ers wouldn't be caught dead active tanking in most situations because the time it takes to run your repper your caps already screwed over and your dead anyway.passive tanking may go hand in hand with buffer tank but most pvp'ers always emphasize ehp over resists because the more ehp you have... the longer you last... and that few extra seconds means the difference between life...and death.i don't see any chit chat about active tanking in there now do we?yeah... i thought so.not supporting yet an another nooblet proposal.most obvious proof even a noob could understand - a titan doomsday shot vs an active tanked ship... who would win?derp derp.result: titan doomsdays are a massive amount of \"damage\" in one single shot. so if that shot does over \"9000\" (nudge nudge) then your ship better have over 9000 ehp... it don't matter if your can rep 10000... your dead.... end of story. why? because an active tank ship reps an amount of damage every cycle... but it doesn't add to your ehp so if your ships total ehp is overwhelmed... your a dead man. end of story... have a nice day nooblet."
"what does a titan 1 shotting something have to do with reducing fitting reqs on armor reppers?"
"i have no opinion either way on the op's proposal, but you are talking out of your arse m8. maybe that's why you smell bs? its coming from you."
"i would support if...shield extenders lost their ridiculously unfair sig radius bonus which has been contributed to inflating a small cruiser to a battlecruiser or worse a frigate to a cruiser.furthermore shield extenders would also have to have the equivalent of a 1600mm plate, they would also have to have equal resists. i.e em being a minimum of 10% to fit with armour. finally shield will have to be fixed so that boarding in space or receiving squad bonuses apply the bonuses in the same way armour receives them. no good jumping into a passive tengu from a ship array only to find i have to wait till next week for my shield to recharge.armour rep boost? not on my watch."
"bad idea. if the point is to make local rep a viable choice in more cases than 1 vs. <4 then making them fit easier will do squatships will still have a finite number of slots available, so you would have to make the change so huge as to allow for large reps on cruisers which is just silly .for armour you need to make them rep a lot more and with shorter cycles with a similar increase in cap use .. pvp in particular is short and brutal so the slow-rep crap of current system is inferior to pure ehp .. need the burst rep to survive.for shields you have to decrease cap consumption a tad and tweak fittings to allow for oversizing, which is already the norm but hugely unstable. alternately the boost amount should be increased across all sizes.trick is to make it sufficiently cap-intensive so that counters exist even in 1v1 fights, yet not enough to utterly break it for pve putposes.if you can find that golden middle-road where a gang setting out actually has a debate as to whether they should go old-school buffer+rr or local+nrg.transfer, then you are at a good place.slightly (read: insanely) exaggerated. mse frig has <1/3'rd the signature of a cruiser and is still smaller than destroyers!lse cruiser has ...the only one where it 'might' be argued like that, is the 3-4 lse drake .. but who the hell cares about that pile of junk signature penalty does not even come close the speed/agility hit armour users take from plating.all those ails you mention regarding shields are more than compensated for by the mere fact that they regenerate without any input whatsoever.on the flip side the armour lobby could argue that their ships should also automagically heal=100 on docking with a station or that shields should not."
"ses are fine. the need some downside to them to balance them versus armor plates."
"a mod with this specification would be fair.tho i'd imagine that when a suicide ganker fails to scan a transport ship, he'd think the guy must be carrying something valuable and pop him just in case. heh"
"there shouldn't be anything that makes something else not work at all without any way to get around it. however, a system like warp scrambling vs stabs would be fair imo."
"yet there are cynos - they define the whole nature of pvp and have no counter, short of forming a mega alliance and painstakingly maintaining a system cyno jammer in a couple systems."
"come on eph the counter to cynos is dps or cyno jammers... :p either way it dies or the cyno doesnt open.i dont mind this idea but it needs more tweaking, because it would essentially make you immune to scans there for reduce your risk of empire ganks substantially. so im my mind it would be a low slot that was very restrictive in its fitting, and it didnt stop you from being scanned it stalled the scanner. basically it would show them an ecm bar at the bottom and would be like you've scrambled their scanners for 10-15 seconds. what you risk is making empire nub corp hauling completely risk free and thats not cool. so convince me how empire ganking would be effected but not killed by this module. as noone is gonna gamble 10-15 bs on a frieghter in hs without knowing whats in it."
"that may work in fleet battles, but for small roaming gangs 3 seconds is not enough to kill a ship, unless it's a disposable t1 frig, but usually it's recons or battleships or bcbobbeh, freighters can't fit mods. they aren't effected by this mod."
"this blocker already exist... its the orca. or you fit any covert op ship with a covert op cloaking device and cloak.. voila, nobody can scan you."
">blockaderunners (10km3), covert ops(200-300m3), stealth bomber, strategic cruiser with cov ops subsys(1km3), force recon(500m3).and to add injury to insult, with instaundockbookmarks and for freighters a webbing interceptor on standby you even got that kind of stuff for freighters.totally forgot.. put your stuff into a can, courier contract the can, not scan-able./solution seeking problem, no support"
"it would have to be passive only, or activate only when being scanned (with a huge power draw so many ships scanning may eventually break through) as the targeted ship, even if live-piloted, cannot react fast enough to block a scan.i'm more for the idea of scan masking... you drag and drop a hangar location (from personal assets) into the 'module' like a script and the scanner always get a scan of that hangar. this would enable people to bait suicide gankers with juicy scans of some hangar somewhere while they move their trit. or inversely hide a high value target under a misdirected scan of a hangar full of trit."
"that's not the point - there is a counter, dps, but it only works if they havn't countered your dps enough by fitting tank/using a heavier ship. in turn, you can counter the tank with more dps. now, if that is balanced or not is a different discussion, but it does have a counter."
"frankly, i'm of the opinion that scanners need a buff, not a nerf."
"this isn't any more a nerf to scanners than eccm is a nerf to ecm."
"that argument can be applied to any imbalance of the game.even to this suicide gank cargo scan issue - simply get more suicide gankers to follow you around and insta pop any ship that tries to cargo scan you.dps should be balanced with tanking, ecm with eccm, sensor damps with sensor boosters, warp scramblers with wcs, neuts with cap injects, cynos with cyno jammers."
"technically, eccm is a nerf to ecm. but what i mean is, scanners rarely get much use aside from.. well, suicide ganking. frankly i want to see scanners being used in conjunction with passive targeting and cloaking devices."
"my pilgrim can carry 1000 m^3 ;)and dont forget the 6000 m^3 redeemer :d"
"or the complexity of the troll has gone to a new level that even knowledgable people are fooled?"
"setting shields ? good idea.+1"
"add a button somewhere next to the standard ui for turning shield on/off. kinda like the overload rack buttons. add a cooldown delay to the button. 30 secs for frigs, 60 for cruiser, 120 for bs, 300 for caps.every level of tsm removes 6 seconds from the cooldown. more power to smaller ships."
"1.0"
"imagine being a director in a corp and setting each wallet division with a password, and even if your a director a password for the division you are trying to access will be prompted. i think this will minimize corp theft among directors and/or hackers. i also think that each player should have a 2nd wallet division as well, that is also password protected. many times i want to split my isk in half so i can manage it better but i cant cause i don't run my own corp. many players in a corp make an alt corps just to have this feature."
"tbh i think it would be nice to see some kind of \"secured\" wallet both in personal and in corp subdivisions. there's some isk i don't want to have access to in the event i make a mistake.and corp theft, as \"awesome\" as it is made out to be, just makes me groan every time i hear about another one, they're a dime a dozen these days and it fosters no sense of community."
"margin trading could have issues with a secured wallet.."
"but not all personal wallets should be secured, just one."
"would be nice to have multiple divisions in personal wallets, savings/current account etc to stop ya accidentally doing something silly. and on corp account it would be nice and inline with common business practises, having dual authorisation for withdrawals on certain divisions, eg one director or other authorised member makes a withdrawal request and another has to authorise it before it happens.obviously as an option that can only be changed by the ceo or a vote!"
"good point"
"or you could just not give wallet access to corp members you do not trust."
"margin tradingso set up the order, then move all isk to the secure wallet where it can't be accessed."
"looks like it's just me that finds this annoying."
"yes, pretty much it's just you that find background graphics annoying.let's be honest, if an abandoned station has been sitting there for months and months don't you think someone's already come by and salvaged everything of value?"
"abandoned stations are just one example, recently create debris that perhaps the npc pirates have created (from civilian stations and ships) still hang about.dunno, i just think the potential of salvaging is being missed somewhat."
"i support more things than just wrecks being salvageable. it would be interesting and give salvaging more variety. the tutorial made it seem like there were all sorts of ruins to salvage but in reality its pretty much just same looking cans (or talocan ships which are pretty cool as far as cans go)i support this. and after all, asteroids in missions are salvageable, why shouldn't random space debris be?"
"thanks that's a good point actually, and considering the improbably nature of eve anyway (respawning npc's etc) why should salvage from ruins be available?"
"when i was a noob i was surprised you can salvage \"generic mission wreck small\" yet you cannot salvage \"spaceship wreck\". it seems a little silly not to, perhaps even for it to give only scrap metal i think it would still add to the game."
"not on board with the first point due to turning in the mish and warping back....but point 2 is a great idea...especially with the noctis so t1 rig prices don't crash.make the ratio for conversion high tho."
"well, one idea is that at the 2 hr point when the wrecks would normally dissapear, then it would turn into a site for the hordes of noctis to fight over. maybe let the site last for 30 minutes, sure thats more than enough time for most"
"this.just i would put in 1-2 hour instead of 30 min."
"well with the noctis in game, they have little excuse of not salvaging before turning in the mission."
"support converting salvage into better salvage with bpo.also support unsalvaged fields turning into abandoned battlefields... but not as soon as you turn in the mission.i like the idea of giving all wrecks additional time till decay and that time activating 2 hours after they are generated (when they would normally vanish out of existence); in this additional time, they turn into blue wrecks (or white?) anyone can have.i don't support wrecks going white/blue as soon as mission is turned in, at all."
"go do ninja salvaging? how do you expect this to work, if somebody is going to leave the wrecks you can just ask, there are channels for this, even a forum post, ccp doesn't need to waste time making sure you make some easy moneybeside people salvage after completing missions very often, because then you can use a mwd"
"why spam other players with salvage requests? if i blitz a mission i don't want to make a hassle out of letting others have my salvage, i would like it if they can find it on their own.and if someone likes salvaging why should they be forced to do ninja salvaging? it isn't as if this will stop people from ninja salvaging. also as others have noted this will not be easy money as the prices of salvage will drop, but i hope it will be a decent income. i think that in many cases salvaging with the new salvage ship is faster, so usage of a mwd isn't necessary anymore. and you can still salvage the wrecks after you turned your mission in, but you will be competing with others if you're slow."
"if you want to expand the salvaging profession, come up with a plan that doesnt ride on the back of mission runners. mission runners already have more than enough to contend with due to ninja salvagers and no support from ccp to flag said ninjas as thieves.-windjammer"
"if you wanna salvage a mission run your ****ing own. parasite."
"i do, i am primary a mission runner. i just salvage very efficiently and thus its no problem for me to get what i want before i turn a mission in. i can give you tips if you need them."
"supported."
"supported."
"supported"
"supported."
"idealsupported"
"this"
"its there any chance of frighters getting some mids slots? just purely to allow for shield resistance modules, as it begs believe why anyone would fly so much valuable cargo without some defence."
"my guess would be no, there's no chance."
"the defense is built in with the ship, having 2-3 times the ehp of most bs."
"1. scout2. scout3. did i mention scouting already?4. dual web daredevil or rapier for insta warp.5. scout6. in hostile area (low/nullsec) warp the freighter to mid warp safespots and wait there until the scout reports that the gate is safe. the freighter can align towards the outgate once it is out of warp and doesnt need to be webbed again. and you can log off relatively safely.hope this helps."
"probably not. also having more defenses on a freighter will not help it live longer.lastly why would they add only mid slots if they were going to add any slots at all and not lows?"
"please support your local militia groups."
"supported."
"supported."
"if only eve had a ui design team, they might have thought of this."
"a subcscription info in api. such as expiration date.so we can see it in evemon along with skill time remaining, for example :)as outgame reminder and because it's handy, especially for many accounts, to track subscriptions in single, and easily accessable window..."
"already done. see"
"well said, nevertheless"
"i like learning skills.i dont want get rid of them.i dont care if i am minority, thats my humble opinion.i vote no for removing them. i know the pros and cons. +1"
"friend, they are already going, no voting in the world is going to change that.i have smacked up the learning skills myself, invested tons of time training them, and i am more than happy to see them go."
"this is completely useless because if ccp wants to go fully into micro-transactions and that is their decision then they will void any agreement they have made before. do you think if ccp were in a bad financial position that they would choose bankruptcy over some silly forum promise they made a few years ago to players who don't play anymore? i'm sure ccp has read the report that says in 5 years virtual goods sales are projected to exceed $15b and to be like 85% of of total revenue. so my theoretical scenario is not so theoretical. there is a huge graveyard of video game companies that blindly followed the crazy whims of players instead of being the best business they can under their goal of creating a video game they like to play.your other fail assumptions are that the csm are supposed to play an oversight role in ccp and that the csm adequately represents the playerbase. even the freshest noob knows that forum polls are useless and that the vast majority of the playerbase does not even know what the csm is let alone vote on it.your last item doesn't really make sense at all, it is just technical mumbo-jumbo. ccp monitors the price of plex? lol, are you very new to this game? you don't remember 90d gtcs for ~250m? who are you to decide what plex should cost, where is your market data? you want ccp to care about each players individual financial situation and price plex accordingly or something? lastly, ccp clearly spelled out in a few paragraphs what their intentions are for microtransactions. the dev blog is here, i link it because i don't think you have read the entire thing. it explains everything. it was written well after all the whining and crying of the anti-microtransactions crowd. note i am part of the anti-microtransactions crowd.dude, i'm against microtransactions too, but ccp have heard our objections and have responded the the playerbase in an appropriate fashion. i feel like this is a thread from 2 months ago."
"i've read the blog and it seems that parts of the suggestions i made before this blog are already partially in harmony with what they've written. i do not see the problems with this post.that all items purchasable using microtransactions be vanity onlytick.that ccp actively monitors the effects of microtransactions on the cost of plex and the market, and acts accordinly to ensure there are no adverse effects using all resources at their disposalhalf tick.that the csm must be notified before any new microtransaction or microtransactional mechanic is introduced to the game (to avoid any more marketing nightmares, and \"oh, we didn't expect that!\")before any microtransactional item or microtransactional mechanic is introduced on the test and live server ccp releases the details and reasoning via the csm to the playerbase to gather comments and suggestions before its release.tick, tick.looks good to me.after everyone gets used to microtransactions ccp will introduce something that is in the grey area of vanity/ non vanity and if theres no outrage nor complaints it will only be time before we eve gets fullblown mts. there is no reason to stop monitoring this subject or continuing discussion now that they've posted their intentions.cerbus."
"as i said in the thread in my sig about this.. go for 12/24hr plex (get rid of the 30day plex) and i'll purchase the odd ship paint shop with it"
"converting plex to new currency would definately be required, but im not sure about reducing the plex time they've already messed with it alot."
"like mynxee, i have some concerns and quibbles about some of the op's suggestions.however, as long as i am on the csm, i am going to push for accountability and will do my best to ensure that ccp is under no illusions about the potential effects of their decisions regarding mt."
"care to expand your quibbles and concerns so that we can see where you stand?i realise that there was a dev blog made after i made this post but its still relevant, and i've yet to edit it as there are partial successes which i've highlighted in the posts above for vaal."
"when we logout our char diseapear after 1mn most of the time, or 15m if we have a pvp timer.but there's also some bugs, and i'm sure some of you saw one at least once...like seeing his corpmate still online 1h after he had left, waiting for someone to kill him.there's also a little doubt when we logout, as that maybe we gonna take a 15mn timer and not 1mn.but to be sure all is fine, we don't need something complicated :we only need a little icon and/or text on the character selection screen, where we can see if the char is still online or have already disapeared from the game.interest : you have a doubt on the situation of your char on a dangerous place ; you check this and you'll know for sure.you are switching char and see your alt is still online, then you can login and move it to a safer place before it's too late"
"macro miners are paying customers just like you. why the discrimination and hatred. macro miners should post to request normal players are banned."
"most macros have programmed randomization to make this impossible.in short, there's no way to actually detect them short of installing a rootkit on the pc, and screw that. i don't really see much problem with this solution provided the afk timeout isn't long enough to actually compromise someone's play (if for example, they idled the client all day and made some clicks here and there every 10-15 minutes)."
"i agree with the idea but not the way you wish to do it.as some people play more than others.... the basic way to tell the difference between a macro and a human is routine, both the macro and the human have routine but one is tied to code and there for will strictly followed the other is human and therefore has judgement. if you simply had a program that just checked people killing npcs and watched them, you could easily tell if they are a macroer or a human. if theres a mass log in a system and all the accounts are tied to one ip then investigate"
"but then how will i afk cloak? i need to terrorize null sec residents while i'm at work."
"this implies that ccp is interested in getting rid of makro users.they dont show to me, that they really are. for me it looks like they dont care."
"nice.. 3 answers so far who didn't read the op and simply stated that their afk'ing will be considered macro.. lol"
"and to accept autopiloting as afk.i think ccp is already doing something along those lines. the problem is that after detecting the suspicious accounts they need the manpower to check them to see if they are single players running a homemade macro (so people that will get a temporary ban) or members of a rmt cartel, so worthy of further investigations so that ccp could ban the whole ring and not the easy to replace miners/ratters. the key word is manpower. people cost real life money, ccp is a company and profit is the main goal, so there is a limit of the resources they can and will spend on fighting macros. note that even if ccp is using that kind of scan routine for macro they will never say that they are using it. that way it will be easier for the to catch the home made macro (\"professional\" macro users, i think, are perfectly aware that running macro 23/7 will flag them as suspects).automatically banned for a suspicion .... noif ccp were to implement that they would get tons of false positive and spent a lot of time and manpower 8again) to sort them. the net result would be less people fighting rtm and more people following petitions from banned people. exactly the opposite of what you want."
"ccp (thankfully) is already putting alot of effort into catching rmt rings. i know that macros are a different priority for ccp as it does not directly affect their income. thats why i suggested that they implement this program which means that they don't have to use up much, if any, manpower at all combating macros.i probably should not have used the term 'suspicion' in retrospect:lets be honest- can you think of any excuse for anyone being able to play eve constantly for an entire week with only 1-2 hours of sleep every day? (i did search for sleeping disorders that means that it is impossible to have more than a few hours of sleep every day, but there just aren't any)sure, a few adults are able to survive on 4-5 hours every day, but they only do that because they have busy jobs or duties. at that point, you have to ask- if there was someone mining or ratting for 22 hours every day, would you think its someone who can survive on just a few hours of sleep constantly, and spends all his/her time playing the same game for 22 hours every day, or a bot?i honestly don't think there would any false-positives at all at that point. hardly a suspicion & more like a certainty.in that case i do agree that it would be a waste on ccp's resources making it petitionable, as all the petitions would be from the macro users trying to blag that they were not using macros."
"my suggestion is to show the number of a slot in the front interface (where you can see your capacitor, shield, armor, modules, etc). this way you can easily figure out what module is being used in another object (like which turret is firing at an enemy). also, it'll be easier to know in which position each real module is placed."
"what? you're going to have to go back and explain that - because i don't really understand why you would even think it's necessary."
"i think he refers to it being possible to tell which module, gun, tractor, etc is active on what.if you have done salvage its very obvious why this would be useful. very support."
"an example is during the salvage. suppose you're targeting five wrecks, but has only four tractor beams. one of the wrecks is really close and the other four are far away. the one which is closer come in the range of the salvager, and so you want to release the tractor to pull another wreck. but how do you know, visually, which module is being used in this wreck?another example: by fitting the modules for the first time, they are organized in the same order in the fitting screen and hud. however, if you change their positions in the hud, there's no easy way to know how the organization of the hud and the fitting screen is related."
"you see an icon of a tractor next to the locked wreck. you click on the icon. the tractor turns off. then you get a beer. not supported."
"why don't make it more obvious and easier?"
"because there are bunch better things ccp can work on. like fixing actual problems with eve, not you being lazy."
"i have done salvage, it is possible to tell, and it's easy to turn off an individual one.what is more obvious and easy than \"click the icon next to the target you care about?\""
"i.. didn't know you could do that. you live you learn, also, thanks.still don't think it would be a bad idea to be able to push a hotkey to see the slot numbers of the modules tho. or that it would be particularly hard to do if the interphase already tracks this."
"and i wouldn't be lost when trying to arrange the order of the slots."
"fixed some spelling and grammar in op, added jai di's suggestion."
"in short: a script which when fitted to the cloak module would allow a ship to masquerade as an entirely different ship type.in formulating this proposal, i envisaged scripts being used in conjunction with a new 'holographic projector' module, but with further thought, i considered that the concept works perfectly well to extend the existing cloak modules.each script would represent a specific ship, so by loading an 'iteron v' script, any ship with an active cloak would appear to be an iteron v on scan, in the overview, and on visual inspection.the scripted cloak suffers from all the existing down-sides of a cloak. - no other modules may be active while it is enabled - ship speed is reduced while the module is active - no warping while the module is active - scan resolution is reduced while the module is fitted - for a period after de-activating the module, the ship is unable to lock - after de-activation, the module has a cool-down period during which it may not be re-activatedthe module shuts down as soon as the ship receives damage, another ship comes within 2km of it, or as soon as it is locked. naturally it can't be activated while the ship is locked.the specialist cov-ops, recon and black-ops ships should probably (though not necessarily) receive the same bonuses thay gain with cloaks; such as being able to warp while the module is active, or being able to lock faster after 'uncloaking'."
"i wonder why nobody else ever had this idea before."
"so you are sitting in your manticore and on scan you see a nyx ?funny idea. some carrier in system might also delegate some drones for me ?that will confuse everyone. still i like that.+1"
"brought this up years ago, actually.the script itself would be sold naked (so only one db item on the market), it is 'set' by scanning a target with it loaded in the cloaking device (or, perhaps, just selecting via a drop-down).main limitations would be hull class:ships would only be able to 'hide' behind sigs of equal or one less hull size. (ex: bs could hide as another type, or a bc, but not a cruiser or a capital)."
"why limit masquerading to the same ship class? a titan can currently dissappear *completely* from view by activating a cloak. why wouldn't equivalent 'technology' permit it to look like a frigate?"
"i think i'm not the only one who thinks that missions are a bit boring and monotonous. also, as it stands now, you are a single hero (i know that you can fleet up and run missions cooperatively, but still...) killing swarms of evil npcs. i propose a new type of mission - support. the basic idea would be that you would be directly helping one npc faction fight another one. what i mean is, that you would get the mission from an agent as normal. warp to the mission location where there would be ships form two npc factions fighting each-other (one of them would be friendly to you). mission objectives could include helping the friendly npcs win, or not let them die. tactics to achieve this could be: 1) help kill the other side faster to not let your guys die; 2) give logistics support to keep your guys alive, so they can kill the others;3) combine the above.not sure if these missions should be just normal or storyline only.anyway... this is just a rough idea i had. im sure it can be refined and that it would involve balancing the npcs and what not, but still i think that it could give mission runners something new and interesting to do.p.s. i may not have missed some significant point why this couldn't work or be unbalanced, so please point out the flaws."
"i want to see more variety in missions as well, courier and trade missions suck and kill missions are the same old \"kill and loot\" or \"kill all enemies\".having friendly npc's in missions would be great, perhaps just something like a detachment of frigates to help tackle the enemies frigates in l4's, or an ewar cruiser to help you tank against the entire room.i would also like to see more use for more industrial ships in missions, like dropping off a group of goods to an outpost in space (rather than station to station). or perhaps using a logi to repair a damaged habitation module etc.lots of ways they could improve missions, especially ones which don't require you to kill things."
"but i love my t2 armor and shield bots..."
"another problem with faction standings is when you do missions against a race(not factional warfare, i'm talking npc) you lose standings, people like traders and miners need access to all space. i don't think you should lose standings to a race for defending yourself during a mission."
"isn't this why there are courier missions? they don't require combat, and give positive standing.."
"you're not defending yourself, you're going to them and attacking."
"storylines make you lose standings, even courier storylines."
"i agree faction navies should attack and station services should be lost."
"well one of the conditions to be met to accept a contract and claim the bounty could be that you have to hold a +5 with the corporation who's station was used to create the contract, npc or not.theres enough npc corps that arent widely used for mission running in each faction space that itd require any1 trying to claim it to have to build up standings. and i do mean corp standings not faction standings.it makes sense cause if you're handing over wads of cash and others you'd want to know that the person checks out.plus the remosval of the bounty advert from capsuleer info would help with reducing the number of alt claiming alone."
"i like your general concept but it can be made a lot simpler and fix the \"have a buddy kill you for the bounty\" issue. you put the contract up with a isk value attached to it. up to the amount given in the contract every time the player is killed by whoever claims the contract they get no insurance and the bounty hunter receives isk in the amount they would have gotten. also accepting a bounty contract should provide reciprocal kill rights on both the target and the hunter. so for an easy example, bounty on playe x is issued for 1 million isk. player y accepts the contract and pops player x. player x's insurance payout should be 500k, but he gets nothing. player y gets 500k isk. bounty on contract is now 500k. player y can kill player x again if he'd like. and so on. bounties actual work as intended, they hurt. it provides an isk sink. and before the \"no insurance isn't fair\" bs miners have been getting ****d by the insurance system in hulkageddon for a while now. i don't care about it but if its good for the goose its good for the gander. love your idea about state issued bounty contracts. i'd say one gets issued at random for -10 players and for everytime an enemy of a faction enters their space with a cap of once per day, one contract at a time."
"macro miners - live in high sec (mainly) leech all the ore, lower mineral prices, screw up the marketmacro ratters - live in lowsec & 0.0, kill all the ratsmacro haulers - live in high sec doing courier missions or trade goods exchanging while travelling to lowsecmacro industry - i came across this yesterday, \"a script so useful to 0.0 mega alliances, you would be a fool not to have\", it allows 'elite players' to use the same function from one scientist to another, very useful for pos related stuff, moon management with a few clicks :pthis can also be used for other stuff too, it is basically a multiboxing benefit, sadly you need a brain in order to create scipts so i doubt most alliances (despite what i have read) use this, though it would make their industry instant.some of these botters rmt, ccp only seem to ban rmtrecently an article was made on evenews24, now i dont believe the crap that was written on there, since evenews24 source is shc or kugu and kugu is known to troll through articles, you know when you have that german buffoon making a thread that it is obviously a troll.but i did have a look at certain macro / bot sites and i was really concerned about something, personal scripting sites had approx 3k+ active subscribers to the eve package alone, in order to use their ap you needed an active account too, normal botting sites had well over 6000+ downloads of their eve bot.lets assume all those botters are happily botting 23.5/7 since why not, ccp are obviously only banning rmt only, that means approx 10k+ players are botting a day, approx 20% of the online population.there is many steps involved with these bots in order to make them work, alot of requirements at the client side are necessary, as i mentioned yesterday \"inability to pin menus\" no this doesnt mean moving the ui, it means making them solid (no background). it appears this is a major problem that causes most of the issues in the bot, if done incorrectly ofc.i would like to know how ccp are going to address the botting issue, not just the rmt issue like last year but the botting issue overall, unholy rage only targeted rmt it didnt target normal botters.there is an awful lot of pressure on 0.0 with the removal of bots since all these websites claimed to help 0.0 alliances with 'mass' production and income.there is a saying, \"if you cant beat them, join them\", so explain why normal eve players should play normally when bots can freely bot and ccp do nothing about it. on these websites there isnt a single \"i got banned\" thread but there is several \"dont rmt or you will get banned\" threads, it is almost like the rumours of ccp approving of botting is true, but since they have openly said you can use macros if its on your keyboard why would it be accuratei really hope csm make this a top priority before eve turns into bots online which i am certain it will shortly be branded as."
"your missing the point. the warp drive must have coordinates locked on to activate. when you create a bookmark, the coordinates for that bm are stored into the ships computer.the warp drive cannot activate without locking on to a set of coordinates.when you double click, you are manually piloting using the sublight engines, which has zero to do with the warp drive.however, i think you could make up a bookmark (ie edit the coods in it to something random) and then have a safe spot in the middle of nowhere. but i haven't tried this yet."
"if i remember correctly from the science articles (its been a while)the warp core creates a sort of \"bubble\" around you that allows propulsion to operate without the normal physical restrictions on acceleration and mass. no inertia, no drag on the ship, and no increasing difficulty to speed up the closer you get to light speed. again its been a while but i think its described in terms of a super vacuum like bubble. you're thinking of it like you have your hand on some kind of accelerator and you should be able to just ease off the gas and stop. think of it like this. your warp core creates a bubble that moves with you of super duper slippery space and it has to calculate just the right propulsion so that you shoot across the solar system in the direction you want while the warp core gradually deconstructs the bubble so that normal spatial forces act to naturally slow you. but it has to have very specific reading on the start and end point to make the calculations correctly. note that the warp disruptor and scram modules operate by jamming the targets navigation computer, not propulsion systems."
"no, you're missing the point. a bookmark in empty space is in no way a reliable target for the navigation computer to lock onto, the way you explain it. but it has very detailed coordinates ... in empty space if you place it there. and apparently the very detailed coordinates don't need reference points to be created, i.e. you don't have to be at that point in order to be able to get the precise coordinates, because you can go to a place you've never been before and just right click on a tiny jetcan far away and warp to it. also, you can tell the computer to warp to that point, but at a pre-defined distance.now why shouldn't it be possible to tell the computer to warp to a point 2 au away from where my own ship currently is, hm?it's extremely trivial."
"ccp needs to make it where faction mods can be sold on the market like any other item. there goes 50% of all the spam in jita local."
"some parts of buildings are more critical than others."
"sorry, but this is a very lame excuse, not only, but also because the weapon always fires at the same spot. and even without talking about the visuals, it makes no sense to hit a different spot with every shot when you sit still in space and so is your target. you just don't barely stratch a space lab!it reminds me a bit of \"ufo: enemy unknown\", where your soldier could stand right in from of an alien, like 10 cm, and miss all the time with his laser rifle because hid aiming is 'not very good'."
"i don't think you bothered to think this through much. plus wall of text. if everyone gets put on a level playing field and you get your learning skill sp refunded and you actually got the effect from the learning skills while they were active you have already received an advantage over any newer player than yourself. even though your investment of sp did not yield precisely the amonut of gain you intended at the time you made it there is no dispute that the older player came out ahead on the deal. by your logic every game mechanic change should come with some sort of shiny for older players who were used to the pre-nerf. i didn't train rockets because they sucked, but ccp just fixed them. i would have made different choices if i'd known they would change and newer players can just train rockets early and thats not fair. this kind of argument goes on forever and never ends. the game changed for the good of the total player base, not one segment, and even that one segment comes out way ahead."
"woah wait. there's a debate? i thought it was just a dozen or so players who are angry that it's gone while everyone else is rejoicing its departure.pretty much every conceivable argument these dozen players have made all have been defeated with reason and common sense. so what is there left to debate?"
"might be your client doesn't bring up the image fast enough. i see mine leaving the hanger (which for amarr is just a giant hole in the bottom of the station).and the relevance of my comment was that it is perfectly realistic. you do not control the undocking sequence, so there would be no reason for your ships sensors to transmit visual data to you."
"the single point undock is totally realistic. what i would suggest to fix the clogging in a realistic way is faster ejection speed from the hangar and a wider arc of travel. prehaps an effect that moves ships in space further out from the station if they're sitting right in the undock era. the rationale is that in the era of tractor beams and whatnot no station would just give up control in the highly vulnerable area just outside its own docking exit. they would eject ships at high speed along different vectors to insure that they would end up well clear of the docking area. ships loitering in the undocking traffic arc would be locked up and pulled out of arc by the station to prevent collisions."
"this would, however, eliminate the ability to instawarp to a bookmark on undock, which would make station camping (in lowsec and hisec) much easier."
"oh my! what's wrong with your sense of reality? an automated tractor beam moving ships out of a hangar wouldn't move all of them precisely on the same line, making them collide if more than one ship launches at the same time! why can't you just imagine a scene in reality, ending with the state you have when you begin to see your ship in space, and realize how ridiculous it is?it's really hard for me not to become unfriendly, but i can't stand people becoming unbelievably creative in the aim to object or to tell why things are supposed to be impossible.@treborwell, station camping also could be seen as being a bit ridiculous in terms of a realistic setting. something would be done about it by the station authorities, or there would be other remedies. makjng one aspect more realistic might require others to be adapted and made more realistic, too, but it would be a win overall.if it is really necessary to quickly flee right after undocking, then you should be directed towards your (preset) destination while undocking. just one of many possible solutions."
"currently i'm using a corporation as a workaround, at the station where i'm mining and have kinda settled. i have to pay 2 million isk per month."
"by the way, improvements in that area could make another change less frustrating: i'd find it more interesting if asteroid belts were more like asteroid fields - more 3d. i guess it's the unrealistic shape it is in order to make navigation easier. but with proper collision detection, it would be awesome, navigating your barge among rocks, getting to where you want to go. could make mining more interesting.also today i visited an ice field for the first time, and i would call it an ice belt, or chain. looks a bit unrealistic, too, although because of the huge dimensions, it's more interesting short-distance.right now, mining in asteroid belts is a bit like dining at a sushi bar, where a conveyor belt brings the food right to your table. (i know it looks a bit more appealing in some systems, but the basic 'bow' shape seems to be the same.)"
"bump"
"i do not know what it takes for ccp and the board to notice this is a must, much favored and wanted! :(support 100%!!!"
"bump"
"one does not simply jump drive into mordor. why not... because you haven't got the range.black ops need a boost and ccp just ain't listening. perhaps with more micro transactions on the verge black ops might not only be useless they might have a stupid skin painted on them too"
"how about a different solution:allow jump drives to operate in high sec, and thus stop the funneling of valuable goods through camped gates in slow-ass weak tanked haulers. jump it from system to system using a jump freighter."
"supported. patently absurd to have your property destroyed in a criminal action by the police and then receive a payment from insurance.-windjammer"
"your right it is absurd for an insurance company to pay out to people flying their ships into warzones, like 0.0 and even missions technically, and losing them.remove all insurance and it solves the issue"
"i really like this idea. it's a good one."
"the only problem i see for this is it means near death for anyone caught missioning in low sec.in your system, it doesn't matter if they are aligned and moving, they still take the same time to warp. so someone doing a mission in low sec who gets scanned down might as well self destruct."
"you would be an invunerable target, so long as you were alligned and up to speed when u get jumped you'd activate warp and they wouldnt be able to target, much like when someone starts warping in the current system."
"imo warp visual dynamic needs a change, yes.i watched that... )uhhm... prophecy or whatever the other mmo was?) trailer and it had a relatively simple but spectacular warp emergence: the ship 'appeared', at it's full velocity, and slowed dramatically to where it was going to 'land' out of warp (the point at which it could be engaged). a small 'pulse' radiated outward from the point were it appeared followed by a dwindling wake as the vessel slowed.that would be quite spectacular and could be replicated with a few alpha shaded 'shapes' (rather than particle effects). smart-bomb like pulse for emergency, and an expanding 'cone' to replicate the velocity falloff wake.ships have disengaged themselves from the sidereal universe, after all! going into and out of the warp envelope should be more spectacular than 'ship accelerates away and gone' or 'ship comes onto grid and slows'.capital cynos need to have an even more spectacular effect... everyone on the grid should be able to see a capital arriving or departing. there's a *lot* of energy involved there, it should be unmistakable. even covert jumps should be 'visible' to anyone who might be near it.heck, cynos should be visible from aus away as a flicker if someone should be looking in that direction, even covert ones... though perhaps on a time delay of minutes, hours, or even days."
"as a caldari, i fully support this 100%. also, randomize the hit spots on the ship models. this is especially noticeable when people are using lasers - all targeting the same point on a ship model. same goes for where missiles hit. let's go for realism, randomize the visual location on the client while we're at it."
"absolutely support the missile swarm!no one uses defender missiles anyway so just make missiles act like delayed damage guns and give them awesome macross-like missile effects and let's call it a day."
"i think a lot of people came to the same conclusion when they saw the new fighter/bomber weapon graphics. replace all missiles with this technique, it'll reduce lag and look so much better!"
"yes!i personally think that missiles should be sorta removed as a clickable object in space *like fighter bombers* and have defender missiles sort of do fake calculations? like instead of it being a real timed event, make it pre determined with some sort of variation in the missile defender graphical output...ive heard that because missiles are a real object in space that this causes alot of lag... perhaps we can remedy this problem by removing them as a \"real object\" in space, rework the defenders, revamp the graphics. then we will end up with a awesomer eve!"
"anyone ever got a dev to tell us how missiles are done graphically?i mean, how hard can it be to leave the fancy first 2-4 seconds to be drawn/calculated by the client in a more realistic way?and when that's done let them come together for the linear 'fire-ball' the server seems to know, but cut off the explosions on the shields/hull once they reached their target (client side again only)./supported"
"i find this idea very promising, though i don't know enough about the client and programming and such to advance an idea on how that would work. however, given that guns are more or less 'instant damage' and calculate based on the position of the target ship (which presumably has only one position target-able) the ability to change the turrets to not 'focus fire' on single point can probably be changed without affecting any change on the actual mechanic of the weapons.if you've ever watched a miner, you'll know that the lasers will for small moments target different points on a roid as it rotates. this is because for a small time turret a is closer to point a whereas turret b is closer to point b on the roid. once the roid rotates enough, both turrets will focus on point b, until point c comes into proximity of one turret enough to switch it. this could probably be applied to ship combat forcefully so that the turrets must target different points.anyways...that likely needs its own thread! if you decide to make one, post the link here so folks can mosey over to it and support it!i appreciate everyone supporting this thread. keep it up, it will likely be awhile before this could be implemented but if we don't get support behind it csm won't propose it and ccp might overlook it! if the fb fix indeed proves to be the case for this idea, then that at least saves the dev some groundwork."
"/thread"
"im glad you're all for it then! make sure u check the give support button then! and just fyi, it may have taken a while to change rockets and cyno effects, but thats only 2 small things ccp have been working on in a huge list that you've decided to ignore!tho i have to say kaball, not too sure why you decided to multiply the lag duration by 3000 ships to get more ships? that did confuse me! either way its the best method ive heard for improving lag performance.due to the nature of the physical world you'll never ever get rid of lag totally so thinking laterally like this should be the way forward!"
"how exactly does it scale then? i'm no network guru, but intuitive reasoning suggests that if you have x% more time, you can handle x% more events. yes, once you get past the number of events you can handle things start crumbling, but that's the essence of the idea.if you have something other than a 'this is a fact' statement and a number pulled out of thin air, please share. there's quite a few of this seeming to lack this insight."
"supported"
"thumbs up. this is an awesome idea. i would rather play a game that felt like slowly pouring treacle than a game that feels like slowly pulling teeth.i like the matrix element too... flying a tackler in slowmo has to be fun!i see what people are saying about the reinforcements getting there in a timescale that is unlike the current game, but i am sure that any fleet commanders good enough to be handling 3000 player fleets are good enough tacticians to take this into account. also, i don't think that the difference would be too noticeable because although the fight should go on for, say, 5x as long as it would have if we were playing at 5s/1s speed, in reality the increased precision and predictability that each player in the battle would have when attacking things without lag would reduce this difference considerably.nice one goon!"
"thumbs up. ccp... read it, love it, work your magic. this boy has it going on!"
"i am a grown woman and i play this game. i also started this topic. so yes girls can want futanari also."
"nsfwand+1 do not wantedit: i have no problem with anything that goes on in private between two consenting adults (or one consenting adult and their computer screen.) what i don't want is people following me around naked rubbing their pixels on me <U+FFFD> la mortal online."
"pro tip: stay the flop out of gallente strip clubs then.also you seem to not understand the thread.nothing you have said so far should give you reason not to vote support the thread. nowhere did it say people would be rubbing themselves on you. the following is not part of this thread and should not influence your choice to vote.how it is implemented is not relevanthow it affects the rating is not relevant---this thread is about in very short terms \"optional nudity that also follows the preexisting lore of the game\" vote yes or no on that and that alone."
"hmmm maybe you want to nerf daredavil pricing too, and other 0.0 agents all over.. or even better maybe nerf high sec lvl4 missions because they pay too much for no risk.btw, on dramiel nerf not supported, plenty of counters in game to kill dramiels"
"huh? reading deficient i presume, so i'll elaborate.location of agents working for angels are more easily mission spammable (agent clusters).angels currently have 3+ times the number of blood raiders agents, 2+ times that of serpentis and 3+ times that of guristas .. the only other faction that is even close is sansha, but anyone familiar with eve history knows the reason for that (rp was huge in eve once upon a time, go figure).can you give me a rational reason for such huge discrepancies?even them out either by increasing other factions or decreasing angels and prices of the various faction hulls will equalize somewhat thus making the choice of an angel over any other less of a given.clear enough?"
"dramiel is op for whatever reason. double damage bonus, drone bay, ludicrous speed... i order you to stop!if daredevils are the counter of the dramiel, why aren't they all over the place, even with the triple damage bonus? because they are more balanced. fikz it."
"because daredevils actually have a good chance of dying when they commit to scram range (no dual prop, slower, vulnerable to neuts, much less range, no drone bay, no damage outside web range) where as dramiel is easy mode get out with more ehp and can beat most daredevils by starting the fight at 7-8km or so, takes the dd about 8 seconds to get into range even with ab/scram/web, more if it actually has a mwd fit, and by that time it has taken too much damage. tl;dr daredevils have a difficult time un-commiting from a fight, dramiel does not."
"/supported"
"dramiel doesn't need a nerf.maybe reduce the speed a little bit or something but that's it."
"you know, if they changed mwds to be less agile, the dram wouldn't \"need\" a nerf."
"increasing the mass on mwds to nerf the dramiel (and in doing so, nerf every other ship that fits one, end result, dramiel still op) to spite the dramiel is stupid. the problem isn't so much the dramiels agility - although that is a small problem in itself since nothing can really catch a dramiel in empire space save from ******ed sensor booster fits. the problem, as outlined in this thread.- it can do as much dps as most damage orientated interceptors- it has about 1.5x to 2x the ehp as most combat orientated interceptors- it is significantly faster and more agile than damage orientated interceptors- it can fit a dual prop while maintaining this ehp advantage (4 slots)- it has a lot of tracking/range independent dps (drones)- it can kite easily in scram range, and has a falloff bonus with autocannons so can do decent damage to the edge of this range.- it also gets a utility small energy neutraliser, and plenty of cap to run it with ab/scramthe counters to the dramiel (ab/scram/web fits) need to have similar dps output and ehp to the dramiel in order to actually kill it. this pretty much leaves the ishkur/jaguar/daredevil as the effective counters, fitted in ab/scram/web fits they are incredibly vulnerable to other ships in gate camps and in pvp, the dramiel has the option to entirely ignore them too. they also have much less options to escape than the dramiel.the dramiel simply does everything while having none of the weaknesses that the similar ships and counters to it face. the speed/agility on it means that it cannot hardly ever be forced into an engagement in lowsec space, and in 0.0 save from mass sensor booster recon/hac camps it is safe.so yes, it needs a nerf, i don't know where to nerf it, but personally, i think it either needs a mid swapped for a low, the drone bay removed, or the agility/speed toned down to firetail/rifter level. right now it does too much damage, with too much effective hitpoints, with too speed. it's ok for it to do 2 of those things, but not all of them while being able to fit dual prop and mse."
"eve needs elite ships, not just on supercap level.it's the most powerful frig, and it should be rare and expensive. it shouldn't be only fun to fly, it should also be fun to kill. and people always have a lot of fun when they kill something really expensive - that's why people wet their pants every time they score a mothership or titan kill."
"why the ship has 15m3 dronebay is beyond me... good dmg, best speed, capless weapons, good ehp and a very large drone bay for a frigate.... clearly op, anyone who thinks otherwise is a moron, nuff said. stop circle jerking to 514 cpp, lets fix simple balance issues instead of making console exclusive drivel that will be rolled by the next halo or cod clone."
"+100500, it's will be nice :)all support dron's must can help to owner of this dron's."
"support!"
"definitely do want."
"let the niiice dronies repair me .."
"agree!its a must!supported!"
"supported"
"+1, good idea."
"yeah i was pretty stupified when i found out that you cant repair yourself with them."
"1.0"
"i think this would be most useful not in combat or not even in pve but in mining operations. i can see using repair drones as a great asset for the noob miner who still can't fully tank tank belt rats but has the skill to field a few shield bots. i really dont see how you could use drones to repair yourself in pvp unless you aer just sitting around playing station/gate games, and if you need to repair yourself with drones during a mission or plex, then you are prolly doing something wrong and should go down a level or so."
"support"
"im to tierd to read more than the first post (been shooting people all night) but we do need a new mining system, i mean ive never talked with anyone that's a high sp miner that loves to do the actual mining... i have no ideas tho + im to tierd to raed what others write but probably some good tips for ccp in this thread"
"i agree and disagree on this...i disagree on not investing into your mining operation.this will devalue the balance between piracy and industrialists. something thats already hanging by a thread.making things needlessly complex? perhaps no.. but eve needs complexity. just the type thats easily understood. i do however agree that the current mining system must be tweaked to somehow make it interesting. i dont think adjusting yield values higher or lower is the answer though. making it longer for you to travel between the rocks (if i understood you right) will do nothing but decrease the yield. mindlessly flying between each rock also adds nothing but more pain to the whole thing...about scanable sites, i think it would be better or more realistic to include giant roids instead of multiple little ones. this would make asteroid belts more realistic. you would still be able to \"suck on fumes\" of little roids to gather rarer ore perhaps? another idea is the longer you spend mining one asteroid, the bigger and maybe better ore type yield.there must be a better way to go about this?maybe making a mining interface somewhat interactive?"
"as of now, i can run missions on my alt while i minefix that plz.however, i like being able to warp to a belt by rclicking space, so leave that function in with your random belts."
"i'm flying a maelstrom now and gave away my hulk because mining in eve is the most mindnumbingly boring thing i've ever done in a game.so thumbs up for this proposal!!!"
"hello.. im hoping to bring this issue into public attention.a while ago i remember the learning skills were something like (x5) or (x8)then they were wrought down to (x3) to make it more noobie friendly and what not. i swallowed that with a thought it will make eve grow. now that ccp has decided to remove learning all together, i feel slightly sour on this. i realize im loosing an advantage i had, but thats not an issue.x3 skills take considerably less time to train to lvl 5 than x5 or x8. the difference is literally goes into a monthly figure...how do i go around in making this public so that we are fairly compensated?"
"you get all the sp back that you put into learning skills. that is a fair compensation. that you had to train longer for them doesnt really matter."
"you are missing the point...i spent 1,280,000 sp to get a single advanced learning skill to lvl 5 when it was x5. (6,400,000 sp for a set of 5)now since the learning skills have been nerfed to x3, one advanced skill maxed is worth 768,000 sp. thats a 512,000 sp difference! times 5 for all advanced learning skills equals 2,560,000 sp ripoff...im sorry mate, but two and a half million sp calls for a second thought."
"if that's so it definitely has to be considered. i don't think that ccp keeps logs of when you trained a skill so how are they to determin who should receive a compensation? sure enough, there is a log, your training history but does it go all the way back to the start of eve? i doubt that.supported but you would need to find a way to determin who deserves the extra compensation.laxyr"
"considering that was more than two years ago (since they have always been x1 and x3 as far as i can remember) i think the statute of limitations on whining for compensation for lost skill points has passed. you should have done it then."
"ccp wants to compensate you for the time it took you to train the skill and they are doing so by returning the skillpoints you aquired. since the amount of skillpoints determines (in general) how long it takes for you to train a skill they are infact compensationg you for the time it took you to train the skill. if it took you more time in 2005 to train that skill you should be compensated for that accordingly. i'm not implying that we should factor in attribute values etc. because the differences would be so ridiculessly small compared to the learning sps as a whole. 2,5 mil on the other hand constitute a considerable amount of time that was sunk into those skills. by removing those sps ccp did basically undo the last 3rd or so of your training and left your overall sp in a state as if you hadn't trained anything in that time. i think people have asked for a compensation back then but obviously they haven't gotten it. i don't even know if i would be one of those cases but i do support the proposal nonethelessagain: i do not know if it's even possible to determine who is entitled to get the extra compensation.regards, lax"
"+1he has a point, he is totally right.i dont know why there is such a rush after so many years to get rid of the learning skills so fast.of course it might be difficult to find a fair way to compensate the right way, but i am pretty sure this is possible,"
"supported, but at the same time, this must have been changed a very long time ago, so the people that trained it then have probabaly gained a lot more sp out of them already, so i don't see it as a huge issue."
"i'm with de on this.utterly pathetic whine thread spotted."
"adv learning have always been rank 3 and basic learning have been rank 1 since 2004 and probably always were rank 1."
"i am tending to agree here with this fellow... but i /do/ seem to remember that the basic learning skills were at one time rather insane to train. there were huge threads on how soon you could recoup the time spent to train 'learning' to 5 (which, iirc, was a month at one time).it's one of the reasons i left off the advanced skills for years until i suddenly noticed that they were x3 and not so difficult to get up.i have not a clue when they made such changes but it was likely sometime around the exodus (an expansion that was anything but) release.so, the answer is simple: find out when the skills were changed (if they actually were), and credit anyone older than that with the old points levels and anyone younger with the modified totals."
"sounds good. doesn't change the actual bonuses, just lets the ships benefit from them across jumps. supported."
"true, it is not realistic, but it was well worth it!bump back up. surely there are more people that would want to see pod squashing return!"
"i don't know if you have played shattered horizon, but that has a nice get out clause which is a sound emulation. how it would work i don't know, but it at least makes it look like they made an effort to explain sound in space.anyway, the squishy noise was awesome."
"why did they ever do away with that very satisfying sound?"
"i'd even like to hear a nice sound when i got podded. lol - ill vote for the sound :)"
"it does... but it always sucks. :( a pod squish sound is not enough to turn it back on.i've played for years, and gone through four pcs in that time. not once did sound ever work right in eve.and, to my experience, eve is the only game i have ever played where the sound was buggy at all.with every expansion i turn it on and run with it for a little while to see if they've got it right... or even a tad less buggy. that experiment always ends within a few minutes as pointless."
"supported!!!!!!!!!!!"
"fully agreed. nothing wrong with some more pretty hulls to look at."
"crucifier too. :("
"just wanted to comment on the whole \"caldari just care about function!\" thing.similar construction == easier to produce == cheaper to produce == larger profit margin.if anything, the caldari design methodology should be about maximizing ship output while minimizing ship production costs. then you also take into consideration that aesthetics sell. that's why women buy the pretty pink razor that says \"venus\" on it when it's just another razor.not saying that there aren't going to be some cases where a perfectly symmetrical design isn't the best, but that doesn't mean it has to be ugly as sin. one of the most famous and beautiful scifi spaceships happens to be asymmetrical, and it does smuggling runs so fast it measures its performance in distance, not time.tl;dr - just give some of the ship design people a few gtcs and get them to redo the caldari ships, ffs :("
"i really like the moa, of course i don't understand why that ***** seems sticking out under the neck of the giraffe. however i really like the onyx look as well, i think it's a good ship."
"there has for some time been a steady decline in the useful of battleships in pvp applications across the board. changes to the class directly in some cases and changes to modules in others. when battleships were last looked at, the only tech 2 ships were interceptors, the only capital ship ever conceived of was the minmatar leviathon, tech 2 weapons were just an itch in tomb's pants, and the jovians were still relevant to the rest of us.a lot has changed since the days of 1400s one shotting orbiting frigs, cruise kestrels, torpedo caracals, ten berserker gankageddons, heavy nos actually being a good idea over neuts, and the infamous cavalry raven. battleships were once the absolute pinnacle of achievement for a combat character, and were for a time as hard to obtain and master as the titans were for their first year.now obviously we can't simply roll eve back to those days and i don't think anyone would actually want to do that, even the bs junkies. but there are other things that can be done:increase base scan resolution across the board by 100% (drake base 195 mm would still be higher)double the size of battleship drone bays across the board and possibly the drone bandwidth limits (not to exceed 125)give all battleships an additional 3 slots (default one slot to each power level, but not to make any power level have more than 8 slots)consider role bonuses to enhance particularly deficient battleships such as the megathron (perhaps an mwd bonus)consider giving battleship pilots the option of training up for and using a jump drive module series (low slot for the drive module itself, mid slot for the drive capacitor, and high slot for the drive navigation array) [possibly allow the jump drive to lock on to stars rather than cynos]i know some of those seem outrageous and collectively they seem overpowered, but consider the actual effect they will have. doubling base scan resolution still makes them target everything slower than bcs and below, it just doesnt make it take a ridiculous amount of time. doubling the drone bay size itself wouldn't change much other than allowing all bses to carry a larger variety and/or reserve drones, the bandwidth change would have to be reviewed case by case, but i believe all races should have at least one bs with 125... caldari where art thine?the three additional slots could easily be taken the wrong way, it would of course make bses stronger across the board, but what would the actual effect be? bs and bc slot counts are very close to each other giving the bc no disadvantage in versatility. fitting limits wouldn't change and overall the only major change might be a bit more damage or a bit more tank. the point is to increase options and to get further from the idea that there is only one or two viable fits for each ship. basically to increase versatility overall.the jump drive thing is sort of a pet project of mine, i believe all ships should have them and i believe it should be the primary method of interconstellational/interregional travel. that said, i understand ccp will probably never make that happen, but that doesn't mean capitals and certain lame t2 bs should be the only ships with them. the reason i went with the idea of making it a modular system is so there would be a slot and fitting tradeoff in addition to the cost of cargo and capacitor and the fuel itself. the range of them should be somewhere between bo and dreads. the star lock idea is to promote smaller groups using this feature and to limit the need to dual box an alt just to use this. but as with everything else, it can be discussed further.the intent of this prop is to discuss the topic in a more official capacity and to not introduce ideas that do something to make bses op again."
"i of course will be supporting myself."
"battleships in their current incarnation will always have their role... but increasingly they are finding themselves marginalized more and more.just look at the various killboards to see where the venerable battleship ranks against battlecruisers and smaller ships.taken alongside the faster, more maneuverable, and almost as strong, battlecruiser one would question why they want to ship up to something so large and slow. and it seems that every new expansion introduces a new cruiser hull. many of those new cruisers can put out almost as much dps as some bs piloted by median skill level players (tengu: 500 dps. 'geddon w/ lev3 gunnery skills pilot: 550 dps) and that's nothing compared with a cruiser outstripping a bs entirely (rook v/ scorp) in every way. (yes, the relevant tech levels are understood. the bs should still do more than a cruiser, regardless of the cruiser's tech level)battleships do need to be re-examined to bring them back up to a 'combat threat' worth looking at rather than just another 'meh' on the field.as to what can be done... don't ask me. bs is not the only hull that needs a serous examination (destroyers, afs, low tier frigates)."
"this actualy has some good concepts i like the idea about being able to equip a jump drive even if its range is limmited to say 4 lightyears it would give thebs platform a mobility advantage while not having to increase its actual speed. i would also be interested in giving each bs a specific role it could play currently in my section of 0.0 a bs must be fit for make alpha or mega tank and theres about 2 bs that are used ( mini).it would be nice to have a heavy hitter class, a able to effectivly deal with smaller ships class, and a all around bs calss. to the best of my knowlage the scorp is the only bs with a dedicated role the rest of your options are varyable per bs they would be applied to , every one could agree that a domi has quite the buffer on drones and etc"
"supporting just because i'm having to pilot 57 jumps in a raven and i wish i could just jump there.ps: extra slots and some drone space for caldari. nice!"
"i said it before but it bears repeating: as a primarily battleship pilot myself, with years of experience flying solo or in small groups for pvp, there are 2 main factors that discourage me from continuing pvp with battleships:1) inability to achieve speeds and agility required to be competitive with cruiser sized ships. that doesn't mean i need battleships to be faster or even have same agility, just a smaller gap between the ship classes in order to have a chance at trapping them with smart intercept or evasive maneuvers. ever since the great nano nerf, the spread between possible speeds has decreased dramatically, so there's much less variety in tactics for small scale pvp.2) greatly increasing numbers of hot drops, that's been steadily rising as more people trained for carriers, dreads, motherships, titans. the hot drop mechanics are super easy to pull off and any ship - even farmer ravens, can easily fit a cyno. battleship, being larger and less agile target, makes perfect victim for hotdropping - just tackle it and light the cyno. there are no counters available to small gangs. the best way to avoid hot drops is to fly something small and agile, something that's not worth hotdropping.both of these things aren't hypothetical ideas, they are based on eve history and their influence on battleships in pvp can be determined by non-biased datamining.i'll address the main poster's ideas:*) \"increase base scan resolution across the board by 100%\"that's certainly a tasty change for battleship pilots. however it's impact on pvp dynamics would be near-zero. battleships don't need fast lock because they aren't tacklers. even the doubling of scan res would not make battleship effective tackler.*) \"double the size of battleship drone bays across the board and possibly the drone bandwidth limits (not to exceed 125)\"this change would mostly change the balance of power within the battleships, in some undesirable ways. mostly the gallente would be shafted. either way, this is another change that is simply too insignificant to impact battleship usage in pvp.*) \"give all battleships an additional 3 slots (default one slot to each power level, but not to make any power level have more than 8 slots)\"this change would have significant impact on battleship usage in pvp and even i cannot predict how. certainly it would make battleships more desirable, more used, but the balance of power between the battleships and other ships will change significantly.*) \"consider giving battleship pilots the option of training up for and using a jump drive module series\"this would hardly make the battleship more desirable for anything but fleet warfare. and alliance fleet warfare already has plenty of titans to jump bridge everyone where they need to go.the hole jumping mechanic in eve is pretty bad for pvp. it's unpredictable, it breaks continuity of force movements, it decreases value of strategic planning."
"back before dd change. to be dd-proof you needed to be a battleship. so they had that place. this changed and made running around in hacs better.then bombs came along which moreso are focused toward being anti-bs; as most hacs can just run.then fighter bombers came along which melted bs face. sure this one got fixed but it doesnt really address the total issue.on good side is how t2 hacs arent insurable and pvpers really hurt on losses. oh wait.. perhaps that's the deflation im seeing?my suggestion tbh is buff bombs to work against cruiser-bc sizes @ full damage. way better idea then destabilizing highsec bs usage by far."
"or just nerf bombs."
"and probes."
"these are good points. they mostly apply to fleet warfare rather than small gang, that's why i didn't think them immediately.if battleships were able to go faster and be more agile, they'd have more survivability against bombs and fighters. maneuverability is what makes hacs so good at surviving.alternatively, the other side of the coin is damage output. for some reason ccp really fears anything that increases damage. as a result, battleships barely do more damage than hacs or bcs, especially after you take tracking into account. their only advantage is ability to project damage at great distance - sniper fleets. would make battleships more desirable if their damage output was actually worth a second thought."
"i understand that the argument is that neuts are for some reason a necessary module to fit over almost anything else. this is because a neut is very powerful. i mean i always double neut fit my hurricane over launchers. i always fit a neut to my harbinger. etc etc. i think the main problem is simply a nos isn't powerful enough to choose to fit over a neut. a nos doesn't give you a really good defence vs neuts and only works when your targets cap is greater than your own which is a major flaw considering the amount of cap you actually gain.why not just buff the nos slightly to make it more appealing to fit vs a neut. or make a module like the capacitor battery also give a resistance to neuting to make those modules an \"option\" to fit over a cap booster."
"that is a pretty good description as long as we are talking about an idiot frigate pilot.a smart frigate pilot will laugh at the medium neut because he has his small nos fitted as he likes to engage cruisers."
"every frig has a utility high slot now? sweet"
"as already said, the problem is not the neutralizers, its the nos which is nerfed to heavy.buff the nos a bit and it will become useful again."
"so where to startfirst pointwho is the first ship type locking you on a gate? frigates, or generally first point on everything in 0.0, frigs or recons.really how long does it take you to tank a frigate with your super leet buffer..... oh and who said your on a gate every time. on a planet if i cant neut out a frig/ inty i wont get away cause he'll just point ya and kill your drones then slowly widdle you down. unless your fitting purger bs at which point you sir are failthird, bs can have a huge buffer yes, or they can have a decent buffer and decent dps. or they can be nano (phoons) or they can be active tanked. so so say your buffer fit and your fighting 2 frigs and you dont have a neut.you burn back to the gate and jump. the other frigate tackles you on the other side so you burn back and jump, rinse and repeat til your dead cause you have no reliable counter.active tank same problem cept you wont die you'll just tank them forever. nano you will die quickerno whats stupid is that frigate pilots think they should be invincible to bs, ab assault frig can already orbit a bs in scram and web range and not get hit period. frigates arent supposed to be the answer to every ship in the game.the counter to frigates is destroyers cruisers and neuts.the counter to destroyers is cruisers bc's and neutscruisers : cruisers bc's bs and neutsbc's : bc's bs and neutsbs : bc bs and neutscaps: all the above and neutssuper caps: neutssee a trend here neuts counter everything they arent a disadvantage they are a tactic. if you wanna use em fit a nos or fit a cap booster. if not understand that your fit is neut vulnerable. so instead of whining cause your interceptor/dramiel/ assault frig/ cant tackle everything in game risk free. learn to fly your ships correctly and fit to counter things you will expect."
"really odd to bump into this thread. i actually raised this topic in a chat channel earlier today... errr... yesterday now (my time-zone anyway)ccp seems to be taking a \"cheap\" approach to challenges -- gut the cap on a ship and it's lame. unless it's a passive tanked ship fitting something like projectile weapons or missiles that don't need cap to work.pvp itself is buffer/passive tank simply due to this branch of technology in the game and, as the game keeps progressing, the options for \"good fits\" for higher end encounters go more towards buffer/passive with no-energy use weapons systems.this drastically reduces options in this game. active tanks should be viable for pvp use and energy hungry weapons should also. either that or gut what passive and buffer can do while also drastically reducing what missiles and projectile \"no cost to use\" weapon systems can do. i'm less into the \"nerf\" school than buff so i'd be more inclined in adding mods or enhancing mods that beef up systems that require powered operations.for ccp's consideration: drakes are plug slow ships but fit massive passive tanks easily and use missiles so don't need much cap. is it any wonder these ships are popular when many pilots could fly far more powerful ships fitted with powered systems *if* powered systems weren't the huge liability they've been turned into? i think some re-engineering is needed but lets see if the nerf bat can stay in the closet. let's see if boosters and the like can get some buffing instead of gutting this system. it'll yield the same net effect but won't tick off quite so many folks."
"if all the questions on the quiz have one answer, it's a poorly designed quiz."
"very bad suggestion.- one of the few counters that work for bs against smaller targets.- cycle time on a heavy neut is 24 sec.- cycle time on a small nos is 3 sec. (means you get 8 cycles with a small nos between each cycle of a large neut.)- sometimes the only way to stop a ship/break it`s tank is to destroy it`s cap.- cap warfare against capitals would be a pita!- the ship who is using the neut is also loosing cap.a change like this would make smaller ships overpowered. nerfing everything that works against smaller ships will make bigger ships obsolete.cant track itcant hit itcant nos itcant neut itweb has little effect"
"+1about time they removed the very last reason to let the pilgrim stay in game as is. not like it has much else of a use except \"neut with a cloak\" anyway..."
"cap warefare is overpowered.your own opinions bear this out.- one of the few counters that work for bs against smaller targets.what you actually meant to say was- one of the few counters that work for bs without having to compromise firepower versus enemy bs.* instead of taking max amount of heavy/sentrys/jammers take multiple flights of light drones.* fit assault missile launchers in spare highs gun boats* fit 220 vulcan ac's or medium electron blasteri know they are lol ideas.why bother doing any of that.just fit heavy neut 1 slot solution and dont compromise your fit.- cycle time on a small nos is 3 sec.(means you get 8 cycles with a small nos between each cycle of a large neut.)* only works for passive frig fits* the must fit solution for frigs to defend against the must fit solution for cruisers/bs** ( maybe irrelevant but fyi ) can be counter countered by carrying neut drones.i guarantee you will kill all frigs you come across in your bs if you use these.- sometimes the only way to stop a ship/break it`s tank is to destroy it`s cap.* and in doing this it is far too effective espcially against ships that dont have a mid slot spare for a cap booster another must fit module due to the op nature of cw* passive / buffer fits are fotm and will remain so for ever more unless neuts are balanced.imo. neuts should slow an active tank down not switch it off altogether.by neuting down to 0 cap recharge is switched off.by neuting down to a lower level it may be possible for an active tanker to keep some sort of rep going by pulsing the booster."
"yes i do, but the idea was to pay waaaay through the roof for a licence to kill 1 player. that would mean as a bounty hunter you'd have to weigh up whether its beneficial to gank sum1 in hisec."
"can you tell us all what they use?"
"oh and by the way...i think your full of ****. custom ui's dont work in eve!"
"incursus is a sexy biatch."
"it looks like the +1 dcu and +30% jump range bonuses were dropped (the 'unchanged' role bonus covers remote ecm, ewar immunity, and warfare link cpu), which leaves you with a supercarrier with tough drones, especially against aoe weapons, and the repping ability of a triaged carrier, but not the range. alternately, you can have slightly more damage than a non-nyx with dcus.of course, if the conventional wisdom is right, you do still end up with an inferior tank compared to other supercarriers. i assume it is; i've not had a chance to use supercarriers outside of eft."
"agreed."
"i am to the point that suicide ganking is so prevalent in the game (try moving goods through niarja) that it's making me consider quitting eve online.ccp, by restricting high security space, has made a condition where high sec haulers have to go through gates; as opposed to lowsec/nullsec where they can use jump drives to move expensive goods around. by placing this restriction, but not making the penalties and/or execution of a suicide gank difficult, this has become the most popular method for hijacking haulers.ccp has said that suicide ganking is not an abuse of game mechanics, and i agree... but it is a situation created by ccp's desire to create more \"secure\" space, and in fact it has failed and made this space less secure."
"don't haul around what you can't afford to loose and/or don't put all your eggs into one basket.use blockaderunners, transportships, covops, scouts, slingshotbyfriendlies, domorecargoruns/not even a proposal, just a stating of an opinion, reported to be moved"
"could always avoid niarja and/or not haul loads of stuff in a t1 hauler"
"hauling can be very secure in highsec, lowsec and even in 0.0 if done right. i leave 0.0 out for now 'cause the rules for haulers there are somewhat special (bubbles etc.).i've been travelling through high/low and nullsec in a blockaderunner for the better part of 3 years now and i have yet to lose one in high/low. in a br you are nearly uncatchable. i fail to see the necessity of changing... well what is it that you're suggesting?ofcourse, you have to train for t2 to get all that but that's the price you pay for safer/faster hauling.by making highsec safe to a point where suicide ganks on haulers are discouraged alltogether you're ruining many peoples playstyles. i don't exclusively talk about the gankers here. let me explain:i, for one, specilize in doing risky courier contracts. mostly high value low volume stuff from/to/through lowsec/npc 0.0. if my clients could take care of that by themselves i would be screwed. many of them are without doubt able to fly a blockaderunner but it takes additional knowledge to reach the destination (in an intact ship that is).my point is: everybody can grab a hauler to transport stuff from a to b but in order to get there alive he/she needs to have additionl knowledge (and ofc he/she needs to take advantage of that knowledge). otherwise he/she will keep losing ships at the same gate over and over again.regards, laxnot supportedlax"
"your opinion has been noted. was there something you wanted to propose, or did you just come in here to whine?"
"risk is part of the game and it should be.you should not be able to move any resource without risk in eve. you should be able to minimize risk if you are wise and pro-active and currently ccp has set up the game environment to match such a notion.most suicide gankers leverage the stupidity, naivety, or laziness of their marks to make their isk. there shouldn't be a game mechanic chance to fix 'stupid', 'naive', or 'lazy' behavior."
"i believe the point the op is getting as is that for someone to be suicide ganked in high sec usually entails little or no risk at all.the outcomes are guaranteed the isk is already prepared to be lost aslong as the circumstances are met. \"taking into account destroyed modules and cargo will i make more isk than i lose?\" suicide ganker proceeds to kill hauler, he loses his ship and his alt loots the wreck. alt stays in high sec and alt on -10 goes back to 0.0 with little or no risk involved, a wallet full of isk but nothing worse other than a global criminal cooldown for 15 minutes.i disagree with the op though, i don't think hauling should be made safer i just believe being -10 should have more of a punishment than it currently has. where as +5 has no bonus and -10 the scum of the universe can effectively travel freely through high sec and dock if they have nanofibers. in my eyes there is a balance issue, however it does not lie at the ease of ganking a hauler. that can be solved by previous suggestions of t2 hauler, freighter, instawarps etc."
"since nobody else asked: can i have your stuff?"
"the question to as is \"can i haz your un-suicide-ganked stuffs?\""
"apparently it's more widespread than we ever imagined.a simple change to limit the use of one module, without gimping active players, is met with lackluster response.heck, not even the flames one might have expected.so, it would seem that macros [ratters] are widely used and ubiquitous.where can i get one now?"
"so. that still doesn't change the fact that you want to change all cloaks (cept cov ops ones), and the cov ops cloak requires cloaking 4, which many people don't have by the time the get into a cov ops ship.hence, you are gimping anyone who flies those ships and doesn't have cloaking 4."
"quoting: \"cloaking devices allow a ship to maneuver while remaining completely undetectable by outside sensors.\" this is a powerful device.1. currently some gate camps use other means of catching cloaked ships by placing wrecks or containers, this anti-cloak gun is similar to that tactic. to answer your question on the contrary, my cloaked ship has never been caught, but it's not about me or you it's about the cloaking mechanic and experience.2. we differ from opinion here, i think it is. catching cloak ships is like a game of hide and seek, although the options for the seek part are underpowered. realistically the anti-cloak gun works a bit like a sensor dampener it shoots a cloud of particles into an area, which has a de-cloaking effect.3. if you fit to fight and add one prototype cloak to your ship, you have a powerful means to attack any unguarded or defenseless ships that needs to be moved. it looks a bit like docking games, which is not very exciting.4. it's not all about stargates, it's also about all the other places within a solar system. hmm you need 4-5 coordinating pilots to catch only 1 pilot with a success rate of 80%, it seems that cloaking is more powerful then the means to catch them in this situation."
"prototype cloakers cant really escape any relatively decent 0.0 camp, they cant warp cloaked so its therefore useless catching any non-idiot belt ratting or mining in one, and when they are cloaked they are slow"
"how about a couple different changes.1) let ecm burst knock cloaked ships out of cloak -- *if* the jamming effect works on it.2) apply a negative modifier to sensor strength while cloaked -- cloak type dependent penalty.so when you cloak, your sensor strength goes down, making you more susceptible to ecm, but only aoe effects might hit you (and anyone/anything in the area -- friends, etc...) -- you already cannot use eccm while cloaked...cloaks are listed under sensor equipment so it has a kind of logic to it and ecm burst won't take a cloaked ship out of cloak right now. no new equipment, no real major changes to game logic -- add a mod to the sensor strength and apply existing mechanics. just count the cloak as an \"omni\" or \"self\" targeting/targeted system while running so if the \"targeting\" is lost, the cloak turns off.as for searching... well, you'd have to pray and fly ships around popping that slow firing ecm burst. sorry but i don't think anyone deserves a 100% freebie kill on cloaked ships and even this suggestion gets close to \"can't get by gate-camps\"..."
"so this is basically a huge unneeded buff to gatecamps and doesn't address anything that people actually have problems with (like afk cloaking). not supported"
"i like this idea.the nerf is as big or small as you like, the characteristics of the anti-cloak gun can easily be adjusted. it does address the afk cloaking, it gives active pilots a chance to search all known warp spots in a solar system.p.s. a weapon to de-cloak ships has already been developed but was not tested thoroughly to be implemented. the range and use is less sophisticated than the anti-cloak weapon that is presented here."
"right i'm willing to support an anti cloak pulse of sorts if it has not more and not less range then 15km and can not be activated with any gate station etc in range does not uncloak ships that got cloaked via gates it has to use big amounts of cap id say about 60% and on top has a cool down of at least 2 minutes and it has to have a activation timer of maybe 30 seconds after warping in or uncloaking.on top of that i want cloaked ships to be able to use cargo and ship scanners while cloaked(scanned ships would get a mesage that they have been scanned) that way those modules get a real use and cloaky ships get a more of a thread =)oh and i highly support the removal of local in 0.0 and maybe even in low sec of some sortps:i am fully aware of the consequences the above stated things would have"
"the anti-cloak gun can not be activated within 10-15km from a stargate center, which is similar to the cloak function which can not be activated within 2km from an object. added to proposal."
"thought of something that might please everyone....when a pos runs out of fuel - the strontium degrades at a rate of ( 1 hour = a day )...so you lose an hour's worth every day.if the strontium runs out - the pos is somehow claimable.so lets say you had 15 hours of strontium in your pos. that would mean you have 15 days grace before the pos can be claimed and unanchored by someone else.-just a thought."
"/supported.i lost count how many times i've come across an abandoned pos tower in wh space."
"i would much prefer a speed decrease than a signature increase. take the onyx for example, rigs + 3 lse, 139 sig > 247 (l1 rigging). with a some basic missile skills you'd be hitting near full damage with cruise missiles (though who would use cruise). look at other battleship weapons etc.i really don't think armour mods need any more boosts unless shields get a look in. sure the passive shield tanking is a great bonus but who uses it other than possibly a drake or rattlesnake? afaik nearly all others are shield boosted for pve or just a buffer fit for pvp which is severely hindered by the \"features\" shield buffers suffer from when boarding in space/fleet bonuses or having inflated sig radius instead of speed bonus.yes because jumping into a buffered torp raven or any ship for the like of that which isn't even closely geared to a passive regeneration tank is a good thing to have when you only have 40% of your buffer if not less due to the shield issue of bonuses. so no... like previously said, what ships other than the drake and possibly the rattlesnake realistically use a regen for pvp or pve? it is no where near as big of a bonus as people make out if it means buffered shield fits are nerfed to high heaven everytime they jump into a shield wormhole bonus + fleet etc where as a armour tanker has that applied instantly. though the shield pilot has to wait till next week for that bonus to help."
"nice alt of the op.like it or not... pvp'ers don't active tank unless they absolutely have too...and even then they are rather good at pvp'ing in the first place.why the hell do you think most pvp setups are armor plated/shield extended eh?go look it up yourself and spend less time spitting bs out of your mouth pal."
"thanks for supporting my point that active tanks are subpar when compared to passive tanks for pvp beyond very small scale fights. they are more grid heavy (excluding frigs and cruisers) and are much more slot intensive. there are too many drawbacks to active tanking these days, they need to be unnerfed. this is where i propose we start, a look into fitting reqs of the modules and fitting available for the ships that use said modules."
"i am not supporting your point...stop trolling.pvp'ers don't consider active tanking \"subpar\".... they consider it laughable and just flat foolish (9 times out of 10 as some do it but as i said they are damn good at it and have their reasons)because by the time you show up on the battlefield and someone engages you...and you turn on your little shield booster or little armor repper... your capacitor is going to be shot to hell because you don't have enough to drive anything else... and your getting nueted (likely).your ships too damn slow with all that extra crap for your tank so your going to get hit more often.and the list goes on and on and on.now some people have already brought some interesting points up on say shield extenders... but that's an entirely different ball of wax.depending on the situation your pvp'er is going to focus on a singular task... most of which is to kill you. not necessarily survive (its a \"secondary\" concern)... just kill you before you kill him (that's all there is to it folks). cause if he kills you first.... well obviously he will survive... but that's assuming solo 1vs1 there.those who typically fit active repping mods don't even use them until after the fight to do little a repairs in-flight.that and you should try fitting an active tanked ship in-spite of the fact it wouldn't work... just to see how much damage it causes to your overall fit in any number of aspects.like i said its not as easy as it looks.so you lower the requirements... it won't detract the problem with the balance of your fit either way. armor plating gives you a huge ehp boost... but penalizes your speed... small price to pay... your cap's unaffected...and you took a chunk of powergrid.armor reps only cycle so much hp every so often... but by the time you get a cycle out... your dead due to any number of possible outcomes.same with shield boosters.if your going to continue this little farce... then bother to list proposed stats so people have something to work with... just whining/crying for less/lower requirements isn't going to get you anywhere.again... your banging your head on a brick wall here... check battleclinic and all the other pvp fits that people post... the trends are quite obvious.it's not because active tanking doesn't work... its because its just not effective.remote repping however... is effective. which is why people do it!"
"i may be an alt, but not the op's, btw whose alt are you? your assessment of what 'pvp'ers' do or don't do is just flat out wrong, and your reasoning that all pvp setups must be able to tank a titans dd is just laughable."
"ok, so you say you don't support my point that active tanks are bad in comparison however you go on to say the exact same thing you denounced immediately after you stated it... come on man, i'm not trolling i'm trying to figure out how someone can be so two sided just sentences apart is all.you go on to explain all the faults of active armor tanking... so how are you against a buff to active tanks if you yourself claim that they are \"not effective\"? i'm failing to see your logic on that one."
"maybe you should try reading and doing your own homework nooblet.active tanking is not the problem.it's you.your refusal to understand the fitting mechanics of pvp style ships is the problem here.active tanking adds an unnecessary load to the ship when that energy needs to be dedicated to offensive weaponry such as tackle or gunnery.you would have to remove the consumption of cap from active tanking entirely before anyone would dare make heavy use of it. that would defeat the purpose of \"active tanking\" now wouldn't it?it won't matter what you do to the requirements or how you change them... that load will not go away.if you can't figure that out... then we're done here."
"stop trolling and please ready what you have stated in the past. my understanding of fitting has lead me to use passive shield and armor setups on ships that have bonuses that support active tanking simply because the fitting restraints of active tanking both by slots and grid/cpu does not negate the massive hit in short term survivability and the loss in dps due to fitting smaller than ideal guns and lack of lows.i do not think the solution would be simply increase the dps of tanks as that would lead to completely broken extreme setups (boosters, gang bonuses, and officer/faction kit). i instead think the issue is with fitting and how it should be eased to allow for more diverse setups while taking advantage of ships bonuses."
"active tanking is fine. for pve, which is what it is intended for.they are also good for situations where your enemy relies on dps to kill you and not dpv.there are no issues with armor reps if you have decent skills (and try to fit ones that are the right size for the ships).in short:pve/small pvp, active armor is fine as is.large pvp, active armor is a bad idea, period."
"thank you for the correction and yes, i completely agree with your assessment of needed usage. whichever way you slice it, right now if someone wants to see your fit or cargo, all they have to do is scan away and you are left feeling naked as a jay bird. this needs a counter to be fair and this is a fair counter."
"yes, ofc. scan blockers should also be balanced with scanners though. 1 module should not be all you need to protect yourself against anything, that would be like allowing you to warp away if you have a stab fitted no matter how many points are on you, never get jammed if you have a eccm fitted even if 1000 falcons with a full rack of your racial jammer were on you, have 1 cap booster keep your cap up against any amount of neuting, allow you to live nomatter how much you get shot if you have a tank mod and have cyno jammers that can not be taken down."
"that's true, 1 module shouldn't be a complete counter. that's why all reasonable mobile cyno jammer ideas imply short range of effect 15-30km radius, not system-wide.so to counter someone's cyno jammer, all you'd have to do would be to move 20-30 km away and light it. or have 2 people spread over 30km from each other, so a single cyno jammer can't get them both."
"i think this is one of the best ideals i have read in sometime. it would make high sec ganking more interesting and add to the smugling trade. as i would like it to block concord and fraction police scans as well."
"ya man i fixed your frieghter problem for you. i had a talk with ccp and they agre that all frieghters should lose all there slots. so they can fit no mods to them. is that ok?"
"i think this idea needs some tweaking. scanning already has a counter; secure containers. so there really is no need for it. but as long as we're on the topic...haulers may not realize this. but scanning does not always reveal exactly what is in your cargo. i have scanned the same ship multiple times and gotten different results each time.since the results are already somewhat randomized, how about a mid slot module that upon activation will decrease the accuracy of the scanning ship's results? it should have an obvious visual effect so that the scanner knows he is being scrambled and can decide if that ultra-rare 30bil isk officer module really is in that kestrel. have it use a good deal of cpu. not too much grid. it should use a little bit of cap per cycle. each cycle should be 10-20 seconds i think. auto-repeat defaulted to \"on\".i can just imagine all the lolz and tears coming from both sides of the gank.edit: supported, but conditionally."
"well, i'm always up for adjustments to my ideas. something like this requires everyone's input to make it fair and balance out issues. generally, i'm interested in making high sec ganking a more interested and risky endeavor, which it should be."
"secure cans do not prevent scanning, and the looter can still grab them.only ship (module) scans are randomized. cargo scans are not."
"yes, let's make them work like wcs. a scan blocker offers +1 protection while a scanner offers -1. this way someone who can waste 4 slots can put on 4 scanners. if you only have 3, they will punch through"
"any use for tsm gets a thumbs up from me. ability to turn shields on or off? very cool. for shield tankers, the risk of dropping your shields needs to be balanced by some payoff. shields should regenerate/rep while down.i also don't expect my shields to come on full power instantly. once the \"drop\" button is pressed, should it stay pressed? or should shields come on automatically after a period of time? perhaps this period of time is what could be modified by the skill?or, cutting power to shields is easy. powering them back up is hard. perhaps there is, as suggested earlier, a time-delay before they come back up, and that could be reduced by the skill?same effect, different implementation. i don't see this as being terribly difficult to program. bit-wise, its simply a switch that redirects all incoming damage to armor or structure, rather than the upper-most layer of defenses."
"supported"
"don't give account access nilly willy to everyone who joined your corp 1 month ago and got director..learn how to set up titles. there is no need to give your corp members access to more than 1 empty wallet if you got an industry wing which is running corp jobs (be it pos or not)./solution looking for problem, not supportedps: if you were talking personal wallet in case of key-logging, well, that's another story, but what keeps the key-logger from snatching that password too along the account password? tan-lists?!the only thing i can see working would be some kind of delayed extra account for larger sums (min. xx mill , if you want any transaction from this you have a delay of 24hr(?) until you can do something with the money)./this i would support"
"good point with the delayed thing, that would be cool to."
"yes pliz"
"yeah, exactly. i was thinking that the chances are smaller than normal wrecks but if they do pay out you get a lot of cheap salvage or a few more expensive salvage."
"moar woerk foar marr noctis!"
"supported"
"i seriously doubt you have any tips that we havent already reviewed. if youre not finding enough salvage running your own missions, its very likely youre the one who could use some tips. how a mission runner chooses to handle his/her mission is, bluntly, none of your business."
"sounds cool.make it probable after the mission has been turned in. might show up under magnetrometric sites then, with the mission name and battlefield upfront.. like 'magnetrometric - battlefield - damsel in distress (iv)'.might not even need an extended timer then, though 30mins would probably not too bad for the servers.if the mission runner wants the wrecks for himself he better starts salvaging before he turns the mission in."
"please get over your victim complex, i am a mission runner. and if you actually think about it these small measures will reduce the number of ninjas as most of them will be busy with the leftovers from blitzers. and if another mission runner has trouble with efficiently salvaging then i will be happy to help them. if they want to use any tips will be up to them."
"signed"
"like the idea, but i think there is already too many things on the right click menu.not sure how to get around this and i think your idea is good, just i wouldn't want it on the right click menu."
"allow us to customize our menus. some stuff there i never use.oh... supported."
"i'd like to have the possibility of adding a user tab to corporate hangar arrays, so that each user has a small bit of private space to store their materials in. ideally this would be configurable on a per hangar basis.this will greatly ease inventory management for wormhole corps, that now have to share tabs, or use secure containers to achieve personal storage space.directors should be able to \"claim inventory\" (for unanchoring purposes)ability to set max m3 reserved for the \"user\" tab (either in total, or per user)max number of users per array."
"on the in game map we get to choose alot of things but sadly we cant see the following\"number of npcs killed in the last 30 mins\"\"number of npcs killed in the last hour\"\"number of npcs killed in the last 24 hours\"for hi sec we dont have the following information\"number of asteroids depleted in the last hour\"\"number of asteroids depleted in the last 24 hours\"there are probably more stats but i figured these would make for a nice addition"
"hulkageddon season coming up again? hmmm... *snicker*"
"like most stats this can be used at a persons discretion ;) if someone wishes to use it for hulkageddon or afk cloaking then so be it"
"if i am not mistaken at least some of the top bit you were looking for (npcs killed) can be garnered from the api - at least that's how i assume sites like eve maps do it. never really bothered to ask.for the bottom one, is it really that hard to find a mining ship to gank? find a high sec system with a lot of people in it. check the belts. i mean you need to do some work for your ganks."
"thanks for assuming this is for ganks only and yeh i am working on the top one"
"also please add a tracker on the map for all reds/neuts on the map, ty."
"there already is a tracker lol"
"putting in an app from space isn't working for me. are you sure about this?thanks."
"not possible afaie(xperienced)..please visit your user settings to re-enable images.source:"
"that's what i thought ... in game people keep telling me otherwise because they remember seeing it in some patch message. much thanks for the confirmation. just wanted to make sure they weren't right and that i was just bugged somehow. saves me a long embarrassing petition."
"need more supercap pilot whinage... thus... no!"
"supported, i'm happy we don't have to collect datacores 1 by 1"
"good plan."
"two words: cargo expanders"
"i can tell you exactly why they won't add low slots or rig slots to a freighter. take a good hard look at the max cargo capacity of a freighter with max skills. now add 37.5% to it (the bonus from one cargohold expander ii) now compare that to the volume of a packaged carrier.iirc, i read somewhere on the forums that freighters used to have low slots or rig slots, and they were removed when the cap ships were banished from high sec."
"split the cargo up if you aren't able to use slingshot/scout or need to fly afk./solution looking for problem, not supported"
"thats why i was asking for only mids, i knew if you gave a frieghter lows slots and or rig slots, only one thing would ever be used in them. the duel web thing i knew about but is kinda annoying cause alot of frieghter alts are neuts. so the whole web idea isn't workable. and its still possible to gank a frieghter in high sec, you might need 25 guys but its possible. giving it the abilty to get shield resistance over 70% across the board would raise that number alot."
"well, i never understood why freighter and jumpfreighter dont have any configurable slots.i want high slots because i would like to use a cloaking device on it.i want low slots because i would like to use an armor rep on it.i want mid slots because i would like to use a shield booster.i want rig slots to put more ccc ore shield extenders or cargo expanders on it.why not ?otherwise just nerf the insurance for suicide kills in high sec.do not pay insurance to the aggressor at all.only pay insurance if you are not aggressed flagged, at least in high sec."
"freighters are fairly balanced as they are, considering they have 20x the cargo as even expanded iteron v. cloaking device is a definate no, lowslots are a definate no, midslots.... ecm burst would be p/ stupid. i honestly don't understand why you have a problem with highsec hauling in a freighter, don't carry 10b+ at a time? it takes several battleships, around a 10~ ballpark give or take, to be able to suicide a freighter, this means that the gankers have to be organised, cooperating, and need a prize which is going to equally compensate each individual member for their time and organisation, and bear in mind that some of the loot is going to be destroyed when the ship explodes, so you only really see valuable 10b~ freighters ganked."
"then send an alt ahead with a frig and let him check for large groups of bs on a gate. most freighter ganks happen on the in gate when the freighter tries to align for warp. so if you see 20+ bs sitting on a gate. warp the freighter to a safespot and wait. having mid warp safespots for your usual travel routes really helps.a way to get a quick mid warp safespot. warp to the scout while it warps to the out gate. once out of warp align to the out gate and be ready until the scout shouts \"gate clear\"."
"there are sooo many meta 4 items which are superior to their tech 2 while many others are not. while others are inferior in some ways while not in others. for example:t2 warp scram - 5 activation 9km range 36 cpumeta 4 faint warp scram - 4 activation 9km range 28cpuusing t2 scram is just plain silly.t2 warp disruptor - 25 activation 24km range 44 cpumeta 4 faint disruptor - 21 activation 20km range 32 cpubuffing t2 vs nerfing meta 4 doesnt matter to me. just makes game oddly more complicated. for it being all over the place."
"to add to your argument, has anyone, in the history of this game, ever fit a t2 armor plate?"
"i think i remember killing someone with those sometime..not sure..don't really care though."
"*bump for better proposal management"
"nestor.. before you want advanced technology for your militia mates, you might wanna teach them how the 'simple' voting/reply system in ah-fourms works besides that, yeah.. there are several occasions in game where you can rclick items and don't get a 'view market details' as option - that sucks./supported"
"to help with an fc's situational awareness, i propose an addition to settings on the ov only when in fleet, except they will be easily visible when looking at the solar system map and when just viewing space while in system.in my opinion this would make it much easier for the fc to coordinate attacks and disperse his fleet to more advantageous positions within a system.here are 2 visuals for what i have in mind.1)solar system map viewa) also, a 'broadcast route' to wing/sqd/fleet members may also prove useful, which would show the route in the solar system map for that specific wing or sqd(color coded , of course)2)squad positions while in spacea) this view, in my opinion, would be the most valuable."
"nice idea.. should be part of a refurbishing of the whole intel/map system"
"the new character creator, as briefly described in the dev blog below, seems like an amazing tool that literally allows the user to sculpt one's own appearance. i can't wait this to get live, personally because i have messed up with the camera angle so badly that my avatar looks goofy as you see. (dev blog:"
"more technicalities of the avatar sculpture system are as the following;there will be two types of plaster sculptures to prevent your precious face from being stolen and planted on... who knows. \"licensed\" sculptures can be used in cosmetic clinics(in-station facility, subsidiary of medical station) as references for facelifts / body modifications, and will be destroyed after use in order to maintain confidentiality of the client. (you will have the option to save your original face as a \"licensed\" sculpture, for an added fee.) \"decorative\" sculptures can be placed as decorations in your hangar / quarters / bar / commercial installation, etc, when incarna gets released. unlike \"licensed\" sculptures, \"decorative\" sculptures cannot be used for facelifts as they are not certified by the original creator for medical use. \"decorative\" sculptures may be created with precious materials other than medically certified high fidelity plaster, such as bronze, steel, silver, platinum, electrum, and finally, gold. therefore, \"licensed\" sculptures are analogous to bpcs to your face, while \"decorative\" sculptures are more like trade goods that gives you the bragging rights for placing them.in case the player wants to save the result and yet save the isk for making plaster casts, s/he may save the result as separate files stored in the server so that the unpublished result can be worked on later but not be exported.finally, the data required to render 3d images in the preview function will be fed from the character node so that spamming the preview button on multiple sculptures does not aggravate fleet lag during combat.possible usages:=> most obviously, convenient future facelifts / body modifications without the need to create a new character that will bear your poor, soddy old face.=> collecting plaster statues/cast busts of celebrity figures, such as chribba, entity, gripen, istvaan shogatsu, princess aricia, etc.=> creating a new class of artists that will either faithfully recreate your old avatar, or design a brand new one. artistic contests may also be held using the sculpture mechanic.=> more stuff to do in stations other than spinning internet spaceships.=> for ccp, isk sinks, especially with vanity items like \"decorative\" scupltures.cons:=> slightly conflicts with existing chronicles.(i support my suggestion, obviously.)(edit: typos.)"
"you know that those characters will be used in incarna (*), right?i'm also pretty sure the actual possibility to be able to redo your character for rlmoniez/plex will stay in place, so you can come back to the sculpting part as often as you want (read: have moniez).as for people who got problems recreating themself i got a solution which should already work:1) some gifted gal/guy does recreate the personality on his account on an empty slot2) this char get's transfered to the account of the ungifted person and isk is paid for the work (upfront check of looks easily possible)3) once on account the ungifted person can swap chars as usual4) all happy*) incarna = walking on stations in a 3d environment with your 3d character, who is able to show emotions, speech and gestures (no dancing afaik)/solution(s) seeking for problems, no support"
"i would really like to see ccp step forward and express their feelings towards botters that don't engage in rmt. it would be sad to see players to vote with their feet because they don't see why they should bother to fight space holding entities that are impossible to run out of isk."
"just to know, what is the real problem with scam&spam ?"
"if you want realism perhaps you should stop playing a spaceship game"
"eve is in many ways not a realistic situation, for game design and practical reasons. to give two examples, our \"spaceships\" act as if they are flying through a liquid, and we can't look out of the windows of space stations to see if there is a pirate horde waiting for us.even if i did agree with you that this was an issue worth addressing, i would have to be honest and say it is not high-priority."
"that is an issue with the game releasing more than one ship at the same time. in real life, they would be in a queue, just like airports.also, station camps are quite realistic. as soon as the ship opens fire, the station guns rip it apart (not always at once, tank can take a while)."
"yes i was, i kind of screwed up my remaps as i did a profession change and i have to wait until june 2011 before i can train a a better speed!! i even bought a plex when the news was announced.i don't think the remapping feautre was a very brilliant one at all to start with .."
"it would have been nice to have a way to get remaps more often than once ever 12 months ... some people mentioned that frequent remaps essentially make attributes worthless though and they sort of have a point.they would have come at a cost of 350 million isk though.. hardly something to sneeze atthe advantage a player using unlimmited remaps over a player making effective use of the exisiting remaps really wasn't much over 10% .... really not game changing .. i'm all for ccp getting more revenue.... if balanced sp was such a huge factor no one new would enter the game... a 10 to 15% advantage is hardly noticible ..the idea of having some in game items or abilties priced in the alternate currency of plex vs isk is ok with me.... nothing wrong with a different currency.......nothing wrong with a isk sink focussed on players with more than enough isk to purchase a small advantage....nothing wrong with ccp encouraging plex prices to be a bit higher to make the rmt less profitable... or to tryt to keep the numbers of alt accounts to somewhere close to a good game balance point."
"hm, you mean like in those big \"fleet battles\" that supposedly got fixed so they're \"lag-free\"(tm) now? tbh, in comparison the lag increase by automated scans in a couple dozen system should be manageable imho."
"i too support the black ops boost..range, t2 resists (should def be more hp than t1 hull), and useful bonuses.i think its time already, lets get on with it"
"i have dreams of the games i could play with the widow, but at the moment it seems next to useless. i think about finding a lone pirate or miners sitting out in space, as i sit silently in a belt just waiting. getting close while it moves around talking to its friends or firing at a few rocks, coming quickly out of cloak locking it down with a warp scramble and taking it apart with my missles while it screams for its friends. picking over its corpse and drifting off back into cloak before its backup can arive. at the moment this seems hard if not impossible to do."
"the warp effect is currently so underwhelming (actually thinking of it, most effects are now (*cough* cyno *cough*) ) - defiantly support an update to the graphical effect.possibly support a change to the warp mechanics, depending on the specifics."
"heyy phoenix! been searching through soo many vids of the new black prophecy mmo bt cant find that warp effect you're talking about! could u post a link maybe?ohh and another thing... im not sure if its possible to do or not bt i thought bout the punching warp effect and the current system and thought, itd be cool and actually quite logical if we could have both! the punching in warp effect for ships deemed combat vessels, and the ramp up ramp down for commercial/industrial ships! i havent a clue if its possible bt itd make sense if military ships have a more powerfull warp system installed than non-combat role ships :)what do u guys think?"
"couple things that'd be cool:1. when a ship charges to enter warp, from the perspective of the ship, a huge distortion forms in the backdrop, like someone uses the pinch effect in photoshop, then when warp is engaged, the ship is flung down into that pinch and straight into the warp effect. which should be way cooler then it is now. other ships can't see this, but they can see a characteristic \"warp drive glow\" on the ship's bow, like its moving through steam, when it jumps to warp, that \"steam\" is left behind, quickly fading away to nothing.2. in warp, the ship should not be \"oriented up\" in space, it should slowly roll over and over, corkscrewing through warp and finally righting itself as it comes out. and when it warps through a planet, a ship, or a station there is a huge lighting storm type effect that engulfs the ship and that it sheds off again as it leaves, this would be representative of the warp drive tunnelling straight through normal matter."
"i also like the last posters suggestions"
"having thought about this for awhile, i say plex should be used for account services only. no in-game content in any way."
"hey ccp, don't be so cheap. you should hire a permanent balance team that can put up balance patches faster."
"bump."
"i guess you've never played a game that had nudity and was filled with trolls then.as for the rest of what you said, honestly i would support the implementation of \"clothes optional\" areas in incarna for those who want to enjoy if it weren't one of the absolute lowest things on my priority list."
"you do make a good point.if the dram went up in costs significantly, it's popularity would suffer. the cost-performance ratio comes into discussion on many fits and usage discussions -- clearly officer equipment is superior but you don't find much respect for sub-capital ships that show these in use for pvp... a price increase, due to rarity and manufacturing costs, might address the dram better than a nerf. \"too expensive...\" is a common no-go statement for ships in pvp."
"supported."
"i do not support this issue.it does not \"make sense\" that drones should be able repair their mothership; drones require assistance to their motherships targeting systems to be able to lock onto a target. whoops i am wrong here.i believe this change would require a significant amount of resources to implement, even if its only one dev and a day at work i do not think that this change is worth that amount of effort and these resources should be spent elsewhere.this feature would change the balance of many if not most ships in eve. implementing this feature would require a significant amount of time and effort to rebalance things."
"looking at the theoretical tanking figures ships would gain out of the ability to do this i really can't see any balance problems what so ever. the simple fact that you are choosing between dps/ewar/tank in your drone bay is a great idea. however there is a problem but this problem could also be looked at as a solution too.and its called the oneiros/scimitar. the ability to self rep with drones means that the oneiros/scimitar gets a fairly large buff to survivability (drone bonus + large drone bay). perhaps this is a good thing. the inability of these two logistics ships to \"chain\" with a cap transfer and the completely underwhelming tracking link bonus means these ships become great in their intended role of small gang support. when you are the lone logi pilot you feel a little more fluffy flying it knowing you have some tanking ability too.the implementation i imagine would be fairly simple to put into sisi for testing. a simple right click \"support me\" command for your drones would work wonders. then let the feedback from testing decide."
"you know, if we had a little more teamwork, we could have had a 5 or 6x quote going on."
"supported"
"i kinda like the idea of nerfing ecm by being able to send drones after things you don't have a lock on. but anyways... this is a good idea."
"i too am suprised to learn that i can't use my repair drones to repair my self, i am glad that i haven't invested a lot of time developing the required skills yet or the isk on drones that would be uless to me at this time."
"i'm a bit disturbed about those accusations presented in eve24 news about how widespread is the use of bots in eve. ofc i dont swallow all that as pure truth and i do not personally believe that ccp does not care. nevertheless the accusations are quite serious so some response to them would be nice. even if it's just friendly pat on the shoulder and reassurance that they do care about bots in eve.ofcource ccp cant tell what exactly are they doing, but there are some numbers that can be presented. number of accounts banned, amount of isk that is removed, amount of moms and titans banned with accounts and so on. how many people have their main job to root out macros from eve, etc. something on the lines of unholy rage report."
"i approve of this message.."
"i finished reading the article 5mn ago and i'm really disappointed.that's really ridiculous.the more i was reading the more i wanted to cancel my account.how come ccp allow people to earn that much so easily ?!it's time for ccp to say something... and do something.if what is said is true things can't continue like that."
"strongly, definitely, urgently supported."
"i'd certainly like to hear ccp's side of the story.do ccp have any evidence to back up the claims made in that article?"
"no need for knee jerk reaction before the hammer hits your knee i would say. what is presented in that series of articles is disgusting, for the 'regular' player of eve, however this is only one side of the story. for all we know some guy with something against ccp might me making it all up to get exactly that kind of reaction. it has been a while though since the last unholy rage and while smacking botters is continuous process no doubt it would be awesome to get another devblog about how it's going for sure. even if the one related to the account security can be considered roughly fitting under 'fight against rmt' banner."
"botting isnt a new thing, why exactly did a kugu article need to get you people to realise how badly people bot.supported!removed accusations of botters, those are better suited to a petition. zymurgist"
"definitely need a devblog on the subject"
"yes, a mention from the devs is a must."
"absolutely"
"yep agree entirely"
"support!"
"yeah we need ccp version... oh wait it's what i asked...and my reaction ended by that :"
"as do i."
"english only please. - adida"
"showing my support.rabble rabble rabble."
"i'm kinda new and hearing about this macroing stuff doesn't exactly encourage me to play this game...it would be nice to see some confirmation that ccp is doing something about it."
"i<U+FFFD>m in.tell us the truth, even if it<U+FFFD>s as bad as some of us expect it to be.soon(tm)"
"so please clarify ccp: is this game a sandbox or a catbox? i ask because once again it's starting to stink like the latter through your inaction."
"i agree. the emo rage on bots is getting huge, and we need some sort of ccp feedback. better yet, we need to kill all bots. p.s. a few people who said they agreed with this proposal forgot to click \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\"."
"/signed"
"the article and alleged implications should be addressed by ccp, refuting them where untrue, etc. i'd like more than 'we are aware of the seriousness of botting' however, assurances that things are in the works will do for now but in time if they prove to be false platitudes ccp is left as the liar.it has been some time since the actions of unholy rage and something along those lines would be useful to show ccp's seriousness."
"if nothing else, i think ccp needs to address the concerns the legitimate player base have in regards to the new perception of this problem. and this needs to go beyond vague reassurances of \"we know, we're working on it.\"obviously, i do not expect ccp to come forward and say \"we use xyz tactics to track bots and ban them\". that would be foolish in the extreme, but the perception that nothing is being done can only hurt the game in the long run by discouraging new subscribers from joining, and encouraging old ones to quit.supported. it's time ccp stepped up to the plate and put foot to ass on the macroers again."
"reading that article give me the urge to quit too, what's the point when botters can do all you work so hard to do in a few days.would love to see what ccp has to say about it.supported."
"supported!"
"seven years in eve best game ever!but bots will make my time end..supported"
"yeah, i feel no motivation to play in a game where my actions are dwarfed by those of a person running a bajillion bots."
"dont forget to check the \"support this topic\" box. (you can do this with an edit if you forgot)"
"beep boop i am a bot"
"my robot overlords don't want me to support this topic"
"i concur."
"things are getting a little bloody dicey. i refuse to believe that identifying and hunting mass bot farms is that difficult."
"agreed! ccp need to be open and honest about the situation, and show a real, measurable and most of all obvious action against these players.ccp need to talk about the issue in much more depth than anything we've had in the past, most of us are very disillusioned by your claims of banning x thousand accounts without any supporting arguments, description, reasoning or general discussion.the entire issue isn't helped by the over-zealous moderation of the forum, making it very difficult to have a measure discussion of the issue in any meaningful way.not to mention the obvious requirement of a full internal audit, the claims that have been made by evenews24 are very serious and really knock peoples faith in ccp as a company."
"every post this threads get without a comment from the csm is a sign of gross incompetence and/or slack on their part."
"pingu: \"bots must die\""
"i totally agree that botting is the scourge of this game and i am deeply disturbed at how bad ccp has let this slip without taking any further action on this matter. if the accusations in eve24 are anywhere near accurate eve is going to go way down hill for the legitimate people that play this game.i can only imagine how many people that read those articles that are right now wondering what's the point in staying subscribed to a game that has this type of mentality towards rmt.also if there's no action took soon on this how many others are going to jump on the bandwagon after reading that???"
"carniflex for president. also, would like info from ccp on this topic."
"ccp should understand that even if they benefit from this for the moment they will lose on the long run, we all will..."
"a report would be good. hardening up the client and communication interfaces would be better."
"what this guy said."
"well put..... i'd also hope that the blog would take a more than \"always vigalent\" line but would mention that they'd attained copies of theh progams used and had employees using them with other employees trying to stop them..... if they can't stop an employee aremed with the program, they'll need to keep changing game mechanics or the client or whatever until they do .a comitment to thinking of and making changes that can dratically reduce the problem is needed.many of those changes couldd effect major parts of game pleay so there would need to be a decent period of vetting of them by players and the csm (and btw, i don't want to get rid of local and, from what i've read, it would not do the trick ... i'm for increasing the signal to noise ratio in ways humans would be far less likely to dock for cover than computers...)"
"yes"
"well, hopfully they do address this issue very soon.if they don't, guess that would imply that they approve of botting and we should all start botting.see if we can get avg cost of megacyte to be less than 100 isk per. and price of plexes to 1b a pop."
"bump"
"i'm pretty pleased with the sentinel as-is, but i would love a real reason to use a kitsune instead of a blackbird when flying ecm."
"like the idea! like others, i think it would be nice to have the option to completly remove the station wreck by exploding it or turning it into scrap metal (or more)if wanted.don't like the idea of a special ship to do this..and think there must be a way for the new owners of sov to loot everything that hasn't been destroyed in the station .i admit that the idea of letting it accecible only to the first owners can lead to some nice fights, but after some times, if the first owners haven't been able to take their assets back, new owners should be able to do whatever they want from that wreck.so, for the clones,yes, medical clone should be send to the high sec corp hq, and jump clone could be active until the new sov owners have the possibility to fully destroy the station. this could be done after some time that has to be determine: maybe not just a timer, maybe with some system that force the old owners to regulary (and lightly) fueling the station wreck for maintaining minimal security fonction for their assets)i'm not a big eve player,so, i can think it wrong, but i think it could be a nice way to do it! oh, and, no wreck or large collidable object, i'm for some new name in overview for station's wreck.(sorry for my poor english )"
"very good idea, can't image why it wouldn't be simple to implement either."
"great idea...simple and useful"
"i support this. you can probably file a petition for this already.[edit]when was this change implemented?"
"seems remarkably unfair not to compensate accordingly."
"supported, but realistically, it probably won't get fixed."
"would be unfair not to fix this, ccp i know you can check skill completion dates. refund skill points based on the rank when it was trained and not the current rank!"
"i'd like to see some evidence apart from your unsupported and rather vague recollection that the advanced learnings were ever anything other than rank 3from your own account, you cant even remember this clearly enough to remember what rank you think they were. are you sure you're not confusing this with some proposed-but-never-made-it-to-tq tier 3 learning skills?in short: proof or stfu"
"everyone is getting the same mate.5m effective skill points ( attribute boost + reallocatable sp ).all that changed in learning skill was the pre-req for training the advanced skills iirc.used to be higher than it is at present.i'm pretty sure they never changed the multiplier.cause if they had, players would have raged about there sp loss back then."
"the only change done to the learning skills in the past is that the requirement to train the advanced ones was reduced from basic learning 5 to 4. nothing else."
"/this"
"if this was done. this game would be like \"epic movie\" quality. add better explosions and you got the sickest game ever. eve's mechanics are already awesome, it being a sandbox in space. all it needs are better graphics and realism. plus the teaser trailers i see for this game are unbelievably deceptive. they make the battles in this game look so awesome, and yet actually in the game it just looks like a cluster f*ck of ships sitting floating around ina giant bubble. a friend of mine watched me play during a 200+ fight. and he had absolutely no idea what was going on. this needs to change. also the damn needs to stop. we need like optional cockpit views for the frigate sized ships and better controls than just the current \"click here -> go here\". cause currently this game is a clickfest. and i can play this entire game with 1 hand. and theres no 1/2 naked girls in this game to give me a reason to entertain the other hand...(not that im asking for any, im just rambling)"
"supported~"
"below are the current session topics for the csm december summit.as meeting time is limited, and ccp has reserved some sessions to discuss topics of concern to them, there will no doubt be some issues of interest to each of you that are not on the agenda at this particular summit.the csm would like to encourage everyone to provide us with feedback about the topics, questions they would like answered, insights they would like us to consider, and so on.a different perspective - core : how the core group works and interacts with the various projects.incarna game play and vision : what is the vision for incarna (more concrete than \"walking in stations\" and \"ultimate sci-fi simulator\") and what is planned to have as gameplay in the incarna spring/summer 2011 release. (double session)incarna npe and cq : new player experience in incarna and the captain's quarters.virtual goods : current status, future and messaging.qa at ccp : how eve is quality tested; discussion of test environments, partners, and processes; qa's involvement in patches; how csm and qa might work together, particularly to raise qa's profile and credibility with players; and whatever else comes up. (double session)security measures : new account security measures.economics/eve economy : the state of the economy and where it is heading. how is the economy broken and what will be done to fix it. likely to include a rmt discussion. (double session)user interface : the current state (challenges) and future plans for the eve ui, briefing on ui limitations (as a guide to help csm craft more realistic proposals in the future), discussion of current high-priority csm ui proposals, with an eye to reprioritization, feasibility, and iterating to improve feasibility.game balance requests by playerscsm processes, tools, and evolution : review of what is working well and what could work better; csm access to info as discussed with nathan in october; prospects for proposal-related tool support from ccp; need (or not) for more structure/accountability as csm role evolves from experiment to integration; ways to support continuity across terms.game design talk to the csm : game design wants to do an unorthodox session with the csm (double session)post dominion 0.0 : multiple subjects lumped into one; specifics are incoming. (triple session)assembly idea (csm tools) : ccp assembly like tool for csm - player to raise topics, discuss ideas etc.csm issues / release planning : standard discussion about the items on our dev priorities list that will be submitted soonish after the summit in time for the next release planning meetings.csm activities at fanfest 2011 : brainstorming ideas about enhancing visibility for the csm and how we might engage players in fun ways."
"i'd like to see you challenge ccp on botting and rmt. we all know they exist, but recent posts on the-forum-that-shall-not-be-named have raised awareness on the magnitude of the problem. that is to say, game-breaking. that is, if you believe the posts, which if you take as even 10% accurate are still quite disturbing.horus's post halfway down this page:"
"botting like in the above post is a major concern of mine.also:war on lag: specifically can ccp (through process of elimination on sisi, etc) try and pin down more actual choke points like missiles and how they work so that we can look at fundamentally changing or addressing those tough issues. anything else is a bandaid (quick fix) and we all know how eve players feel about that. leading into my last topic - please give them high praise for their work on balance issues and outstanding problems in incursion. i (like many others) are extremely happy with ccp in this regard. a lot of credit goes to this round of csm candidates as well but please provide them that feedback so that we can keep it moving forward. any other balancing issues; whether creative ideas to move away from isk faucets, fix more longstanding problems (fof missiles, corp management interface, the eve gui, etc, etc) are greatly appreciated!!thanks csm!"
"the only thing i particularly care about is whether i can make more isk working on whatever you've got set up for station walking than i can in the belts with my lasers.how will we make isk there? the most concrete response i've gotten so far is that we can set up bars and such. if this is so, how will it be different from cafeworld?"
"the resent articles regarding macros and botting do concern me. banning accounts is one way to tackle the problem, but is reactive, rather then proactive. could ccp do more to protect their client from abuse?the war on lag is never ending. fleets increase in size according to a node's capacity to handle them. should ccp be maintaining nodes beyond their ability to maintain a playable environment?just because a node doesn't crash, does not mean a node can maintain a good player experience. can anything be introduced in to the game mechanics that can mitigate and balance the effect of lag on the parties concerned?"
"this!!!!!all other topics became irrelevant after i've read that article."
"a little update: ccp has acknowledged player concerns about rmt; it appears that rmt will indeed be discussed during the economics session."
"has ccp acknowledged the problem of bots making isk for proposes other than rmt, like propping up a 0.0 alliance, or just for personal use?that too need to be discusssed, and should be part of the \"how is the eve economy broken\" discussion."
"in addition to the rmt discussions, i would like to see this extended to the use of 3rd party programs in general (bots/hack/whatever you want to call them) to automate or ease gameplay. it would be nice to at least some information flowing back from ccp on this issue; they ask a lot from the players to report and find these people in game - time for the players to see an outcome of this!"
"segueing from 3rd party apps:capsuleer has shut down.eve-metrics is shutting down. (frankly, considering the huge amount of resources necessary for a site like this, i'm surprised that eve-central and all the rest haven't as well)what is ccp's strategy to support community-created third party tools?"
"please confront ccp on bottersmacro miners/ratters/ecthackers/stolen accounts"
"in a straw poll of 105 eve pilots taken in 2009, 16% said that active tanking bonuses where \"...fine as they are\".with 56% believing that they should be tweaked and another 27% believing that they should be removed or replaced in some-manner. i'd imagine that would drop further if the question was refined to just \"are racial active tanking bonuses good?\".yes, there are over arching problems with active tanking in general most evidently exposed in the balance between dreads and carriers/super-caps as well as within the command-ship sector...yes, racial diversity in ship bonuses, designed niches and stats is normally good, but not for the sake of real game diversity and behaviour.and yes, i know solo mission runners also really love active tanking bonuses on there t1 battleship of choice however... the fundamental problem with racial active tanking bonuses and the ships they are applied to are is that it limit's a ships flexibility - although this is ok with tech 2 ships which are usually more specialised than there t1 counter parts, applying the same bonus to ships many players would be expected to refit, swap out and use in more than one instance where ships with greatly proved performance in more niches, and larger niches exist has been a long standing problem.in essence the benefits of the active tanking bonus over resistances come no where near to compensating for a niche that is now so small and getting smaller every year (limited to small gangs of up to 10, or solo pve) - a the overall balance of use now heavy reflects in player behaviours, skill points and ship diversity to the detriment of the game ecosystem. in addition, active tanking suffers some fundamental issues i don't believe can be solved without drastic changes to the sandbox nature of the game or addition of new niches for there use: 1# as soon as the incoming dps received becomes greater than double the strength of your tank, you would have lasted longer in an ehp setup.2# you've got a choice between high fitting requirements and cap dependency for a relatively situational, and temporary form of defence in pvp.... or ehp passive/buffer tanking with less fitting and cap requirements enabling cap-warfare and/or rr. aka - a no brainier. 3# you have to fit and activate a specific module to receive a bonus - if you don't, your using the wrong ship. (a situation that is ten times more frequent with active tanking bonused ships than resistance bonused ships)4# pimped active tanks are kinda cool and boosters can give some pilots the edge in some situations, but as any gang with any common sense would be fitted with neuts, you'd more likely be leaving behind your very own expensive wreck along with a beautiful corpse. failing neuts, there is always alpha to deal with.5# even the focus of pve is changing, with ever more isk coming out of co-operative mission running in sanctums, w-space and the general rise of neuting npc's - somethings got to give.so... what should we do about it?i've placed multiple suggestions about this issue and so have many others - not that i'd ever believe we'd ever agree on one, but for a summary...possible active tanking tweaks<U+25CF> dual bonuses to active tanking and remote repair modules<U+25CF> dual active tanking and overloaded shield booster/armour repair bonuses<U+25CF> doubling or greatly increasing the strength of the bonusreplacing with new tanking bonuses<U+25CF> replacing shield booster bonus with shield recharge bonus, armour repairing bonus with armour hp bonus<U+25CF> replacing active tanking bonuses with hp bonuses<U+25CF> replacing active tanking bonuses with resistancesreplacing racial active tanking bonuses with something else<U+25CF> done on a ship by ship basis<U+25CF> done with some racial trait or flavouranyway, i hope you support that something has to be done, because i believe it is very much one of the most important issues regarding ship balance!"
"btw, i'm not asking you to support any specific fix - it's likely that the final fix for this whatever it might be may only appeal to 2/3's or maybe just 1/3 of the vocal player base, but having something we can't all agree to a fix on isn't a reason to let this issue go to the way side."
"most of the active tanked ships are just fine. the hyperion, myrmidon and cyclone are a bit dodgy with it (can only tank 1 ship of own class) but the others are pretty good. you've probably never come across a well fitted and skilled maelstrom, vargur, golem or cs if you're moaning about active tank bonuses.i'm not opposed to boosting them a little, particularly the armor tanked ones. but to say that all the active tanked ships are fail in pvp is absurd. they are vulnerable to getting the crap blobbed out of them but that's true of everything. they specialize in fights that are smaller than 10v10. in that realm, they can be exceedingly powerful."
"yeeah not liking the rr sugestion, this game has to much of that. nor the recharge bonus, that would suck in pvp compaired to the mael and sleip that the active bonus.besides that well written and this is a serious problem. perhaps you should consider making the modules themselfs more useful as a solution. that way active might be common for all ships not running rr.etheir way i support a change."
"couldn't you reduce the fitting requirements for active tank module, hence leading to a meaningful decision when deciding between active tank or pure ehp. as you say, active tank already leads to cap dependency."
"in gangs of 10 vs 10, specialised remote repping logistics are preferred. either way, the choice of either solo active tanking with just 5%-10% less efficiency or greater general performance everywhere else that resistances give is the problem here."
"i don't think you realize just how powerful a good active tank is. my completely ordinary t2 fitted maelstrom can sustain a 3k dps active tank with 80k ehp and 800+ turret dps with a point. that's without any logistics. throw a logi in and it's +1k dps tank per logi. alternatively i could run around in an abaddon with 250k ehp, 0 active tank and 800 turret dps. obviously 1k dps active tank is added per logi. which ship is better is situational.it's also worth noting that the active shield tanking ships can also be buffer fit effectively. the maelstrom for example can have 150k ehp with only 3 module and 3 rig changes from the active tank setup. you simply drop the xl shield booster, boost amp and cap injector for lse's. the rigs are changed to 3x extender rigs. the end, you now have a 150k ehp buffer fitted maelstrom which is about what an unslaved abaddon has.so i stand by my point that the active tanked ships as a whole do not need a boost, it's really just the hyperion, cyclone and myrmidon that could use a buff to it. the cyclone simply needs an extra midslot but a lack of slots is hardly unique to the cyclone, all the tier 1 bc's have this problem. the hype and myrm suffer from too many midslots at the expense of low slots. they don't have enough lows to armor tank effectively at all, whether it be active or passive unless you forgo all damage mods. so the problem is not the tanking bonuses, it's slot layouts."
"or you could fly an active tanked rokh with a better balance in tanking effectiveness with the same cystral sets and boosters. if it weren't for autocannons, the maelstrom would be defunct.it's the same issue with the command ships and to an extent the t3's. you say it's not active tanked ships on the whole, yet you pretty much name 4 out of 5 of the t1 ships in question as being in need of a buff. *shrugs*"
"i'm on board for sure. going to be tough to buff active setups on normal ships w/o making faction, boosted, implant, and gangmod setups broken. a combined reduction to cap use along with the rep amount could be intresting, dno how it would play out."
"this.before someone complains about how op mauraders in an rr chain would be, please remember their pitiful sensor strength. a falcon/rook/scorp or two and they'd all wake up crying in stations."
"the point is the bonuses are fine, it's the slot layouts on some that are ****ed. in any case i did run the numbers in eft to see how a 25% resistance bonus instead of the 37.5% shield/armor boost bonus would play out. on the maelstrom vs rokh with identical fittings, crystals, standard blue pill and a tengu ganglink, the maelstrom came out to 3301 (booster overloaded, lasts longer than cap boosters) while the rokh came out at 3227 under same conditions. i was surprised at how well the rokh turned out.i am willing to support changing all active tanking bonuses to resistance bonuses based on this. but it won't fix the hype, myrm or cyclone. their problem is poor slot layout, not bad bonuses."
"keep your meat socks off my moa/eagle/gila/onyx you ****s! that is, without a doubt, my favorite ship model in game. change whatever else you want, but leave the moa model alone!"
"a version of this idea seems interesting, being able to on the fly change your resist even just a little bit to eek out that much more survivability to lend itself to that gripping onto your seat feeling you get during some pvp encounters."
"supporting the battleship upgrades, but not the jump drive idea."
"your ideas are bad and you should feel bad.not supported."
"i disagree, it would make bses far more able to cope with a dynamic battlefield. blob warfare won't really benefit, but much of the rest of bs pvp would.the gallente are already shafted, but that has nothing to do with drones or drone proliferation. as for its impact in pvp... massive unless, again, you are a blobber.yes it would, and that is rather the point. but, even in the most extreme example of this change, armageddon getting +3 midslots, the overall effectiveness of the gank and tank of the geddon remains unchanged. all it gains is more options.oh i dunno, jump drives are the only reason to get a bo.... well and the covert jump portal.i believe you are referring to hotdropping, which is actually impossible with the way i want jump drives to work."
"you have yet to form a cohesive argument as to why, drake/hac alt detected."
"scan res: no. as a bigger ship, the bs needs to have a lower scan res. unless you buff capital scan res at the same time, its improper balancing. double drone size: no. bs that are designed to be drone-friendly (aka: dominix) already have a decent enough drone bay to be effective in their role. anything more unbalances all bs across the board.additional slots: no. tanking roles on bs are stable as-is, as well as slot layouts. some aspects of these need to be balanced (aka: active vs. passive), but adding more slots does nothing to balance this. a bs should have more overall slots and choices for those slots, but not so much as to make them way over-balanced compared to other ships. an increase of 3 slots across the board is too much.role bonus: no. aspects like this need to be handled by per-race buffs/nerfs, not individualized bonuses. role bonuses are meant for t2/capital only and should remain as such (with the exception of bc...not that you typically see people flying drakes with gang mods...)battleship jump drive: no with a capital n.o.bs don't need to be drastically altered. some balancing needs to be done to the game, yes, but the ideas in this proposal are just over the top.if you need examples of bs being used properly, looks at pl's hellcat fleets or take some time to cruise around in lowsec. bs aren't out of the game at all, it just takes pilots adapting and changing their fits/tactics to counter new aspects of the game."
"debatable since the entire reason ships have different scan res was obsolete for the last six years. even if every ship ingame was changed to have 500 scan res, they would still lock smaller ships slower than large ships.i think you are mistaking the drone bay for the drone bandwidth.most of them would be getting two slots on their nontanking power tier and only one on their tanking tier. raven would be 8/7/7 for example. even with the option to tank more, they would still have to sacrifice something they would normally have.role bonuses are meant to specialize an otherwise unspecialized ship, has nothing to do with it being t2 or a capital.so you want to remove the one built into the black ops battleships?i still fly bs in low sec."
"1.0"
"i'd be for an extra slot for all bs. 1, not 3lets be realistic, there is no chance in hell that ccp would add 3 slots just like that. absolutely unrealistic.tho i think it'd be more useful to simply increase damage of large weapons, cause their real damage output is too close to that of bc and hacs and t3 and t2 bc and even some cruisers.however, the real issue is still survivability - bs just really bad at surviving these days, and they don't have any important advantages, other than fleet battle sniping, to make up for it"
"...8/7/7 slot layout... on a raven. that is without a doubt one of the stupidest things i've ever read. if you're really that bad at flying battleships that you think buffing the tier 3's to near eidolon levels is a good idea you really need to stop flying them."
"when ccp created bcs, they basically took cruisers and added a bunch of slots. the problem is this encroached on the realm of the bs in every category except raw power and even that gap was closed significantly. but unless there is a similar concept done for bses, which is not likely, bses will have to become their own bcs.so perhaps the slot thing could be simpler: all bses will have at least 3 more slots then any bc.harbinger has 18 slots... all bses have 18 or 19. see the problem? so this adding 3 slots across the board thing is not so far fetched, ccp did more than that to the cruiser class just by making bcs.it is perfectly validated, but given that ccp avoids buffing whenever possible... it isn't likely. or they will insist on sticking to the current way to avoid making bses 'too versatile' or some silly thing like that."
"you provided no reason for your comment, only attacked my character and apparently my ability to fly a bs. i'm surprised you even know what the eidolon is, considering how lacking substance the rest of your post was.but, let me let you in on the secret about the eidolon. it isn't the ship's slot layout that makes it so uber. it's the jovian modules it fits."
"which part of that is your problem with it? looks perfectly valid to me. though that wasn't the fit i normally use.you are off topic regardless and again, not supporting your argument."
"1. you've fit energy weapon rigs(bad enough).... but no heat sinks.2. sensor booster and eccm in the mids.... rather than a cap booster3. a neut in the last high... which would be good if you had a damn cap booster4. give me an eidolon hull with t2 modules and i'll show you an unbreakable tank."
"i normally have heat sinks. i rarely ever need a cap booster, but i almost always need the sb and eccm. if anything, i don't need the warp disruptor ii. and the neut is for frig nuking, works fine if you dont leave autorepeat on.as for the eidolon with t2, how about you demonstrate that ridiculous 8/7/7 raven setup instead?"
"limitations are placed on the slot layouts of ships because it restricts the damage dealing/ tanking/ and tackle capabilities of it. if every ship were to have such a slot layout it would make flying every other ship near pointless and eve would become less diverse. if an abaddon had 7 midslots and 7 lows and 8 highs, you could shield tank it and fit it for max gank with a very nice shield tank. battleships hold the crown for the biggest sub capital buffers without going into commandships and strategic cruisers. they're built to hit quite hard while being rather hard to take down at the same time. they also are able to equip heavy neuts which can almost alpha a battlecruisers capacitor. so essentially although they are big and bulky, they play a significant role in fleet and solo pvp."
"the abaddon would have 8/6/8 slot arrangement."
"heavy neuts have a 24 second cycle time, it's easy to keep modules active against that.i'm confident i could take out that geddon in a rifter, or a maller, or a harb."
"the rifter would be annoying, but you wouldn't kill me with it. and the harb or maller, well neither of those would last long enough to eat through the ehp.so i imagine you would have to do what everyone else does and bring friends."
"dude thats overpowered as hell, the abaddon's tank is already brutal, you not only made it even more brutal, but the one downside to the abaddon is the lack of mids. 6 mids makes it so you could fit everything you possibly needed, your essentially want battleships to be perfect in every single way dude. im sorry but i gaurentee my abaddon will drop every single battlecruiser easily you can throw at me lol."
"how about a demonstration of your 8/6/8 abaddon setup? i mean, nothing argues louder than examples."
"8 guns,web,disrupter,cap booster,tracking computer,sensor booster,speed mod,. typical plate and heat sink layout in the lows."
"no rigs?"
"whatever rigs you think are good on a ship that fires its cap out the window"
"it's moot, because you wouldn't have the cpu to make it work."
"so having extra slots in pointless then?...."
"why don't you ask to give battleships more ehp/dps? certainly ccp will never implement crazy ideas like t1 ship jumping around!!"
"they get like 400k plus ehp and 1500+ dps, anythin more then thats gonna be up to capital ship level"
"please post fits with 400kk ehp and 1500+ dps"
"you could make a fit for the 8/6/8 baddon requires faction eanm's thoughlow slots1600mm rolled tungsten plate1600mm rolled tungsten plate1600mm rolled tungsten platedamage control iidb energized adaptive nano membranedb energized adaptive nano membraneadaptive nano plating iiheat sink iimid slotsquad-lif feuled booster rockets ifaint warp disruptorfleeting propulsion inhibitorf-90 positional sensor subroutines, scan resconjunctive eccm radarmedium cap booster ii, cap booster 800high slotsmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy mfrig slotslarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump idroneshammerhead iiwith your changes that all fits, giving you these statsehp: 231,556 (with slaves this goes to 349k)dps: 840cap stable with mwd offsensor strength: 41.7scan res: 340mm(with your double the scan res change)"
"just think of the standard buffer vindicator and add slavesedit. i think he is refering to the topic in ships and modules where they said about doubling dps and ehp of all bsalthough using an insanely expensive fit it is almost possible to get those numbers out of the vindicator, best i got without using officer mods was 333k ehp and 1448dps"
"for full eft warrior stuff: add dmg implants."
"battleships are fine. sure there might be some balance issues, but they are far smaller than other balance issues, like scs.bs are still used alot and you only make them ridiculously overpowered with these ideas."
"the only reason i, and most of the pvp'ers i know, don't fly bs more, is their terrible agility. certainly for low sec roaming, a bc or hac is a much better choice, but i actually am fine with this, bs still have a role, and imo certainly don't need these types of 'balancing'."
"adding scan res yes it would make battleships better and would make me want to fly one more often just because it would get easier to get on kill mails =pincreasing the drone bay well maybe a little bit lets say 50m<U+FFFD> for all bs hulls should be ok and not make them too strong against frigate because the thing is right now that the counter to battleships are indeed frigates ps:after doing some test i think that a increase in drone bay size is probably one of the two best things you can do to buff bs as drones are the main damage source that battleships have against frigates cruisers and especially hacs more slots for tech 1 battleships is a no way ever it would gimp all the faction bs which have more slotsi don't know about role bonuses they are i think likely to unbalance things for example what would you give the other tier 2 bs if you give the mega a mwd bonus?jump drives on battleships would take them totally out of normal combat which happens when two moving or roaming fleets meet each other they then would just jump to the pos they want to take down or the gate they want to camp and would avoid all combat that could happen on the way to the target.it would also make it impossible to intercept battleship fleets on the way to the targetwhat i think needs to be done to make battleships more use is to increase speed and agility and at the same reduce it on battle cruisers also battleships be buffed at fighting battle cruisers maybe through increase of signature radius on battle cruisers so the best counter to a bc fleet becomes a bs fleet though tbh i don't see the issue here bs do actually very good at applying dps on bc ps: yes the best thing you can do to bs is buff their agility to make them more mobile pps:but what i did notice is that bs have not much more dps compared to bs i mean a t2 fitted armageddon with racial drones and imperial multi does only 435 dps more compared to a harbinger that truly is not much for that you have such a slow ship etcedit: i also think that bc need to get quite a lot more expensive for what they can do so its more of a decision whether to buy a bc or just put another 30~50 mil ontop of it and get a bs"
"so essentially you've validated my argument for me. having to use faction mods for the 'overpowered setup' negates using that as a counterpoint to adding more slots. balance is never done with faction mods on t1 ships. now if you could find an overpowered setup without using faction, deadspace, or officer... that might hurt my proposal."
"again, demonstrate this overpoweredness. all i see is an increase in options along with future whines about not having enough fittings to fit these theoretical op setups."
"ok change one of the db eanm's to a tech 2 one and the other to an adaptive nano plating problem solved all fits fine, i think with that change you could probably change the cap booster to a heavy as well"
"...umm...no they wouldn't. do you understand scan res at all?your original proposal says drone bay size. i am saying drone bays larger than what they currently are are unbalanced due to ship roles. i'm not mistaking anything.if you seriously think a 8/7/7 raven is not op, you need to get your head examined.no...role bonuses are applied to specialized ships. lets take the celestis versus the arazu. role bonus on the arazu, none on the celestis. its because the arazu has a definitive role as a recon ship. look also at supercaps and their immunity to ewar. thats class-specific (erhmm role bonus erhmm)no, since thats a t2 ship and you're specifically talking about re-balancing all bs.i hate to pull kb stats, but you're not that great of a bs pilot, even in lowsec...post with a main with better stats in that regard and i'll gladly rescind that comment. otherwise, from looking at fits and kb stats, you're bs skillz are sub-par to be openly complaining about them."
"yes, i do. do you?in what way are they unbalancing? too many replacement drones? too much variety in the types of drones you can carry?i want examples. simply saying it does nothing. simply adding three slots to all bses does not make them overpowered, for that to happen there would have to be a matching increase in fitting stats.the ship does not make the role for the ship, the role bonus does.i think all ships should have jds personally, but i'll settle for just bses.this is the only main i have (had) that matters, as for kb stats... what can i say, i never bothered using them till very recently.i still don't see what any of that has to do with the proposal. and if kbs showed every fight i was in, my record would be better, but they only count kills. i can't tell you how many times i won a fight, but didn't get a kill out of it."
"needed, i love all of the ideas."
"3 new slots for bs is laughable. anyone who understands anything about games should know ccp would never do it. so there's no point derailing the threat by arguing that particular issue.something simple like increased scan res is good - it just that scan res cannot effect how people use battleships in game. not unless you make it better than bc."
"one thing i would support is more drone bay for the rokh, its a joke cmon its only 50 m3. every bs other than the rokh has more than that 75m3+! you can't even put a flight of small and medium drones on it."
"was never sure that any ship class was suppose to be more important than the rest. personally i would hope ship size classes went through phases that changed every so years of being king of the hill. so maybe in a few years a bs boost might be relevant."
"whine whine whine, moan moan moan.why should a bs pilot fit an as or medium gun (which won't help against all targets just small ones) next your gonna say all ships should be omni tanked for shield and armor and have a spread of gun sizes and missle launchers you know for realisms sake.a neut will help you against pretty much any target in the game whether your the hunter or the prey.if you take this away you make it so that caps cant get killed by bs as effectively, and so that small ships are immune to caps and bs.which is fantastic as i could endlessly bubble enemy cap fleets in my sabre as their only counter is neuts, unless they try and sick drones on me which i kite away and kill. neuts how ever cap me out but i get 1 pulse of the mwd after that, and thats enough to get outa neut range. frigates are fast tackle, and short range protection (vs. bombers, interdictors, drones, fighters, fighter bombers, and the like) they arent meant to be primary tackle or the base dps ship, or the jack of all trades, or superman. they have the dps to do the jobs listed above not counter bs fleets. and if you think you should beable to bring a frigate fleet to a bs/bc fight you should quit eve now. (bomber fleets aside)"
"if you happy being a cookie cutter fit flying null sec nubkin then i'm happy for you.your dependancy on neuts for success is just more evidence that they are overpowered.when it comes to fitting spare high slots what do you put in there ?same thing as everyone else including me i'd wagerthe only mod that makes any sense.one that completelly fecks over anything class sizes smaller than yourslef ?one that stops other ships from defending themselves with reps?one that stops other ships from firing back unless there mini/cal ?"
"obviously you've never heard of a cap booster, as its what keeps my ships alive against neuts. as per my highslot usage, i usually either fit a neut, a smart bomb, or a rr on my bs's utility highs, for examplemy phoons highs are 2 neuts and an armor rr. also you forget about nos as i fit my cruor with 1 nos 1 neut and laugh when i start capping out people but cant be kept capped out cause people suck at cycling their neuts.i mean the only benefit i see with this proposed change is that solo roaming frigates and destroyers would be neigh invincible if they were good pilots, like dramiels are now and well we dont need more of those.if your gonna fight bs's know which ones have a utility high and strategize accordingly if you find a poc a hype a rokh or a maelstrom, they prolly wont be fitting a neut.basically why do you think active shield tanking ****s are usually cap injected if not dual cap injected. or why passive vindicators are cap injected, or why cap boosters exist in the game. they are the logical counter to neuts.if you dont wanna fit a nox or a cap booster you run the risk of being neuted out. its a fair gamble cause if you dont run a neut you risk being out tanked buffer vs active, and or caught by lil sh*ts and not able to get away"
"nos was nerfed because it was pretty broken, neuts were fine so they weren't touchedneuts are still fine and a small nos gives +2.7 to +3.2 cap/s with a cycle time of 3s according to eft, where an abii uses -0.7 cap/s, and a scram ii uses -0.8 cap/sheavy neut pretty much kills a frigs cap, but has a cycle time of 24s. meh."
"csm do your job!!"
"no, i definitely got right and i stand by my point that it is not the ships its the pilots. new players lack a knowledge of the game that allows for good fitting skill. the thrasher and rifter are easy to fit as 99% of the time its all gank almost no tank. but other races have it a lil harder as their ships need to designate a lil more to the tank or to the gank. but all in all they arent worse they are just harder to fit. not to mention nub players love the lack of capacitor from minmattar weaponry, as they dont have to train up capacitor skills as high. one must remember minmattar ships have split weapon types alot of the time which means added training, not in the first 2 ships ( frig and destroyer) but in cruisers/bc/bs/dreads all have ships with split weapons. that is not nub friendly/"
"not suported.\"every race needs a domi that can tank c3's cause a cane can only tank c2's\"you can skill up in any ship you want to fly in eve - if you dont like one - use the other."
"you fail, just because i can fly a titan does not mean it's ok my catalyst is god awful when compared to a thrasher."
"why do we still have macro ice mining after all these years? csm you need to start doing your job!!!"
"what exactly do you think the csm's job is?"
"apparently to destroy macros."
"supported"
"supported"
"ccp rarely intrudes upon ah because they want people to feel free to share their ideas (and trolls) without the threat of it getting locked because a dev thinks its cooky. however, they do monitor the forum and (from experience) do give out warnings for excessive trolling.that being said, the thumbs-down would be a nice addition so that people can discern between posts of non-support and criticism rather than post of discussion."
"dammit, where is the don't support button so i can not support this!"
"why didn't i think of this sooner!now that i consider the matter, it's true; i spend a massive amount of time just warping. i approve this idea!"
"very much agree with the op on this topic... most systems arent in any way large enough for the differences in warp speeds to be quite noticable, and most of it is the ramp up and down times!theres a thread going on similar to this, would suggest u read and support it if you agree with this thread too :)\"punching warp effects\""
"i support the original post in principle, but not details.i support this in full, provided that it doesn't become too boringly painful to fly a 0.75au/s freighter."
"good point.amendment to previous request: character will be accepted. just mail me ingame to arrange transfer."
"i mostly agree with your statements but i do think some changes could help but not along the lines most would see.i'd like to see killmails issued to/against those who are suicided. so if someone tries to suicide gank you, they lost a ship in pvp and you were the one that got them killed so they get a lossmail listing you as the killer along with concord.you do have a batch that tries to \"fluff\" their kb stats by suicide ganking ships. those numbers shouldn't be recorded -or- their losses should be and the only way to accurately show those losses is if someone is credited with the kill so...i think this would provide some metrics that are unavailable right now and would balance out actual \"pvp\" losses compared to \"free\" kills like we see now. i think it'd be cool to be able to spot \"courier a has survived 40 failed suicides...\" wanna press your luck against that guy? ... the kb's would show it if they were credited as such."
"when done wisely, there is also little or no risk in high sec hauling. you only get into risky behavior when you afk haul or attempt to haul too lucrative a cargo in an insufficiently protected hauler. this ignores the risk that the target loot is destroyed in the taking, the risk that the loot is snatched out from under the scooper-alt by a crafty profiteer, the risk that you don't have the dps to finish off the target hauler.also, it ignores the complexity of properly assessing the value of a target cargo in the short time span you have before the target jumps through a gate or warps away. further it ignores the patience and time commitment needed to actually make isk on the venture. you can literally wait for hours to find a proper target that you can alpha.suicide ganking is challenging and potentially rewarding but it is a major time sink. anyone who believes suicide ganking is easy quick money has never actually given it a try.if people were actually pro-active in taking steps to minimize their risk of suicide gank, then suicide ganking would quickly lose it's appeal. i just think it's foolish to advocate for rules changes to make the game easier for lazy play styles."
"i fully understand the rage of the gankee, but most people forget that this stuff happens in high security space, not secure space. high is a realative term. however, i do know that brs are not completly safe in hisec. one day as i was traveling to jita one got popped right beside my shuttle, and that's how i got all the bpos i use today. many fully researched"
"i seriously hate it when people ask for stuff, sorry.anyway, in my whole year of high-sec life, i've never been suicide ganked, the idea is to travel less used routes, and not use autopilot, if you pay attention to the game there is no way you can be suicide ganked.also high-sec is safer not safe.alex.p.s. when you post in the assembly hall you should have something to suggest."
"your proposal sounds interesting from a statistic standpoint. while your proposal would provide accurate data there already is a measure for the survivability of a courier. if you ckeck the finished contracts of a courier and look specifically for lowsec/nullsec ones you could assume that in maybe 1 out of 5 contracts somebody tried to suicide that courier. that's just a rough estimate of course.i think it would be interesting to have as a way of gaining recognition and a good reputation as a courier.on the other hand: the victim most likely didn't do any demage to the aggressor and didn't aggress him either so technically he just commited \"suicide by police\". maybe we should introduce a concord killboard. why wouldn't they keep records of who they killed when and what for?just my thoughts on that matter.regards, lax"
"i dont think this would actually help against the macros. as they are always 'at keyboard' they have no problem to be constantly warping between safespots, never using same spot twice hours in row."
"actually botters also use pos they dont even care about cloaking since as soon as your in system, they warp to there pos in unison.in order to get rid of this, ccp needs to admit theres a problem and ban accounts.having a 5 second delay to new arrivals being shown local would help with this possibly"
"silly question: what if you had a 'sonar' bomb launcher module you could fit to dessie hulls?cloakies should be able to slip into systems, so anything that can be easily bursted on a gate is a bad idea imo. the 'sonar' bomb would have to travel a good distance, slowly enough that you couldn't just launch one when you saw a gate flash to screw over the cloakies.what if the 'sonar' bomb had to travel a large distance (.25 au?) before detonating with a speed that would make timing gate flashes impractical. even keeping the default bomb speeds might work here.i envision a line of destroyers, creating a sonar net in a system. something an active scout could see advancing and try to evade. the burst radius of the 'sonar' bomb would have to be big enough to cover a significant portion of deep space, but not so big that one or two folks could sweep the entire sector. how about .5-1au diameter au sphere?the effect would just knock the cloak out of commision for a few seconds, enough to allow scan probers to start hunting?finding a cloaked ship should be a man power intensive practice. and a smart scout should be able to have a chance at evasion. just some thoughts..."
"hacking. it has the potential to be one of the most fun activities in eve, but right now, its completely wasted. i'm proposing a bit of an overhaul to the hacking system.first off. create 2 new skills:firewall operation (science skill) allows the pilot to encrypt their data more and more securely, making it difficult to access. 15% bonus to firewall strength per level.enhanced decryption methods (science skill) allows the user to bypass certain firewall layers. and to do so more quickly5% reduction in access difficulty per levelwith these changes, the hacking skill is changed to allow some new things. you can deploy a codebreaker unit on secure containers, jump bridges, and even poses. when activated, a small minigame pops up. in order to gain access to the items, you have to slip through the firewalls (think frogger) all items that can be secured come with a slot to install firewall scripts. which come in a number of prices, complexities, and skill requirements. the more advanced the firewall, the more layers the hacker has to slip through without being noticed. the second new skill decreases the speed at which these layers move allowing an easier time hacking.the flat difficultly in hacking something would be proportional to the cost. a pos is much more expensive and advanced then a container, and would require much more effort to hack. (and then if you want to steal things, you need to hack the ship maintenance array too) now then, in order to hack something, you need to nose right up next to it and engage your hacking modules on it. in highsec, trying to hack a can, if the firewalls catch you, you get gcced and concord comes to munch on your face. in lowsec and 0.0, this wouldn't happen but it would send mails to the owners notifying them about a hacking attempts, and if there is a 4 or 5 minute cooldown timer each time your caught before you can hack again, and if your sitting on a hostile pos with its guns wailing on you, you might only get one chance to correctly hack it. this would require signifigant balancing to make it fun and challenging, and making it difficult enough that not just anyone with hacking one can win the game, but not so hard that someone who practices enough can't do it quickly."
"i agree that something should be done with an abandoned pos. i still consider my self a noob, as a result i wouldn't know if a pos was abandoned if i tripped over it. still now that i know they exist, i think it would be good if an abandoned pos became fair game where an enterprising player or corp could take control of a such a pos and make it useful. i also like the idea that if a pos is abandoned then gradualy over a period of months it would break down to the point where it is only worth its salvage value or scrap value. sorta like an abandoned car or house in the real world."
"my main's corp has several abandoned poses. what has happened is the person who put them up stopped playing eve, and no one else want to take the time and effort to remove the pos. the result is every now and then we get a war dec from someone who wants the moon. we just tell them to blow it up, we will not interfere. \"no, that's too much work. you take it down or i keep the war dec up forever\". well a little pressure and the war dec went away.but if the pos had a self destruct button, we would have pushed it long ago.deterioration is good, but a self destruct is also needed."
"supported~"
"it should be considered abandoned the dt after it runs out of fuel and goes offline."
"well if you think about it, not just anyone can take the can from the hanger considering it will be 100,000 m3 in volume. plus the pwd on the containers will make it worthless for anyone to take if they can fit it into their cargohold(ie a freighter). the container cannot be repackaged while it has a pwd on it. although a container can be trashed after 3 weeks of inactivity, but who would want to steal a container knowing they cannot open it. essentially they would go through a bunch of trouble for no gain.and again this is still a good idea, even though most people want the poses revamped. i personally can't see that happening anytime soon. so this is just a simple fix for a simple problem that needs fixing."
"as a w-system (ws) occupant, i fully support this product"
"the reason you dont fit active generally for pvp is cause you can be volleyd as active usually has a low buffer/ and ehp. who cares if you can repair 1000 shields per second if you only have 2000 shields, and they can volley your entire shields. in small pvp if you can tank their dps you will be fine but if you cant youll drop like a brick.which tank you fit your ship with is situational to what your getting into, not determined by fitting requirements"
"i understand the reason why active fits have gone the way of the dodo for general pvp purposes and this is why it needs to be fixed. clearly something is wrong when ships with armor tanking bonuses are not armor tanking at all...too many downsides with active fits for an advantage that starts to break even minutes into a 1v1 fight, not balanced nuff said. time to start getting rid of some of these downsides."
"recently a large coalition has been so inactive it barely manages to get 100 people in a fleet, since people like to compare eve to rl i will explain what would happen in rl.if population was to die out in any country that country would be dead, no ownership or claim will be on that land and it wont exist.in eve it is different, the sov map may show everything stable but what it doesnt show is the land is a ghost land, except for botting in branch there is no activity (except pl).i propose we introduce a decay to sov, when a system isnt used it will lose sov, i know this will bother the few people left in dead coalitions, but im sure their macro will live on."
"the drone regions federation is disbanding?:shocker:"
"don't worry the leadership hung out in a 1.0 for an hour and already have 200 drake pilots.they are already dropping tcu's."
"there is already a mechanic in place that removes sov from inactive alliances."
"this. also, ibtl."
"is it it?it's it isn't it."
"having just bought my first gila, this just became an issue for me.\"ah, that drone is damaged... return to drone bay... now to launch another one... oh, which one is the damaged one?\"i thought i'd found a workaround in creating drone groups called \"fresh\" and \"damaged\" which works fine in battle, but then i've got back to our wormhole pos and found that i can't drag-and-drop the drones from the groups window to the cargohold... only from the drone bay window which doesn't show the drone groups!so now i'm going to have to fly to a safe spot, launch my damaged drones and then scoop them to the cargo hold.seems strange that when the drones are in space we know exactly how damaged they are, but when they're back in the ship we don't, and that when out on a mission the drone groups function is useful but when back at the pos it isn't.i did see a thread about this, but it was a year old and locked from inactivity."
"drone health isn't shown in-bay so carriers don't have to ask the server for the statuses of a few hundred drones at once."
"afaik this has not been corrected / addressed yet.the original thread...\"this is driving me insane and i know i am not the 1st person to complain about it.please fix the non-contrasting colors of the probe \"boxes\" when you are scanning.the colors are too close to the background colors, even worse when you dive \"below\" the plane of space, illustrated by the 2nd picture.1st picture - shows how horrible the colors are below the plane."
"already suggested and again supported"
"supported but it must not block ship scanners only cargo scanners. /support"
"why?"
"there is this thing already in game. it's orca and it's corp hangars. just nano it or do the '10 sec to warp with mwd'."
"because it would give too great an advantage to a ship defending against energy neutralizers."
"supported!"
"i want this to increase the overall control of my ships.but a question, does the shield simply stop recharging when it hits zero, or does it continue recharging and absorb a small portion of the damage?"
"anything to add to the pile of hilarious player-induced killmails floating around.\"ooops, i turned off my shields by accide-\"\"boom.\""
"supported. it would be nice to see the shields in my w-system thanny be something other than all red once in awhile."
"trust is a rare emotion in eve."
"what it says on the tin. let me select multiple items in my hanger then right click and \"sell all\". give me a general overview list of the prices. i'm tired of having to right click and sell for every damned item i have, especially when i've got 3 dozen things i just want to get rid of and i don't care too much about the price."
"or when you have months of loots in your freighter and you don't really care how much you sell them for because you will make 1 bil anyway?"
"i totally agree! it's horrible to sell an item at a time."
"supported more reasons for newer players to salvage"
"then i suppose having the extra slots is pointless then?...."
"turn mission dead spaces into magnetometric pockets when the mission-runner completes the mission. eve is supposed to be pvp after all.i am sure ccp promised to investigate t2 salvage blueprints at some point. wouldn't this be a wonderful job creation program for citizens planet side though?"
"it appears that ccp forgot to take into account that a change made to advanced learning skills in the past will result in unfair treatment to many players. this change reduced the total sp a character that had already trained any advanced learning skills. these players spend more time and sp training advanced learning skills. this was a non issue because at the time it was basically a cosmetic change.anyone who trained a learning skill before this change will be treated unfairly, against the spirit and intent of the planned changes. i marked this as urgent because i believe that ccp plans may result in the deletion of the data required to fix this issue.here is a link to the relevant assembly hall thread."
"the problem is, i don't think ccp keeps logs of when each level of each skill is trained for each character, so there's no real way to verify who should get the sp."
"when were advanced learnings ever rank 5?they certainly weren't in 2006, and i'd like to see some evidence that they ever were other than 1 guy saying that he has a vague recollection that they were."
"they never were and never will be."
"i hate the spam and scam as much as the next but imo - u enter jita knowing what to expect, its like entering low sec , u expect to be shot at etcif you dont like dont go there in my humble opinion, theres plenty of other systems to go to"
"blobbing is a thing of the past as of now, due to the struggles of inactivity the nap cancer is dead, thanks to those who supported this.i shall now move on to my next campaign!"
"so, to sum up: no intervention by ccp at all, no game mechanics changes at all, but the \"problem\" is \"fixed\".thank you for admitting that you were wrong."
"the game isn't perfect, but dumping a ton of questions into the wrong forum after only playing the game for a month then stating responses are inadequate by your measure is plain asinine. i would suggest getting more game time under your belt before you post to the forums any further, otherwise you might get wardecced and shooting stations will be the least of your problems."
"well, that would be kinda pathetic. war declaration for having creative thoughts and ideas. but i guess if i don't want to meet pathetic people, i shouldn't play eve, right? isn't that always the easiest answer?@xanieth eionwhat's unrealistic about spaceships? even if you lived in the past, it is unlogical to say that things that might be possible in the future can't be realistic. a viewpoint that sees the future as unrealistic will help it not manifest."
"so far you haven't presented any ideas in this thread, you just complain about shooting at stations. when someone states a possible reason you call his comment lame. maybe if you presented an idea on improving the game mechanics, one that is well thought out and logical then you might get better responses. as for the wardec, that wasn't a threat, just an observation."
"is this supposed to be merely a trolling attempt, or do you want to signal that you are yet another person living in the past?"
"i have just completed the live test today and had a fun time enjoying the mega-micro smart bomb.what i want to address is targeting anything in a list of 150+ enemies on the active overview is difficult, annoying and sometimes downright impossible.there's no point fixing lag and improving the responsiveness of the overview if it makes targeting pilots that more difficult, so i propose the following.having an overview setting that is tied to the sc/wc/fc overview that lists pilots only when they have been either tagged or broadcast' by a pilot in those fleet slots.this will i'm sure reduce the lag and improve fleet fights for all.what do you think? are there other ways of improving the overview to make identifying targets?"
"yes, releasing them in a chain would a an alternative to releasing them in different angles, although then you might have to wait longer when undocking, especially because you would have to plan for the different speeds of ships. otherwise a frigate might bump into a freighter from behind a few seconds after undocking."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i've never flown a bo but based on the descriptions this is what i figured: they are meant to be hit & run ships alongside the other covert ops ships. effectively bo's are your portal generators and, with stealth bombers, your heavy hitters. given the poor jump range its hard to get much done with these ships. they're not pos bashers but they ought to be excellent for pouncing on small gangs of miners, missioners, pirates...anything!i've also always wondered why they don't use cov-ops cloak? wouldn't this render the velocity boosts worthless (which means they could be switched to something not worthless)?i think the idea behind the ships are great but they need some love if nobody flies them...i'd train for one but who the hell would want me to tag along in a bo when i have other, more useful ships?"
"you cold split the bo ships in 2 classes, just like the command ships if it's so hard to balance them ccp. have one weak class handle the covert bridging (the bo's we have right now) and the other be centered on small gang ganking (no bridging, but bigger jump range, better stats). you could also use the tier 3 hulls for the gank bo's to have a little bit of variation.ps: we know how good the artists and programmers are at ccp, but you guys suck at gameplay design and balance. don't be cheap ccp, hire a permanent balance team."
"my proposal:20-30% increase blaster trackingweapon ranges are graded: pulse(abaddon+mpii) -> ac(mael+800ii) -> blaster(hyp+ncii)15+10 -> 3+24 -> 4.5+13tracking speeds are also graded: pulse(abaddon+mpii) -> ac(mael+800ii) -> blaster(hyp+ncii)0.04219 -> 0.054 -> 0.05412blaster tracking speed is underpowered. it is almost the same as ac (note: minmatar ships usually have free low slots for te for even more tracking)ac vs pulse - 0.054/0.04219 = about 30% differenceblaster vs ac - 0.05412/0.054 = about 0.2% differencei think tracking difference should be more than 0.2% considering 200% ac falloff advantage.12.5% increase blaster damageconsidering difficulties in applying dps due to range disadvantage blasters should have more power to compensate approaching time.decreasing blaster cap use or increasing capacitor capacity (for gallente ships especially)it is pretty difficult to have cap for cap eating weapon, for cap eating tank (gallente ships have active tanking bonuses), for cap eating mwd (mwd is only one chance to approach at a blaster range)gallente boats small speed boostgallente ships mostly armor tanking. they have penalties from rigs. it is killing ability to use weapon at their range.p.s. actually i do not care about blasters. now i have t2 mega pulses. they shoot with mf like blasters and they shoot with scorch like railguns. i have long and close in one suit. i am sorry for sp invested in hybrids"
"in my opinion, the problem is not that blasters are poor as such, it's that lasers are too good in the point-blank environment where you should be using blasters. remove the 25% increase to tracking that pulse got at the height of the nano-silliness. blasters may still need a bit more damage after that, but it's a start.rails are an awkward one. there's nothing the matter with the rail-taranis, and a lot of the eagle's problems are to do with pg. maybe a bit more optimal range? that would let the range-bonused caldari boats use cn ammo more easily, giving them more damage and better tracking than when using spike."
"you would still fly a slow, inflexible ship, that can't control range and hit targets properly at web ranges. it would be still useless and everything that would be archived is that people fly less amarr and more mini."
"certainly minmatar would be a big beneficiary of such a change. frankly, i think the recent ac changes were a fundamental mistake. but i disagree with the \"can't control range and hit targets properly at web ranges\" - the problem is getting there in the first place, as you allude to. it's wrong that one race is faster, more agile and has weapons with much longer range. the deimos is supposed to be balanced with the vagabond in small-scale fights; but what kinda of crazy changes would you have to make to make those two balanced with each other?"
"i would agree that blaster ships are not agile/fast enough. however what is the point of going to combat ranges with blaster ships if any mini hull(in a te gank setup) will deliver a far better damage projection at her respectable combat ranges(and in 9/10 cases the better damage on the target in the end) than you will archive at point blank with the current 60% webs? pre qr, many people did think a blaster ships put out far more dps than it actually had. this opinion is mostly based around how people did fit and fly blaster ships and the ability to deliver peak dps(what was impossible for next to any other ship bar puls fits at range) relative easy and predictable. without this the hole concept itself isn't this hot if you want to bring it for damage, and lets be honest there isn't anything else it has going for it outside of expensive active tanks with a \"gank me\" sticker on the back. i'm pretty sure i wrote down a lot about it in the diemost thread on shc. main problem of the diemost is that it offers next nothing over other t1 damage dealers at combat ranges and lacks the proper survivability to make it more attractive in this role."
"but it's not just the deimos.any blaster platform suffers from similar problems. the thorax is so cheap that arguably its loss is not so much of a blow, but it's still a very ineffective ship.the brutix is so broken that its greatest hull bonus is often ignored in favor of a second-rate shield buffer, the only thing that can give it enough agility to function as a close range bruiser.as for the hyperion? people laugh at you for flying these! again, it's a scaled up brutix and is more often shield tanked for agility and speed.the only 'viable' blaster ships that you see are the taranis and megathron - and even they have enough significant problems that they're a fairly rare sight."
"there are a few viable blaster platforms unforunately they are all on the frigate level, although the megathron is good it still gets outperform by other races bs. obviously the vindicator is good."
"one more addition to blaster change:blaster weapon pg requirements should be decreasedcompare percentage of top-tier turret pg in ship pg:------mega pulse ii on abaddon - 2475/26250 about 9%ac 800ii on maelstrom - 1980/26250 about 7.5%neutron blaster on hyperion - 2126/19687 about 10.8% (!)------mega pulse ii on apoc - 2475/25625 about 9.6%ac 800ii on tempest - 1980/19375 about 10.2%neutron blaster on megathron - 2126/19375 about 10.9% (!)you can say: \"hey, 2nd tier ships have different turrent harpoints\". ok lets compare free pg on ships after we place full set turrets and large destabilizers (2000 pg)------apoc - after placing 8 mega pulse ii turrets we have 5825 pgtempest - after placing 6 ac 800ii turrets and 2 destabilizers we have 3495 pg megathron - after placing 7 nbcii turrets and 1 destabilizer we have 2489 pg (!) hey! larii needs 2300 pgcompare yourself small and medium ac"
"i dont think they will ever fix hybrids its been over a year and i have yet to see a csm/ccp comment . at least give me the option to redistribute my 8mil sp in gal ships and my 9 mil in gunnery."
"actually, there was a comment from csm. it went something along the lines of:- \"hey, how about fixing blasters/hybrids, there's a csm proposal about it\"- \"there's nothing in the csm proposal other than 'fix them', so we're going to vote against it on the grounds that there's not enough info\"- \"more information needed\"- \"ok. i'll do something about that\"and... nothing at all has been done.this is what i wrote in the november prioritisation thread:"
"nice going, csm.\"we can't be bothered to read all those threads with proposals and list them, so let's just stick our fingers in our ears and concentrate on something easy\""
"these ideas...i like."
"supporting!the one big blob pooped out of the center of the ship is boring. even changing the big blob to a pre-rendered group of smaller blobs (it would still be considered as one object for server calculations) would look good. bonus points for getting the number of smaler blobs the same as the missiles launched."
"qftregardless, the damn thing is to be fixed by stat shifting, not the price. else one may wonder - why exactly angel ships are to be that special with their doubled (or w/e) price you suggest."
"supported. if rep drones can repair they should be able to repair their mothership. it is logical."
"what they said ^^^"
"it makes sense and gives some logi ships some extra tank in a bind."
"i don't macro, but i run a couple mining alts at once. i'm in my chair at my computer mining with a friend or two. we chat, look up youtube videos with each other, anything really to keep us entertained while mining. the point is that we are actively mining, and yes its boring and painful. mining needs an overhaul. the thing is that you can't make it too complicated otherwise you loose alot of non-macro accounts like my alts. when anyone warps to roid belt without scanning they can see all the rocks that are there. they just can't see the amount thats in the rock, but they can make rough estimates based on the size of the rock and whats left in the belt.here is my change:make roid yeilds mixed and unknown. as in when you go to the belt you can see rocks sitting there but you can't tell the quality they are or what type they are. yes the roid models will stay the same so an experienced miner will still be able to visually tell you what rocks are in the belt but not know the quality. only by using a survey scanner can you tell the type, and quality of the rocks.the second change would be to make regular belts have lower quality ores. to counter this have easily scannable sites with higher quality ore. make it just hard enough to scan that a macro can't do it. something harder then undock and warp to belt. perhaps while scanning all the belts come up so macros don't know what belt is high yeild.while this changes don't eliminate macro mining it does make it more profitable for actual players, and making it slightly more interactive. the key is to make small steps that don't shatter the eve-economy or completely stop macros all at once, but to reduce their effectiveness making them less profitable. that will put the isk back into the hands of the hard working miner, and it will keep the market prices stable aswell."
"i'd settle for a written denial of the accusations, but i guess that if ccp choses to neither confirm nor deny them, i'll know all that i need to know."
"yes! time for more frequent \"unholy rage.\" mining, ratting, or whatever."
"yeah, signed.if ccp doesn't come forward and say, or better yet do, something then everyone's going to get themselves a bot alt to run while they're at work."
"my guess is that it is very difficult to differentiate between a bot and a miner who is watching tv while mining. for that reason they can probably only track money transfers and ban accounts that purchase from the botters, thus starving the botters out. of course the botters are still driving down the value of ice and minerals through their actions while this continues, but hopefully it will eventually become non-profitable for botters to continue to operate. ccp will never say this explicitly because announcing their inability to catch botters in the act will encourage everyone and their dog to start using bots.in my opinion the only way out of this conundrum is to change the way that mining works to make it involve more conscious decision making on the part of the player, thus much harder to create a bot. that being said i would like to hear some words about ccps plans and actions regarding this problem."
"for what its worth.this is too widespread for ccp to do anything about now i fear. doing so would dent their player base alot more than they realise.what makes me laugh is the forums on reboot (makers of h-bot)shows 3473 members today but give it a few weeks and i am sure it will go up loads. all that article on evenews24 did was make everyone aware of how easy alot of these bot systems are and the fact ccp don't seem to care about it. surely the sensible thing is to take action against those actually making the bots ?"
"supported. i would like to see a response from ccp addressing the concerns of their players. i would also like to see a response from the csm on this issue. the silence so far from both ccp and the csm stinks."
"fully support an explanation of current ccp activities/plans on this issue as well as some words on why they have failed to deal with an issue that is well know to be an issue and has the potential for such large imbalance to the game (i mean fixing rockets was nice, but.....)"
"i would like to know what is being done about this too."
"this issue is of utmost importance to the survival of your income ccp. act or risk to loose it all!up to you."
"agree. would be nice to see some kind of response from ccp"
"i support this"
"completely agree, it'd be reassuring if ccp showed us theyre aware of the problem, even better if they told us they are working on a solution! +1"
"while i don't take the en24 series of articles as gospel, i would say that it'd be nice to use it as a catalyst for ccp to give up some numbers on botters and devote way more attention. unholy rage really seems more like a publicity stunt than a sustained campaign. my wife worked for ncsoft for a while and they did something similar and banned thousands of accounts during a purge. but then the botters and rmters were back and the gm staff had already turned to other issues. and that seems to be exactly what happened with ccp."
"unholy rage only focused on rmt and even then those people were temp banned, but yes there should be an open report on this.most botting or scripting sites have open info on how many times their bot has been bought, i sadly couldnt find info on macro mining (which is equally bad and shouldnt be ignored) but more than 6000+ ratting bots have been bought.an additional 3000 were used for the script that reads direct from memory, or rather 3000 active accounts using that script.forums on these botting sites repeatedly mentioned that you would only get banned if you sell your isk for rmt, there was alot of \"i got banned by selling xxx\" and \"do not sell this way\" but not even a single \"i got banned because i was botting\".unfortunately for the obvious reasons i cant provide links but i am sure it wouldnt take long to confirm what i have written.the worst part is theres several major requirements for bots to work which are openly stated on these websites, some so simple as changing the ui."
"lets see."
"there is going to be a discussion of rmt during at least one session at the december csm summit next week. rmt and botting are issues that are of interest to more than a few members of the csm."
"good to know. from my personal perspective i see players that use bots to gain in game advantage greater evil than bots that do rmt. no doubt somewhat harder to catch as well unfortunately. as one can buy isk anyway from ccp as well for rl money. they do destroy some markets ofc and are evil as well making some professions in eve not worth it for real players."
"theyre not only causing damage to eve marketplace but also hurt ccp in the same way by generating so much isk for so little effort, that the plex system is coming back and biting their ass!less bots = less debatably illegal plex purchases for game time!"
"hate rmt and bots =\"
"i was thinking of suggesting this proposal.supported."
"i beleive, ccp doesnt care about bots.i beleive csm does care, but they can do nothing, because ccp doesnt care.give me a proof, that i am wrong."
"supported."
"i honestly don't care about rmt, as long as the isk is earned without the help of bots.as for the bots users, i wish some serial killer would hunt them down."
"can you emphasise to them that although botting and rmt are related, they're not the same thing. they can't only approach the problem from a top-down demand-side perspective. whilst gm investigation teams and such like are valuable and necessary, they can only treat symptoms, not causes.there are changes that could be made to the game that would make it inherently harder for bots that would also improve gameplay. when eve's pve is fun, challenging and unpredictable, then we will see bots decrease because people will enjoy the actual process of making isk.give us missions, mining and plexes that can't be done more efficiently by a macro than by a real human."
"would like a regular figure (qen?) on how many bans were handed out & how much isk was removed(total, not individually).ccp will never tell us:what measures they use too identify bots- it would be akin to asking your bank what burglar alarm they use..how many staff are involved- it would allow people to make a judgement on how likely they were to be caught"
"i support this"
"supported"
"supported. also there should be some discussion about rmt that occurs internally inside one corporation, alliance or coalition. that is, one (or more) members of a corp make alot of isk by bots or other means, then \"help\" other members by giving them isk. and real money also trades hands. but there is no isk seller web site, or isk spam that ccp may be using to track rmt down."
"support"
"honesty don't think ccp cares, and if they do care, then they have given up, i've reported a few groups of miners that i'm 99% sure are botters. none have been banned."
"support."
"and the answer of \"we can't talk about what we're doing for security reasons\" is unacceptable to those of us with strong backgrounds in information security, particularly opsec and incident response.hiding behind a wall of secrecy has not fixed the problem or conjured up the stolen data tapes... wait, wrong sf universe. still, we need actual answers and a concrete, workable plan to move forward.i can think of no more important topic for eve right now, even with everything else currently happening."
"supported!"
"supported"
"i support this"
"supporti think  almost does nothing. for a long time i in them was disappointed"
"ccp wrangler made it sound more like a discussion about rmt only, can you confirm if it will include a discussion on botting that doesnt involve rmt.also since people are focused on macro ratting, can you make sure all forms of botting are discussed, i would hate to see macro miners and macro haulers ignored."
"to the top so the csm's can do their jobs."
"all player structures have to be destroyable, one way or another.and i don't want to hear any carebear bull**** from ccp about clones and personal items in the hangar - all must be destroyed."
"signed. include fleet alliance channels"
"*signed*"
"supported"
"i see no reason why this should not be in game. it also seems like a very simple change. supported."
"*squish* :) looking for that sound now :p"
"i am sure this is going to be asked already but just to be sureincarna: why the **** should people who don't care about the rp aspects ever touch this \"feature\"? will they force us to do in five minutes what we currently do in 5 seconds? ie repairs, fitting, dealing with agents, etcseriously, what does incarna bring to the table beyond a more person shaped internet spaceship chat room?"
"where's the new jump drive effect damnit."
"definitely more information on botting and rmt. with all the deep technical insight and talent they have there, i have difficulty believing that they've not found ways to escalate the war against cheating.also, please don't let ccp slip on fiction and content. just like other issues, those of us with a significant interest in this area have seen projects get dropped (epic arcs, fiction \"patching\", etc.). abraxas and dropbear are the point men on this, as far as i can tell."
"105 eve pilots... so that less than 1%.sorry, i don't value the opinions of such a minority."
"thanks for taking the time to see where i'm coming from. it seems like a number of balance threads like this, and this relate to the same issue with people mostly either taking the stance that \"active tanking is broken and that's the way it should be\" or that \"xyz is broken, should be nerfed to improve active tanking\" with a minority with there head in the sand for whatever vested interest they have with the current situation.personally, i agree with you on the \"fixing the issue ship by ship\" with a less rigid slot and bonus system, but where not even at that stage yet. i don't think the ccp even knows it's a problem, and thats a problem.1/10 poor troll.polling 0.1% of a population is actually a pretty common percentage for many rl opinion polls."
"."
"i dont really see anything wrong with the myrm tank wise, although on topic with the subject im going to agree to changing active tank bonuses to resist bonuses. as i found out last night the xl cyclones tank is only slightly better than the xl cyclone"
"i cannot provide enough supports for this.as a nearly exclusively self-loathing gallente pilot, the irritation and misery imposed upon me by having to fly shield tanked brutixes is one of the main reasons this gimped and badly thought out faction holds such appeal for me.kronos, hyperion, brutix, astarte, eos, myrmidon... need i go on? all these ships are so badly thought out that their biggest bonus - these ridiculous active armor tank bonus - is ignored, and they are fitted instead with shield tanks (apart from the kronos, which more often than not just isn't flown at all)as for shield active tanks... i don't really fly them so can't comment."
"sounds good. it's lame how the maelstrom etc are only good for pve really."
"ill try not to rant and be constructive as possible;in my opinion taking part in factional wars should be a choice ie to volunteer yourself to fight for the caldari, amarr, minmatar or the gallente which on paper is correct as you physically join whatever faction you can and fight for that cause,but as in life there are some 'like me' that isnt interested in politics civil war or factional disputes, i do my 0.0 activities, when in need of a break i do some missioning or whatever i can do without the stresses of continued pvp etc.howeverwhile taking a break doing some missions for my level 4 agent i seem to be getting mission after mission against amarr/caldari faction,now i do understand i can choose not to do the mission or accept the mission, for me though accepting the mission i lose standings with the amarr/caldari which (after 7 yrs of doing odd mission breaks) i wont be able to fly in those factional areas of space(please also understand, i enjoy being a mercenary which needs access to all areas to be combat effective, now im not a merc atm - taking a break, but i may chosse to go back to that line of work sooner or later)recently ive noticed more and more factional missions which i have to decline as my standings will (even with relevant social skills max'd) lowernow after '5' factional missions one after the the other declined im geting to the point i may lose my agent.-my point is this;choosing to decline a factional mission with your agent should 'not' result in loss of standings with that agent (unless ofc you are actually choosing to take part in factional warfare)ive chosen 'not' to take part in fw yet it seems its being forced upon me.i dont want to have to choose another agent - why should ii dont want to run missions with the amarr/caldari at level 1 to offset the factional mission damagei propose any factional mission refusal 'should' not affect ur standings or affect ur standings less than other non factional mission typesorfactional missions should 'not' be given more than twice in a row****edited to change proposal**"
"to avoid this issue i use sisters of eve. they rarely give out faction kill missions.the other method is to get more agents you can work with, so you got options once that 4 hour timer is running. especially good if you get agents of different factions so you can balance those storylines.but, aye, it would be good to be able to tell the agent \"don't even bother offering me faction kill missions, i'll just decline them\"another method: for a reduced reward, the agent will cover my tracks, hiding my kills from the offended faction. this happens automatically on a few missions."
"deffo worth noting the soe dont give them out but for me that means starting again at a lower lever agent and moving my missioning ship/equipment and another j/clone to a sisters of eve station, for me thats not a option and tbh unfair"
"not supported.the moa model is pure sex. it's a pity that the ships that use it are generally less than spectacular."
"supported.kill the moa. kill it. and while you're at it, murder the imicus as well."
"supported....100,000,000%its funny seeing how many people favor this vs the ones that don't. lol"
"it's been a long time i'm thinking about that, and i'm sure i'm not the only one.but wanting some opinions.the idea would be a new region which has some rules from 0.0 and some others from w-space.- it would have no local- it would have normal sov rules- it would be systems linked with stargates- but these sg would have limitation on mass like wh. systems wouldn't allow some ships like titan and sc. some would not even allow normal capitalsmeaning, like on w-space only solution would be to build them inside.may also have a limitation on total mass, to avoid too big fleetsinterest :- allow a region without local while on 0.0, without changing rules on existing 0.0- the limitaton on stargates would mean that big alliance have no advantages here, meaning it would give their chance to small alliances- this would allow a new layer between classic 0.0 and w-spacepotential problems :- do we really need new regions ?- is these rules on system would be good ?what do you think ?"
"i'm not sure why a little incremental tinkering doesn't get done more often... (i.e. keep turning up rail guns tracking and damage or something)i would support one of your big changes, but don't mess with all the rest.give all battle ships one more mid, and one more low slot. do not increase current fitting capacity.the one low slot could give more capacity elsewhere... or just make the ship a bit quicker... making them quicker and giving them another low slot might over do it... one might not be enought but then again it might be.the mid slot would be extra tank (more for shields athough the extra power there would help active armor fits) or a bit of e-war making that escape option a bit more possible...)alternatively those slots could be used for the tracking or sensor strenght you mentioned.basically one mid and one low would make battlships a lot more interesting to take more than twice the finacial risk over a bc of basically the same over-all utility (witht he extra vulenerablity factored in)."
"battleships don't need changing, battlecruisers and the overall game mechanic needs changing in order to really make battleships the backbone again.its a real shame too considering i love my typhoon so much but have not been in one in pvp in so long."
":o"
"lower tier bs guns(i.e. duel heavy/250/etc) get..50% sig res reduction33% tracking boostand then, if necessary, a moderate damage reduction.and then a large assault launcher that fires heavies.bs instantly become more viable, and the red headed stepchild of turrets gets an actual purpose finally. two birds with one stone.tbh, i would also agree with double the sig res. once the sig/explosion stuff came into effect, it was unnecessary.more drone bay across the board, for all ships, would be nice. again, a balance that outlived its purpose once the bandwidth mechanic was implemented.more slots? possibly. i'd make the other changes first and see how it goes from there. maybe one slot.as for the cost of bs, a general rig rebalance that buffs the rarely used rigs to make them much tastier choices for pvp and pve, instead of trimarks being the best, period, no questions. one other option that i dream of, and will never happen..-bs get a rather significant fitting stats nerf, so that they can only fit 2-4 large weapons-rather significant damage bonus to large weapons to account for this-damage/use bonus applied to all sizes of turrets-same number of turrets slotsthe norm would then be 2 or 3 large weapons, and then a couple smalls and meds along with it.cruisers/bc would get the same treatment ofc."
"something needs to be done either to probes or to minimum warp range.1) make cycle longer? i don't like this though, it's hard enough to catch people as it is. something needs to be done about instant on-grid warpins though. therefore:2) make minimum warp range 250-500km? i'd prefer longer, but any number would be ok, really.suddenly long range bs are back. then only thing left is removing 250km lock range limit and fixing rails. rokh becomes a beast, shooting **** from 300+km away, mega ****s everyone in it's range thanks to high dps and good tracking, tempest alpha people left and right from 100km away and apoc already has insane tracking with beams.i have no idea how to fix lr bs though. currently bc are just plain better."
"i love the way that if all the changes were made that the op requested were made despite being hideously imba vs sub caps sc hotdropping. eve would turn in to nano bs supercap wars.honestly how can a post about bs balance completely ignore hotdropping.failfailfailfailfailfix uncounterable cynos and bs get an effective buff, along with small gang play in general. all thats needed is a cynojamming probe for dictors or something."
"that's a bad change that effects every ship in game more than battleships. it reduces number of tactics available for long range pvp.more than half the time, forces that warp on top of sniper battleships come from off grid.and this warp change effects only long range combat. it does nothing at all to encourage short range battleship usage. it is short range that battleships are least used for. sniper battleships are doing much better, tho suffering from fast probing"
"sure i agree with you on your numbers.fine as long as your frig is passive.rifter ftwwhat if you need to run lasers or blasters.what if you need to run a small armor rep or small shield booster.pretty screwed over by one mod right ?yeah i know how to fit my ships to make them work with the current game mechsbut would eve be a better game if there were 4 basic types of fit to build variations on instead on 2."
"first off. neuts are fine. that being said i would love to see fewer utility highs on most ships, in general, so the answer for bigger ships against frigs is having their own frigs. (gasp)"
"i wonder if there is some bttf fans...there is a short video:"
"in the spirit of previous gift ships i propose that it's speed should be hardcapped to 39 m/s."
"no problem, it's need to get at least 25m/s for time travel well, i'll fly it anyway, and also buy additional ones from contracts, attributes doesn't matter"
"dont you mean 88, makes much more sense."
"39 meters per second is 88 miles per hour."
"it's bit more than that, 88/2.236936~39,3395. the point being since all gift ships are supposed to be pretty much useless, you need to cap the speed so it can't reach the speeds needed to initiate time travel. good thing it worked so well and i didn't have explain the joke or anything"
"can i use it to go back to the time when eve was a good ga- oh wait eve was never good"
"there is your problem. you are mining ice for isk.ice is not mined for isk, it's mined to keep pos alive.if you want to mine for isk choose abc, veld, scord or something."
"they don't use a custom ui, they use a custom client. as in they took the standard one and reverse engineered it. its similar to command prompt. text only, issuing and receiving commands."
"ccp stop macro users!!"
"sure, since you asked.what they use is a specialized client. basically, when the eve online client communicates with the eve online server, it's just sending basic communication stuff. \"fly there\", \"mine that rock\", \"sell this item\". the server sends the same stuff back. \"you are here\", \"your capacitor is empty\", \"the pirate hits you for 1000 damage\". now the trick here is that the actual program that talks with the server (that is, the client) does not have to be the eve client. in a way, another program can \"pretend\" to be the eve client, but even that's sort of unintuitive; the client and server communicate in their own \"language\", but all that's important to the server is that the messages it's receiving from the \"player\" are in the right language; not who or what is doing the speaking.the \"clients\" macro miners use aren't graphical. if you saw it, you'd think it was accounting software or something equally mundane. for some, there isn't even that; it's just a command terminal which outputs text.your solution is somewhat tantamount to putting up a roadblock in order to keep helicopters from flying into a country."
"actually there are sort of four levels of macros.timing macros. these use a basic keyboard automator to just repeat a set of commands over and over, timed out properly. the eve client is unchanged, it just reacts to the commands form the automator. this is what many think of when they hear \"macro user\". most proposals for changing the game to defeat macros are based on the assumption that this is the only type of macro you need to worry about.bots that read the screen. the eve client is unchanged, but also running is a program that reads the screen, uses optical character recognition to find and read windows, and sends commands to the client. the more effort put into programming it, the more game uncertainty it can deal with.thin clients. this is a replacement of the client with a different program, and that program interprets what comes from the server, and sends information back.the sweat shop. very low wage people multi-boxing 12 hours a day. not really a macro, but does support rmt. but such people could also be managing bots in real time, so if something were to happen that the bot does not understand (like a forced convo from ccp) the manager is alerted so he can deal with the issue.we need to find ways of removing them all, and do it without harming the innocent."
"i have one"
"your point?"
"that more people use titans than use black ops. it's a spoof of the titan watch thread in caod."
"lmfao i have one widow"
"becouse titan-60bill,supercarier-20bill,blackops-500mil,in gametitans 400+sup.carriers 1000+bl.ops maybe 100sup.car 1-2 per weer deathtitan-bl.ops maybe if is lucky day 1per monthccp boost bl.op i think 2x and its still is **** ship"
"they have had years to get ccp to stop macro users but have done nothing."
"oh ffs.first, this is not a proposal, so reported to move to gd.second, the csm cannot force ccp to take any action. they can raise concerns and advise, and that's all. ultimately the decisions are made by ccp."
"..."
"reserved for a smart stuff"
"0/10, bad troll."
"no!"
"you're being too generous."
"sounds like a \"i lost a ship because i was warp jammed\" whine..."
"really mature, calling other people troll.but you just talked about yourself...aren't you?anyway, sometimes i do feel like proposing children with mental issues to wash theirs hands before eating, because they just touched poo...but that is how assembly hall works.most of proposal are beyond understanding to many players.but for those who understand, and dont support idea.do you have any reasons why this change shouldn't happen?"
"no points for you.on a more serious note... if this idea was to be implemented i think you'd see a sharp rise in uber-tanked ships along with the formation of bigger and bigger blobs to take down such uber-tanked ships before they go into warp.can you even imagine the amount of dps necessary to chew through 100k+ ehp tank in under 15 seconds (the ballpark align time for a battleship)... or how much more it would take to break through and pop an active beast-tanked malestorm?worse yet... without the threat of warp disruptor equipped frigates or hics capitals would prance around low-sec with impunity.\"sir? it appears that they have incoming reinforcements. can i get back up?\"\"you don't need it. points don't work in empire. go back to station.\"\"oh, right sir. thank you sir.\"totally not supported."
"personally i dont see anything wrong with overtanked ships.if you want to pvp as a real boy, then why not give you chance to use it, on people who have that module fitted, active or not?hmmm, but not on those who dont want to pvp.as for capitals, pos attacks, repairs...etc...it would only be fair that any action like repair, cyno use, drain, neut...whatever would allow anyone to use warp jammer on you. or engaging other players directly or indirectly....how about that."
"i'll give you benefit of the doubt and assume you are just incredibly stupid instead of a troll.low sec piracy would become extinct. only fleet setup able to kill anything would be artillery ships. ruining every weapon type, apart one - checksmall ships would become useless in pvp. interceptor, frigate? who needs tackling when theres none.ruining newbie pvp and all ship types that are not bs - checkcongratulations your idea would ruin everything apart from artillery bs, even for them it would suck."
"don't use such strong words. it'll only make you look weak.but even the weakest among us deserve compassion, which will i share in the form of knowledge. if we look at left side, and at the right side, up and down, you will notice that low sec is surrounded by wast portion of 0.0 sec. in which things would remain the same. which would mean that instead targeting, i dunno 15 days old characters because of yours desperation for positive kill ratio, you as a pirate would target those who have more booty. player alliances and corporations, griefing and pvping freely.but question remains, if i cant force you to mine in low sec, why would you be able to force someone to pvp?"
"this is, without a doubt, the worst idea i have come across in a long time.a. you're trying too hard to be difficult to understand. stop that. it's not funny, it's annoying.b. i'm not in favor of this idea. i'll explain why, even though i know you won't listen anyway, as evidenced by your previous posts. you're not interested in a discussion, but i don't some hapless new player stumbling upon your thread and thinking it's a good idea.your basic argument is \"if i can't make you pve, how come you can make me pvp.\"pvp is what drives the eve market. without pvp there would be no reason to do pve because no one would need anything that pve generates. who needs minerals when no one loses a ship? why should i risk my precious mission ship to generate lps for items no one will buy because they already have five of them?and if you think the pvpers don't do pve, you'd be surprised. pvp is, in reality, a net loss activity. you can make short term gains from piracy, etc, but in the long term you're more than likely going to lose more than you make, which means that you need a way to fund that activity. some pvpers will, no doubt, sell gtcs and plex, but a lot of them run missions, or hunt down sleepers, or what have you, until they have built up enough funds to go back to doing what they enjoy most, pvp.so my retort to your argument is this - pvpers are already forced to pve, so why shouldn't they be able to force you to pvp?oh and not supported."
"so you are in the group which wouldn't profit...but that is hardly an excuse to be rude.i am giving my best to explain as simply as possible this idea.and your post is just a prof that you didn't get it.nobody is talking about removing pvp...that would destroy eve as game which as you described is heavily leaned on it for sandbagging.but as you said yourself, pvp oriented players have a choice!they could sell plex, or they could do some pve activity.for things that i know, even pve main characters have one or few pvp alts. but thing is that pvp oriented players are free to choose.while current game mechanic hardly keeps things in balance.i will not start talking that industrial t3 and faction variants are really long overdue. as for pvp issue, while i also consider it as important, most of pvp is happening in 0.0, to say simply most ships explode in 0.0. and those who wish to freely pvp without minor or major influence can do that there.so there wouldn't be any lack of ships exploding. this would only divert attention of pirates to corporations and alliances, increasing overall losses. and diminish newbie ganking, which is of no interest to anyone, traders, pirates or newbies.interesting fact that even ccp did say that current low sec mechanic should be fixed, none of you actually seen that there is a issue with big high sec bubble which simply will not burst.so none of yours post can be seen as anything near reality.and you are feel free to give your ideas on how things should be changed."
"things need fixing in low sec but taking away warp 'jammers' is a stupid idea.it would remove pvp from low sec almost completely, only caps and large artillery fleets would be left. there would be no reason to call it low sec anymore.low sec needs something unique, not something that turns it into high sec with capsedit. high sec with caps and no way to stop people warpingedit2. low sec should be more dangerous than 0.0 its a place for cut-throats and thieves, all the low life scum. 0.0 are essentially player controlled countries"
"atm i<U+FFFD>m carebearing in highsec.i run missions.sometimes i mine (rarely).i produce things.i thought of giving you a vote, the first one here, for the lulz, making me looking the same dumba** as you are.but after reading that you were involved in the removing of learning skills which might me make \"bitter vet emo rage quitting\", there could only be one answer:/not supported"
"and i thought i was asking for the impossible when i asked for mids slots for frieghters. low sec is meant to be lawless and thus you're allowed to grief, steal and kill whom ever you like. if you wanna be a carebear in eve then that fine. l4 missions will make you a good daily income. if you wanna do l5s then you're going to have to enter low sec. you should learn to adapt your overtanking pve ship rather then trying to make it super easy for you to warp away when a prober comes into your mission and brings his mains nueting ship to gank you. besides theres no money in low sec honestly. low sec is a massive graveyard for ships. if you go a week without blowing up is because you've spent a week in a station. any money you could make from moon mining btw already has a massive pos on it. and pirates run daily roams for those plexing. either adjust for it or stay in .5 and above when missioning."
"thank you. at least one person here have some reason, and not flamethrower.i said that i would happy to support any proposal from anyone. im not saying that this is ideal solution, and yes it would force pirates to adapt or emoquit.but i disagree with idea that low sec should be the most dangerous place. because eve is based on balance risk vs reward. if it is, and devs feel that it should be, then natural resources, including commandeers should spawn exclusively in low sec, with best moons being there and best planets, belts, \"dungeons\"...etc.but that would make 0.0 people suffer. not to mention that it would be rather pointless in hold sov. so its best to forget about idea that low sec should be the most dangerous place.even if it is atm.personally i blame killboards...some pirates would pod theirs own mothers in velators just for fun.because people are desperate, they even kill theirs own alts...dont ask me why.so logical conclusion would be that punishment in form on negative security status is small.it should be increased so that, while everything would remain the same. empires will not endorse piracy, which would mean that lets say for example all players with negative sec standing can be taken down in high sec, with or without kill rights.second all those who have -5.0 security status will not be able to dock anywhere in empires except in pod.how those changes would affect piracy?could there be a profitable mining operation in low sec by high sec people if insurance for all people with negative standing would be removed?"
"the reason no one really mines in low sec is due to the fact that the ores in low sec are either the same or worse than the high sec ores isk wise, so there is no reward for the added risk of being in low sec.low sec should be the most dangerous cause from an rp stand point there are no concord and no true sovereignty(empire only). isk wise though if you are ready to put the work in, like researching and so on, low sec is very good isk wise. its just like you say there are people who just sit on choke points popping haulers to get there kill/death ratio up and make them look good and its because of people like this that proper piracy (ransoming etc.) is dying out."
"this is a shortcut from a player complaining to on the assmbly hall forum thread about macro miners in 05/2009"
"reported for spamming.moron."
"the csm can bring issues to the attention of ccp. i think ccp is very much aware of the macro miner issue so what is the csm supposed to do about all that?"
"csm help to stop macro users!!"
"oh sweet mother mercy.if anyone blame ccp. what is the csm supposed to do about macros?"
"eve is an international game. english is not the first language of everyone playing this game.stop being a ball sack drake.i'd wager 100b isk his english is better than your finnish."
"i'll stop when people start giving a crap about how they communicate."
"this board needs this."
"screw peoples feelings."
"the proposal of this topic is to make 0.0 rat spawns in belts much tougher.currently the most difficult spawn will consist of 3 rat bs with maybe 3 rat frigs which may or may not scram a player.this is very little firepower on the rats behalf.much much easier than the vast majority of lvl4 mssions in empire.yet the rewards are almost double.considering that a player can warp to safe and cloak with ease when someone enter localrisk <<< reward for this type of encounter.i propose that belt rat spawns be much more variable.change the max number of ships from 6 to 20.give a much higher percentage chance of tackle ( scrams and webs )frigs 75% chancecruisers 50% chancebs 25% chanceracial ewar to remain as is.this will increase greatly the chance of a player or bot being tackled when another player jumps into system.now there is very high risk in null sec belt ratting.it will take much more skill to stay alive out there.makes writting bots to automate the process much more difficult."
"also remove the ability to \"chain\" rats.once dead a rat stays dead."
"not supported.chaining is the way how you make isk in 0.0 space. its one of the main incomes why people want to go there. it already collides with miners, so you basically cannot chain, if there are miners in the belts.it will not stop macro miners in any way."
"sure, so long as the rats get updated ai and target new people joining the fight.and a very low risk for cloaky pirates. this makes it easier. won't even need a point.right now the risk on the pirates part is not getting a kill, and the risk of the ratter is getting killed. if you want the ratter to have an increased chance of dying, you better be prepared to accept some of that medicine for yourself to."
"wah wah, i want carebears easier to gank. why dont you come over to cloud ring and we can set up some pvp for you with people who actually want to shoot back?"
"the problem isn't macro miners but macro ratters."
"just give all rats the sleeper/incusion ai"
"i remember several years ago belt rats used to be stronger - more scramblers, and player ships had lesser tanks (no rigs)then for some stupid reason ccp decided to dumb down the game yet again and take out most of the tacklers. eve used to be so much more hardcore years ago than it is now."
"boost all rats. make miners actually have to tank their barges"
"last i checked...the rats where pretty darn strong enough and we had to tank our hulks pretty damn hard in 0.0 *branch specifically*while i have to agree with the rats being easy to kill....buffing them would disrupt a few things balance wise.so i'm going to say not supported for now."
"if a hulk can perma-tank 0.0 npc spawns - the game is designed wrong."
"exactly. well said.vets are witches! burn them!they turned me into a newt!"
"covert cyno to high sec"
"this change would make it easier to avoid pvp in null, low, and high sec.bad plan, imo."
"plz explain how you came to that conclusion.otherwise its about as usefull as me saying \"you opening your mouth is a bad plan, imo.\""
"opening ones mouth usually is a bad plan. there is no telling what could get in there.the reason the proposal is bad is because everything would be happening faster in space which means reaction time is going to be slower.you scout a gang in a nearby system and you have less time to catch that gang.you scout a viable suicide gank mark and you have less time to prep for killing.there is one primary instance where this change would actually enable pvp and that is in the case of ganks on non-bot ratters/plexers who will have less time to become aware of the danger.as a whole, however, i think this change would increase survivabiliy in the game."
"reaction times arent going to become slower... reaction times will become more of a factor on whether you get what you want... a kill or an intact ship for example. and reaction time is a property of the object behind the keyboard not the game mechanic.you also have to realise that a change to this would affect everyone including you as an attacking force, so yes you might have a little less time to reach your target, but luckily you get through systems a lil quicker so it balances out the situation. not to mention if you're in a gank squad going after a few strays, you'll be at a high state of concentration with quick reactions, unlike your targets.btw glyken, ur an absolute legend in finding this! cause it clears a lot of guesswork and fancyfull ideas out! plus at least we now know ccp has answered on the subject! many many many thanks!"
"my apologies, i am a moderately experienced player, i can fly all t2 haulers and freighters, and i have stopped flying haulers through shipping lanes period because of the risk. however, lately, it's pretty much any ship carrying cargo, and sometimes any ship that gets caught in aoe damage. i am in a corp for training new players to eve, and we have so many new players loose ships in high sec to pvp'ers that it's really become a problem for us loosing players. additionally, even senior players, myself included are getting sick of it. it's been a problem for a long time and no serious fixes have come out for it. eve follows the model of \"elective pvp\" and players have found a way around the game mechanics designed to promote this, and have gotten so efficient at it that it's very negatively impacting the game experience.i think the suggestion for not paying out insurance on concord killed ships is 100% valid and should be instituted without delay. however, like many i am not sure of the affect this will have, ganking is lucrative w/o insurance payouts.i also don't think that players jumping into empty ships in space to get around criminal flags is valid either and should be fixed.one idea i had was to allow jump freighters in high sec, this would certainly alleviate problems with loaded freighters going through gates.however, i think the whole \"criminal actions\" thing needs to be re-thought. the whole premise at the moment seems to be that the penalty for misbehaving is that you loose your ship. but in the case where players have planned for this eventuality, and it is not a strong enough deterrent, then another form of penalty should be levied. in civil society, we have civil law for this sort of thing, and it comes down to compensation. i think if you made it expensive, above and beyond the loss of a ship for a player to continually operate are a criminal in high sec. i think the faction holding security should levy \"fines\" against criminals for capital damage, and levy accounts, payments etc made in their jurisdiction (sovereign space). so if you do 10m in damage to a ship under caldari jurisdiction, any isk you make under caldari jurisdiction would be taken to pay that fine.lets force high sec pvp'ers to follow the rules, and use war decks and other game mechanics for thier pvp."
"as it stands suicide ganking is only a threat to people who transport exceptionally expensive goods without a proper tank and/or entourage. if you can't transport it in relative safety, don't transport it. try these rules or hire someone else...or just don't bother moving such expensive goods.rule 1: don't fly what you can't afford to lose. use a freighter and go slow for the huge ehp or take multiple trips in a deep-space transport with fully loaded tank.rule 2: if rule 1 isn't enough, have corp mates protect you. gankers will fight concord...they won't fight concord and friends. even bring a logistic or two to ensure you're too much a pain to take down.rule 3: if you don't have a corp...mercs. if you can afford such expensive items that people will gank you for even one or two of them, you can afford mercs.rule 4: in the event the expensive good is very small (blueprints, faction mods), consider a light ship like a covert-ops or even a shuttle for hisec - these ships are difficult to target and hit, and you'll be through/away from the gates long before anyone can nail you.rule 5: should all of these be too hard, boring, expensive...take up mission running and complain about ninja-salvagers, at least they only hurt your wallet not your ship.as a final note, unless you have something productive to handle suicide ganking, don't just complain about it. you aren't the first and you certainly won't be the last to note one of the many game-sanctioned illegal activities. pirates have mouths to feed too! there are many threads in features and ideas to support if you want to change the system...but be aware that the current system likely won't change much as it is in line with eve's philosophy of \"nowhere is safe\". also, consider baiting. if you want to deter suicide gankers just employ anti-pirate methods: bait the gankers and have a fleet ready to ensure that they can't loot the bait even after concord nails them. once it becomes obvious that you're a risky target, gankers (like common thieves in rl) will move to easier and more predictable targets for the sake of efficient money-making. it's not that gankers are cowards so much as they aren't stupid: why attack fort knox when there are hundreds of banks that can be robbed?"
"for a minute there i thought you had actually read that post but then again clearly not.this isn't just to do about hauling if you thought a little harder it is about all ganking. gank a hulk, a faction fitted bs for what? either the luls or isk gain in both cases the gankee rarely can be touched. - 10 means little and +5 means even less. even with your view on how much time it takes to gank, even if it were an hour and you only make 300mil from a gank. how long did it take for the other hundreds of people involved beforehand take to get to that point of value. where as a t1 fitted cane with artilleries takes little and costs next to nothing when insurance is paid.ganking is far too easy and there is absolutely no punishment unless you are absolutely awful and fail to alpha a indy ship. i've done it, you've probably done it and most people in this thread have probably ganked a few haulers with an insta pop but the balance just isn't there. there is absolutely no down side again when it comes to the \"security status\". it clearly doesn't make sense for example when a -10 who is well known for smartbombing perimeter gate in jita is allowed to move freely, concord should do something or there should be some restriction in place. perhaps to make it fairer across the board... gate guards should be buffed to decrease locking time and fitted with some viable dps. therefore moving a low sec character around high sec for ganking wouldn't be as easy. currently a few stabs gets you anywhere."
"those who didn't agree with you are alts or mains of people who love to grief. they should be avoided, discarded as used hanky...not something that you should listen. but i agree with you that sanctions for suicidal ganks are laughable, but blame devs for it."
"i always thought concord should be allowed to pod -10s in highsec. that pod/orca/gank strategy in highsec is ridiculess loophole.also: remove \"insurance\" for concord losses or stop calling it insurancei always had the idea that gankers should not only lose security standing but also lose standing towards those factions the victim has good standings to.on a sidenote: i'd be happy to do all the hauling for those who feel that highsec hauling is too risky. with a sensible amount of \"combat payment\" of course. (my opinion on highsec hauling is still the same: it's not risky if done right... not even lowsec hauling is risky if you know what you're doing and have proper equipment).regards, lax"
"fypthere is no proposal in the op. not supported"
"i admit, i work in acquisitions. i'm also an accomplished former mission runner. i also have 'close friends' who are accomplished industrialists who have to consider risk when hauling their high value cargo. i'm well versed on all aspects of acquisitions, so please understand i'm not 'failing to read' posts or properly grasping the magnitude of this aspect of new eden. there is a measure of care all would-be targets can take to minimize risk. i know because i've ganked hulks for lulz and i've seen them get away because they were smart. just last night i gank a mission runner in a kronos who was decidedly not wise even when presented evidence that they were in danger.i'm not going to go into details to elaborate on what these pilots should be doing to protect themselves because frankly i don't want them to be employing best practices, but to claim that their aren't things that they can be doing right now to make it more difficult to gank them is either ignorant or lazy.you are underestimating the amount of effort that has to go into the logistics side of suicide ganking. they have to stage ships too. once they scoop someones loot they also have to safely get the goods to market without getting ganked in return.beyond that, you presume that anyone has the right to retain their valuables once they've undocked. this presumption is wrong. ccp has re-enforced this notion again and again. they simply do not want high-sec to be a pve environment sterilized from risk.do you enjoy ratting up your sec status? it bores me to tears. i feel as though i'm under the lash of my amarran task masters back in the pleasure pits of my youth when attempting to repair my relations with our concord overlords. if i don't repair my sec status then roaming gangs i partake in are limited in their navigation choices. also, socially i sometimes feel as though i'm viewed as a piriah. i flash on overviews and mothers give me forbidden stares while their children hide in their skirts. it cuts me. cuts me deep.this doesn't even factor in the persecution by the faction police. just this week i accidently jump my brutix into a .9 system. i hadn't even targeted anyone and the police aggressed me. they didn't even ask me to pull over. i nearly lost that ship and it was a simple accident. you simply don't know my pain. that spaceland patrol kronos we popped last night... i had to scan a hundred faction ships or more before we were satisfied with the potential yield of the hall and even then half of the poor bastards fittings were vaporized. it's tragic."
"...and further regarding consequences, when i destroyed that kronos my security status slipped by some -.20 points. do you understand what i have to do to repair that?i'm going to have to destroy at least ten serpentis battleship class vessels to pay the blood ransome of concord. thats probably tens of thousands of families that will lose their fathers and mothers so that i can return to my operations in high sec, faction pirates have families too you know. concord is literally demanding the murder of countless people to overlook my acquisitions business.the price is not high enough, you say? you bloodthirsty savage. the price is nearly too high to bare. nearly./me sheds a tear for those poor serpentis childen i'm to orphan tonight."
"ed: typo, more slander.tl;dr.1: someone can't understand ganking mechanics and how to avoid them.2: whine and cheese on the forums.3: bittervets chime in and laugh.4: someone tries to actually help the op5: op refuses to change his playstyle.6: go to 1.on a more serious note. i've been flying br's in high-low-null since forever. i've never lost a single one, even when bubbled and intied to hell.man up and get your offsets done. get some reliable intel, and don't ****ing autopilot. (yes. this also includes setting destination and taking the shortest route, you mentally handicapped dimwit)"
"so right now we have large blobs with a ton of logistics remote repping eachother. sometimes combined with a very low sig radius.so here is a small suggestion.add a sig radius bonus to the remote rep. no need to be big, but need to be unafected by stackingpenalty.1: no penalty on amount repped2: massive use of remote reps on any ship will make the sig radius go up, and cause it to recive more damage.example:normal sig radius: 100msig bonus on remote rep: 5%so with 1 remote rep it`s only 105m sig radius. not a big difference.add 5 more reps on the ship and sig radius goes up to around 134m.- smaller ships will be more affected then bigger ships, as smaller guns are already doing good damage on bigger targets. on the other hand smaller ships will get smaller sig bonus as the bonus is in %.some observations:lately the drake ond zealot has been standing out as the most used ship when it comes to this tactic. drake will maby not be that affected since it is already get sig penalties for it`s shield use.anyway, ccp said in it`s latest economical report that they had their eyes on the drake and it`s use. and lately on the killboard we can see that it`s use is sure going up.i`m quite sure ccp will do aomething with it, mechanics around it or maybe logistic ships itself, who knows.with this small change none of the ships itself is touched/nerfed.-should the bonus/penalty be a fixed value instead of %.-should the reppers have different value, large reps give higher %/number then smaller ones?-should drones have the same penalties? or should they be without to make them an option, but at the same time be target for smartbombs/bombs?discussoption/supplement for proposal:balance the powergrid usage/cpu usage on large remote reps/sheild transporter versus x-large local boosters/ large reps. example: local t2 large rep: 2300 pwremote large rep: 660 pwand at the same time they rep more then local rep."
"this wont really make any difference to the drakeblobs, as with a couple of large shield extenders and 3 shield rigs fitted, drakes are already bigger than some battleships (about 380m, from memory)."
"a mwding drake even gets full damage from dreads.your idea mainly punishes the ab armor hacs because sigradius is a big part of their tanking plans, but for bs or bc blobs it is mostly irrelevant. so if your plan was to reduce drake blobs. you would just nerf one corner of the rock-paper-scissor theme that is running around atm."
"they have had years to get ccp to stop macro users but have done nothing."
"bots dont use local - they read directly from eve client memory thus when you enter system your client knows someone entered system even if you would not be shown in local. so you would screw over 'normal' players by tampering with local while not doing anything to bots. if anything you would encourage normal players to use some third party 'tool' as well, that can read directly from client memory and warn them that there is hostile near by if you remove the in-game-legal way in the form of local channel of knowing it."
"if you fly in cov ops ship and do not fit a cop ops cloak you fail."
"you have had years to put pressure on ccp to stop macro mining why dont you tell us players what you are doing to stop macro ice miners. is it because the large corporations and alliences use macro ice miners to fund their operations and you dont want to offend them? the eve world is waiting for your answer."
"reprocessing strip miners is not very interesting due to the loss in minerals. other t1 items might be more interesting, however these practices should not be discouraged by increasing the volumes. adjusting reprocessing numbers would be more of a discouragement."
"ok your right, smartbombs are short range. however, regular bombs have a range of 15km, so this already exists in game."
"i like this idea a lot. current bomb prices of 10.000+ isk would mean that you need a substantial amount of isk to search the whole solar system. next to that hunting in groups has to be coordinated well to avoid accidents. the cargo hold of the participating ships might be an issue too."
"yes to better data mining, no to hacking a pos/pointless minigames."
"this seems fun. adding hacking an enemy ship might be nice. random system failure would be cool too (weapons/engines/shields) and pretty much anything."
"adding more gameplay to mechanics like hacking are a good idea.giving it more ways to be useful than hacking one kind of exploration site, also a good idea."
"timezones. you forgot it.therefore, not supported."
"i have had towers that were without fuel, inactive due to other demands on corp time, for periods of several weeks.the idea of allowing \"abandoned\" poses to be \"salvaged\" or otherwise claimed is appealing though.after three months the pos remains anchored, but ends up becoming \"neutral\". whosoever is first to put fuel in the \"neutral\" pos and start it up gets to claim it as theirs, perhaps?"
"this needs some more thought as its only useful in whs. and you arnt getting a freighter into most whs. but the general idea is sound."
"you don't understand. active tanks for pvp will always be a bad idea (unless small scale, like 1v1 or 2v1).the only way to make active tanks viable for fleet pvp is to add a buffer bonus... which is already in game as buffer tanking."
"damn owledge lolhave the csm got any plans to bring the major problem of botting to ccp?"
"from what i recall \"back in the days\" it was required to have the tier 1 skills at 5 to get the advanced, but the rank of the skills wasn't changed."
"the funny thing is you actually are aware on a game mechanic being wrong and aware of a problem with blobbing, besides you never even read what i written and by the looks of it didnt read what anyone else wrote.so i will do what i do always, grin sit back and laugh at you when the changes happen, but dont worry you can always be a forum warrior for your new alliance, i am sure it will be a spawn of nc too.cryptic? well what else would expect this early on, i mean it isnt even 2011 yet, i cant just spell things out now can i"
"hey, finn, did he send you a whiny, tearful email accusing you of stalking him as well? or was it just me that got one? if so, i'll gladly forward it to you for your amusement.ps apparently i'm an \"nc supporter\""
"[ 2010.12.09 13:22:24 ] musical fist > looks like finn and malganis are at it again, i bet if i made a thread on ah finn would instant reply to my blob thread[ 2010.12.09 13:23:29 ] xxxxxxxxxx > blob whine thread which one :p[ 2010.12.09 13:35:47 ] musical fist > lol ill send that **** an in game message, chances are he will put it up on caodlike i said, predictable and stupid"
"itt: we learn that a 4 hour gap is \"instant\"."
"yah, forward that along please. obviously i don't get the specific nc hate, but even beyond that i don't get the general hate for coalitions. they rise, and sooner or later in eve they fall. it has always happened and almost definitely it always will, and in the process their life and times provides the meat of the player-created content that's in eve. the rise and fall of bob defined much of 0.0 warfare for close to half a decade, which is an eternity in eve time. and while i enjoyed fighting against them, i simply can't grok raging against their effectiveness and the coalition that they'd built, or using the forums to try to fight them rather than getting a fleet together. ah well."
"whatever you say.i will slow down in skilling up (72 sp/hr).and i want my 25m(?) iskies back for the skillbooks. i don<U+FFFD>t care if dr. e. gets a stroke when inserting whatsoever trillion iskies into the game.see you at the courts."
"station camps are totally realistic. in empire if you pay for a war you get the opportunity to shoot war targets without faction or concord repurcussions. if you attack other players without that official sanction then you are attacked by the station guns. what exactly is unrealistic about that?also you're not taking into account the session timer, thus the reason why multiple ships can exit the station at the same time. without that session timer any person who stops their ship immediately after undocking would cause a pileup without it. maybe you should just consider that session timer the same thing as tractor beams or whatever.why exactly is it you are so concerned about getting this game to a state where it is hyper-realistic?"
"26 pages of approvals. wow! that's gonna get the csm's attention. i also support the idea of bring back the old cyno-jump effects. they look even more awesome in the trailers like the one in quantum rise (when you saw a gallente titan cyno-jumping into the federation space)."
"bump."
"supp!"
"a long, long time ago, in a galaxy far far away, there was something known as eve. the year? 2003.let me tell you a story about mining 0.0 during these long forgotten times. picture, if you will, a landscape devoid of life. a landscape far beyond the colonized reaches of space. there were no outposts. no pos. no conquerable stations. to get the valuable megacyte, you had to venture far, far out into deep space, many jumps from the nearest refinery.in this mystical land, something else was very weird. you wanted to strike it rich mining that oh so valuable bistot and arkonor? of course you did, who wouldn't? so you set sail out to the depths of nullsec, found a suitable asteroid belt, warped to it, and found...nothing. not a rock, not a sign of life other than the occasional rat. \"where is my precious ore?!\" you screamed!those weak willed often gave up at this point, despondent at the lie of riches. those with more fortitude and cleverness, however, might think to themselves that perhaps the ore is out there, and i simply cannot see it. and so those people would fire up their faithful dscan, activate it, and loe! rocks! plentiful and magnificent!but where exactly? and now the hunt began. those without prior knowledge, who came solely to mine, were ill equipped for this trek, as the miner must first seek out his spoils before gathering them, and doing that required finesse with the scanner, and a very fast ship, for there were thousands, even tens of thousands of km of empty space to cross, while constantly checking their scanner and adjusting their course.and so the way was made long, and the way was made difficult, but for those who truly wanted what 0.0 had to offer, it was possible.the devs, in their infinite wisdom, ended up fixing the grid sizes, so there was no more need to actually hunt for your rocks, and shrank the belts to the size you see now, pale shadows of the behemoths they had once been.this is probably well before almost all of you joined, as it only lasted 6 or 8 months after release before the 'fix' that ruined it and made mining the brainless drag n drop exercise it is now. but it was awesome. i want it back. the feeling of dscanning that rock down and taking that dual mwd punisher 10,000 km towards a reading that said only 'arkonor' for 20 minutes or half an hour, and to finally emerge on the grid and see that lonely red rock set against the black backdrop of space, nothing else around for hundreds or thousands of km, then scanning it while crossing your fingers and hoping it wasn't a dud, was amazing.i mined, those many years ago, in the fnxl-q system. long before it owned it, or bob before that, or cfs before that, or any alliance owned anything at all. it was empty space, with only a few corpies and the extremely occasional pirate stopping by. every jet can of ore had to be taken up to gehi through the a2 corridor, a 38(?) jump round trip(i was damned good at making instas in those days). i'd bring up loads of ore, and bring back a hold full of giant cans to make my mini settlement in a safespot, where i also parked my scout punisher, and mining thorax(and later apoc) with a bay of harvies.good times. paid for my first few battleships that way. probably my favorite time in eve.so how would i fix mining? i'd go back to that. make the easy offerings in belts anemic compared to the riches beyond the grid, that you must scan for and fly to. and not the weak, easy probing, but actual dscan navigation, or at least a combination of the two, and even then, you won't know till you ore scan it if its worth wasting time on or not.plus it kills the bots without killing multiboxing, since you can scout while mining, but i'm betting a bot that dscans would be difficult."
"i mine about 50% of my time and yes it tedious and yes it does need fixing..i'd like to see some combination of hwat's been suggested already1) keep the current belts but reduce the number of roids, and hence the ore volume and make 90% of them a mix of the two commonest ores2) add a number of clusters than can be found with just the ship scanner or 1 probe - like the 100% auto lock anomalies. it's take about 2 minutes to go out scan these bookmark them then get your miner out. put the less common ores into these clusters.3) substantially increase the number of hidden belts and put better and rearer roids into the other combat type anomalies, so that to actually mine there you first need to kill the inhabiting angel/guritas/sansha defenders ... then add a variable timer so that having lost contact with their outpost they send some ships to investigate ... how much time have you got to get those high value roids. i bet 100% of veldspar/scordite/omber roids in most mission deds/cosmic deds never ever get mined"
"mining revamp is way overdue, supported."
"get rid of belts...except for tiny rocks in n00b systems--and make them very rare in empire, a few more in low sec, and a few more in null. scannable sites or mining missions for the rest.get rid of ice fields...they make no sense."
"supported. mining shouldn't be an activity that feels like manually botting your own ship."
"after reading this post about how so many players make billions of isk without any hard work, i decided to by few bots to all my accounts.i want too billions of isk every day. and when i sleep - bots will make it for me.if others botting, why i need to make isk like idiot in hard way and sit near computer for many hours every day?! i will bot too....i go to search that link to site where i can buy a good bot for all my accounts."
"supported, of course.no point in having rules if they're not going to be enforced."
"you and everyone else if ccp comes out looking like they don't give a sh*t about it."
"the two topics have a large degree of overlap; at this point, it is impossible to say whether they will be discussed together, separately, or a combination.within the framework of the meeting sessions, csm summits are very organic. consider for example how the hot topic in october was microtransactions, and how it got discussed in several sessions."
"my enthuasiasm diminished thoroughly when i noticed a system i use to live in was over ruled by bots in high sec. it was bad back then but not nearly all the population of the system is bots. a directional scan results nearly all mackinaws and hulks and when you go to locate them out of about 30, 29 of them are on an ice belt in npcs corps day in day out."
"while i appreciate the subtle 'we are going to stick our head in the sand for botting for now' reply, do explain what the hot topic is right now? is it rmt or is it botting, because the replies that we are seeing seem to yet again ignore botting and focus on rmt."
"good point tbh, an article shouldnt make people aware of how ******ed things areccp are already dealing with rmt, these botting sites have a **** load of a \"we got banned from selling isk\" on them anyway, people are always getting reversed isk.we are aware ccp focus on rmt, what is concerning is that they only seem to focus on rmt, i am starting to believe the rumours that have been flying around for months now that say ccp will only ban rmt and will ignore botters in general.another thing to mention, rmt is really easy through botting not the other way around, banning people that rmt will still allow their bots to run, their bots will continue to provide isk for buyers, the only difference would be more reversals.i think if ccp ignore botting, people should just give up and resort to one form of income, i look forward to hearing what ccp have to say next week, but somehow i doubt it will affect botting. at least allow us to see additional stats on the map, rich npc systems (like dotlan) if ccp are going to ignore botting give us quick easy tools to counter them ourselves :p"
"i constantly hear russian put the bot, russian unemployed and so on. indeed constantly see bot which are connected with europeans, usa.i think ccp knows much more about rmt than we are... i think some ppl in ccp selling isk on ebay. i think they use not only bots. exploits too.have fun."
"yes"
"spam bot supporting this thread"
"we definitely need unholy rage ii, iii, and iv!screw it... how about a neverending unholy rage!"
"yes"
"support"
"support"
"supported."
"this would be interesting"
"an easy support."
"/signed"
"did i support this already?apparently i didn't..."
"yes to isk sinks"
"moar isky sinky"
"easy."
"what good is the assembly hall? csm has not done anything to put pressure on ccp to stop macro users. is it because they are in bed with the large corporations and alliances that use macro miners to fund thier operations?"
"hey wartech.i disagree with what you said."
"you need more alts for trolling about bots."
"thank you trebor keep us updated."
"the more graphics the better...i know it'a what hooked me on eve in the beginning."
"client side renders of hits and misses should be displayed after dmg roll is done."
"supported.cloud effects need some rework to reduce the massive fps drop when zoomed into them"
"yes to this. i think there should also be battlefield debris like the clouds you see in the trailers."
"supported for this alone."
"magnificent. completely agree"
"+1...end the container spam in hangars."
"this deserves support"
"after invention came out, i wanted them to warn people for a year ahead of time, and at that time, replace bpos with bpcs equivalent to the number of runs of that item they could produce at max skills in a year(at the pe/me of their original bp, or some highish compromise number). would have given 1 year warning on any sales, and knowledge that it would last another 2 years, easily enough to get moneys worth out of it."
"tech 2 bpos are sold for 2.5 to 4.5 years of profits, depending on the bpo, btw."
"just cause you are goon doesn't mean you are _required_ to act stupid and ignore everything ccp has said regarding that issue...in any case, ccp really needs to start being more active in hunting non-rmt botters, as has been mentioned."
"how long you been playing this game? what ccp said six months ago has literally no bearing on their design today.edit: lol at the alliance who gave us this calling me stupid."
"where exactly does incarna feature description say that it will take 5 minutes to do repairs, fitting, and dealing with agents?"
"if i had to walk down a series of hallways to an agents office or repair bay because ccp wants to force us to use their new chat room"
"sorry to sound like a broken record, but rmt and botting are chief concerns of myself and my alt. csm needs to go into this with the knowledge that rmt and botting are happening en-masse in all of eve, with the disctinct possibility that drones regions are experiencing more of it that other regions. (i say possibility because it's just that - i've seen accusations, but i'm not willing to stake my reputation on it).i'm also interested to know if there are any plans to add faction modules to the market. adding faction ships to the market has been a great thing, so it seems to me that faction modules would be a natural successor.thank you csm for the great work you've been doing. i think that you really have been doing a great job representing the interests of the eve player base, and the game is going to be better for years to come because of your efforts."
"i agree with everyone here so far. bots/macro's/rtmer's are the main concern. not only does it hurt mining, it hurts the economy as well, the market, pvpr's. how you ask? miners - brings cost down on everything do to the supply&demand being way more supply then demand. economy - cost is way down, it's good and bad. market - again, the cost goes down do to the high supply and less demand - pvpr's - less and less people risk the low sec, 0.0 areas do to it not being profitable. eliminate the macro's/rtmer's and not only do you solve that problem, you solve market issues, the economy gets better, higher risk and profitability for both miners and pvpr's. a solution to this problem would be to create a system kinda like the aip, \"pmws\" (potential macro warning system)which would notify ccp of a potential macro/ptmer account. then ccp could look into that account instead of hundreds of petitions wkly by players, which usually nothing is done about anyway. another solution would be to bring back the \"true old school\" way of mining."
"itt lots of people saying theres a problem but not supporting the thread!"
"with the right setup (implants, boosters and tengu) i assure you it's exceedingly powerful in pvp. the maelstrom is an example of an active tanked ship working as intended. which is why i was so terribly wary of any changes to it's tanking bonus prior to actually crunching the numbers. it's also worth noting that the proposed swap of active tanking bonuses for resistance bonuses actually harms it's active tanking ability ever so slightly."
"not that i believe that the maelstrom's active tanking bonus should be replaced with a resist bonus.but if you did, it would lose 2% in active tanking strength, whilst gaining about 12-15% in rr, ehp, and passive recharge in various tanking fits, whilst gaining 25% more ehp and rr effectiveness with no tanking mods fitted.far from a fair deal tbh."
"was wondering how wh dwellers would deal with the npc fix. btw there is no general rise of neuting npc's. the only change is that wh npc which should have been neuting all along, now will."
"the answer, or part of it, is in point #2:flip them around so that active tanking modules, with all their downsides are easier to fit than buffers. combine this with an overall increase in active repair at with an equivalent increase in cap use, and you either mix'n'match tanks, gimp your fit for buffer or gank-fit with active.in answer to the question \"are racial active tanking bonuses good?\":hell yes, they are godly. problem is that they scale worse than anything in game. throw in more than a few dudes shooting you and the bonuses are worthless .. nothing else in game has that level of depreciation."
"those missions are in place for a reason. if you could pull nothing but gurista missions all day long people would farm the crap out of missions and easily clear upwards of 60m/hr without considering lp at all. the introduction of drone and faction missions is to add consequences to mission running. if you drop a mission and pull another one that you prefer to drop you have to either suck it up and take the standing loss or wait 4 hours to drop it without penalty. in the mean time do what the rest of us do and get another agent to work for. hell you might just be working for the wrong agent type as some give crap missions constantly.your solution allows you to play the game in easy mode without considering the consequences of your actions and punishing those who actually figured out how to work around that obstacle to our benefit.most importantly try figuring out how to be better at the game instead of dumbing the game down to your level."
"i dont think its dumbing down the game, the missions should be random from a agent pool im just suggesting alternatives to getting countless factional missions - i clone jump once every month or so to do a handful of missions and they appear to be all factional, this is a massive change to what it used to be like a few years ago,i still think and porpose doing factional type missions should be a choice without a massive hit to the standing of ur agent if you choose to decline,maybe if you can decline a factional once every hour rather than 4 hours, that way i could decline log off and come back a hour later rather than wait for 24hours or something like that,orreduce the hit to the agent for declining a factionaloh and if i wanted to reduce the game to ur level ill probaley stay docked"
"to red raider: if you listen to the self-appointed eve irs whine-squad, high-sec mission runners already clear that kind of income. it's also worth noting that several of the most valuable missions you can pull, at least on the amarr/caldari side, are against gallente/minmatar - those tags are worth money after all, and clearing 120 mil from enemies abound is not uncommon. rogue drone missions do have a tendency to be crap, but there's no 'consequences' as you put them - you decline the mission and get another one, or just blast through it if it's an easy one, and carry on.to the op: while i will generally go ahead and do faction missions, as one of those people who doesn't like the idea of locking myself out of half the high-sec galaxy i like this idea. i think it could use some tweaking and refinement (just switching off faction missions entirely is too much, and as i said some of them are great isk) but the basic premise is sound. sometimes you just get a string of faction missions and not even multiple agents can save you from having to sit around for a few hours spinning ships."
"i am a long time member of eve and have played since beta, so when you talk about \"old school\" i know exactly what you mean. when 5,000 players was a record, the war that changed eve forever, when npc's were actually a problem. anyway, i have noticed the market prices and how it keeps getting worse and worse, for us who actually are miners, from the macro's or whatever whoever you want to put the blame on. i believe something needs to be done to fix this problem and if it means more hulkageddons, then so be it. ore/ice has dropped so low, you can't make a living doing it anymore, no matter how long or how many accounts you have. these macro's are killing our market and it's not only a loss for us miners, it hurts the pvpers as well. less and less people will take the more dangerous route or to mine in low sec, because the prices are so low, it's just not worth it anymore. so if you have any ideas, thoughts, or suggestions on how we can get rid of these macro's for good, please reply. i mean ccp, isn't there a way you can tell? aip? logs? if not, then why not come up with a system to deal with this and let the market rebound. make it a better supply&demand vs way too much of everything do to macro's. it's a problem way over looked and is in need of a solution. maybe ccp needs to go to a system where every ore/ice once mined/harvested is gone and only respawns after either a certain amount of time or down time. it would solve supply&demand issues, the macro issue and the market would take a huge rebound."
"i see what you did there. as a miner you felt your writing should resemble the form of a solid block of unrefined ore. cool stuff brother.the problem here is you need to actually propose something. \"do something, but i don't know what!\" isn't going to be something a csm member can put forward. until you have some kind of an idea how to actually fix things, it might be better to talk this thing over in the science&industry forum section."
"2 things ruining the prices atm1. insurance nerf not long ago. imho it was kinda obvious that the prices will drop the to the new payout. not sure why they did it anyway.2. ice mining might be less profitable due to less towers for sov."
"whole \"imma miner in a mining ship carving asteroids\" thing is unsuitable for pod pilots, imo. ccp oughta change mining to passive ore generation already aka pi and bring some decent sim city aspect to colony operations (not current brain dead stuff it is). ability to reimburse sp and isk is already in game so they can get rid of it... this would obviously also include possibilities of pilfering stuff from someones colony like it should be in eve and lowsec/0.0 destruction or takeover of such facilities."
"you are absolutely right! the market system in eve is entirely based on a supply vs demand model. and there is so much supply, that there is very little demand. so let me get this straight- you are a miner, and you don't think that the falling market prices have anything to do with yourself? the blame goes onto a certain group, yes, but you are part of it. what do you mine? do you keep any of it, or do you just flood the market yourself? do yourself a favor and read up on silver thursday. the silver market had been cornered by the hunt brothers. as a result, the prices went up to almost $50 per ounce. you see what happened there? the high demand for silver made the market value skyrocket. as soon as the brothers were forced to release their assets (a third of the worlds silver), the market price fell. why? because there was more supply than demand.so if you want mineral and ore prices to go up in your station/system/region, then you need to reduce the supply. only then will there be enough demand to make the prices rise.if you have been playing eve for seven years, i am going to go out on a limb and say that you have earned a lot of isk. this means that your options are better than most people. if you want to make a difference try some known market manipulation tactics. ramping might be especially effective if you can muster the manpower, and resources to do it to an entire region (because market averages are calculated by region).day after day, i see people telling others (especially noobs) to sell everything they get from missions and mining. and while most people might be happy with the instant isk that these activities provide, there comes a point when you have enough isk to consider options.you have reached that point.there is your solution. so what are you going to do?."
"stig sterling - you actually haven't given any solution. i actually don't sell alot on the market. i have alot of players who have played almost as long as myself i contract to. and i don't just mine, again i have played since beta so i do do alot of things in the game. i have noticed how hard the market has been hit since the dawn of macro's/ptmers and feel there should be a solution, not a temp fix. it's not just bad for miners. all ccp would have to do is come up with a system/device or whatever that would identify macro's/ptmer's much easier. it would be a warning system that sends a warning to ccp to look into certain accounts letting them know that they might be potential macro's/ptmer's - \"pmws\" (potential macro warning system) - it would help eliminate hundreds of petitions wkly, fix the macro/ptm problem, fix the market and make it more profitable for everyone in eve. trying to fix a well known problem is not whinning, it's simply trying to get ccp to solve a well known problem, not for just miners, but for everyone and to better eve. if i complained that hulkageddon was stopping miners from making isk, that would be whinning and actually i prefer to have hulkageddon more often, maybe once every 2 months, that would also help with this macro/ptmer's problem as well. i'm all for it. so to those who think i'm whinning and am only a miner, now you know that i am all for hulkageddon and actually wish it came more often, that i have come up with a solution and would like help making it happen."
"a long, long time ago, in a galaxy far far away, there was something known as eve. the year? 2003.let me tell you a story about mining 0.0 during these long forgotten times. picture, if you will, a landscape devoid of life. a landscape far beyond the colonized reaches of space. there were no outposts. no pos. no conquerable stations. to get the valuable megacyte, you had to venture far, far out into deep space, many jumps from the nearest refinery.in this mystical land, something else was very weird. you wanted to strike it rich mining that oh so valuable bistot and arkonor? of course you did, who wouldn't? so you set sail out to the depths of nullsec, found a suitable asteroid belt, warped to it, and found...nothing. not a rock, not a sign of life other than the occasional rat. \"where is my precious ore?!\" you screamed!those weak willed often gave up at this point, despondent at the lie of riches. those with more fortitude and cleverness, however, might think to themselves that perhaps the ore is out there, and i simply cannot see it. and so those people would fire up their faithful dscan, activate it, and loe! rocks! plentiful and magnificent!but where exactly? and now the hunt began. those without prior knowledge, who came solely to mine, were ill equipped for this trek, as the miner must first seek out his spoils before gathering them, and doing that required finesse with the scanner, and a very fast ship, for there were thousands, even tens of thousands of km of empty space to cross, while constantly checking their scanner and adjusting their course.and so the way was made long, and the way was made difficult, but for those who truly wanted what 0.0 had to offer, it was possible.the devs, in their infinite wisdom, ended up fixing the grid sizes, so there was no more need to actually hunt for your rocks, and shrank the belts to the size you see now, pale shadows of the behemoths they had once been.this is probably well before almost all of you joined, as it only lasted 6 or 8 months after release before the 'fix' that ruined it and made mining the brainless drag n drop exercise it is now. but it was awesome. i want it back. the feeling of dscanning that rock down and taking that dual mwd punisher 10,000 km towards a reading that said only 'arkonor' for 20 minutes or half an hour, and to finally emerge on the grid and see that lonely red rock set against the black backdrop of space, nothing else around for hundreds or thousands of km, then scanning it while crossing your fingers and hoping it wasn't a dud, was amazing.i mined, those many years ago, in the fnxl-q system. long before it owned it, or bob before that, or cfs before that, or any alliance owned anything at all. it was empty space, with only a few corpies and the extremely occasional pirate stopping by. every jet can of ore had to be taken up to gehi through the a2 corridor, a 38(?) jump round trip(i was damned good at making instas in those days). i'd bring up loads of ore, and bring back a hold full of giant cans to make my mini settlement in a safespot, where i also parked my scout punisher, and mining thorax(and later apoc) with a bay of harvies.good times. paid for my first few battleships that way. probably my favorite time in eve.and that my friends is mining and how it should be. bring that back."
"being around since late 2003, i can remember those times as well, especially traveling 20+ jumps (one way) into 0.0 just to mine some bistot with a thorax(!) and an alt with an indy.off-grid roids were wonderful things back then as they offered 3 things in one go 1) relativ safty from ppl 2) no npcs 3) lots of ore and if you were being careful and did not pop it you could come back a few days later and mine them again. from what i have been reading not so long ago ccp is planning to move roids off the static grid and into probable sites giving them a lot more control on what spawns where possible counter to macro-miners(?).untill that system is implemented (1-2 years) i willing to let that issue lie low as the mineral prices have been hurt by the curent macro-miners/drone-regions/mission-runners/etc. bad enough and i want a good long lasting solution rather than some short term fix.ps: thank the devil you finally formated a post of yours"
"csm have you done anything to stop macro users? if you have why dont you publish what you have done. macro users have been in eve for years and you have done nothing to stop them!"
"the csm recently published a report in which they described the measures they've undertaken to combat botting, including but not limited to hunting down botters and tracking them to their home addresses and then unleashing a horde of wild ferrets on them. i lost the link though."
"i want new regions with at least partial npc sov and npc stations - this is the only way to insure that new regions are available to general public, not just the mega alliances.general public deserves fair access to new no-local regions.npc stations should have high quality agents - perhaps a little better than regular 0.0 agents cause of no local.asteroid belts should have a little higher rewards - about 20% better asteroids, npc spawns, faction spawns, officer spawns, than equivalent npc 0.0 region. the extra reward is due to no local.these regions will probably be even further away than all other regions, and people would have to pass thru alliance controlled choke points to get to them, which also merits some reward increase.there should be at least 5 new regions, each with its own npc type: serpentis, blood, guristas, sanshas, angels"
"warning: tl;dr proposali want to take a moment to talk about systems vs content.in mmos, there's a phrase for describing the generic quest: \"verb number noun\". the most traditional form is \"kill ten rats\". it's an observation that most quests in mmos tend to be dry rehashes of the same basic task, each dressed up in fancy description text and giving you a slightly different colour of gnolls to slaughter. perhaps these are dire gnolls. when people use it, they use it with a sort of ire; they're sick of doing the same thing over and over again.but actually, it's just a small part of a much more sinister problem without a terribly easy fix.suppose you have a mission designer. his job is to design missions. he is given a little tool which lets him design a deadspace pocket. he spends several hours writing out some interesting flavor text. he then sets up the mission; he designs a deadspace pocket, rats, triggers, ai behavior. he tries to balance out the rewards as best he can. his work is then overlooked and checked for basic balance issues, put into place and approved. it gets shipped with a major update. the process could take anything from a day to a week, depending on how smooth the internal management is.a player comes, skips the text, blitzes the mission in 20 minutes, turns in the reward, moves onto the next one.nobody is really to blame for this. it's just common sense; it takes longer to produce content that it does to consume it. you see it everywhere. games take years to make and only hours to beat. a movie can take billions of dollars and be watched over the space of 2 hours. even if an artisan is remarkably talented, our best bet for return of investment is to try and distribute the same content to a large number of people. every person pays 50 bucks for a 10 hour game. they're paying for entertainment at a rate of 5 bucks an hour. that's less than minimum wage for one guy. so they sell that same content to as many people as possible.now this all works fine.. but people have rising expectations. content for games in particular was cheaper to produce way back in the day when your player character consisted of 512 pixels. players become harder to please, content becomes harder to develop. things get worse and worse. eventually, the entire thing collapses in on itself.so what do we do about it?we move to systems.\"system\" is a broad term, so let me narrow it down a bit. a system in a game is anywhere that a calculation appears. \"content\", conversely, is anywhere a fixed set of parameters appear.content includes ships, modules, flavor text, stations, what have you.systems include the way damage is calculated, the way ships fly, the way rigs influence your shield, what happens when you warp into a deadspace pocket.. but it also includes larger and more general things. the modular nature of ships is a system. the way planet textures are generated is a system. the way that you can go out into nullsec and blow somebody's pod open, that's a system too.here's what it comes down to: all of the best parts of eve, and i would argue of any game, are the systems. you can even use systems to generate content; that's how planet textures work, after all. ccp certainly didn't paint all those planets by hand. most importantly, systems are recyclable. they're far more cost effective than developing fixed content, especially for a player-driven game like eve.my proposal is this: that ccp should, where able, try to move away from static content, both now and in the future, in favour of new systems. this means things like ship crews and sliding-scale meta levels. it means upgrading old or dull systems like mining or pi. it also means a switch to developing content procedurally; modular and randomly generated starbases rather than a fixed number of models. randomly generated missions. randomly generated and modular ships.it beats a week of development for a 20 minute mission."
"some of these suggestions sound a bit excessive.that said, battleships in general do need a boost considering there rather drastic decline in usefulness in the fast few years. the addition of tier 3 battleship hulls were definitely a step in the right direction, but lack of modifications to almost every other related category still leaves them worst off.- serous revisiting of slot arrangements on a case by case basis. where the abaddon may not need any improvements, the hyperion or the tempest certainly do.- slight tweaks in other fitting characteristics. dominix powergrid for the love of god.- modification of large weapon capabilities. damage ratios between short and long range weapons, their ranges and tracking capability specifically.- a very hard look at hull bonuses. where some are useful, others are not. bonuses for capacitor use on the armageddon is only necessary because the ship lacks the capacitor needed to support it's weapons. likewise the megathron's tracking bonus is only useful because blasters lack the tracking necessary to hit targets well at the range's that weapon system is limited to.fully supported."
"gasp..... you sir are genius except fail at the same time.cause i imagine in your mind the perfect 10 man gang is like 3 bs 2 bc couple destroyers and a couple frigs. where in all fairness it is far from the truth.simply put 1 v 1 a frigate should not beable to take a bs. thats like a lav taking a main battle tank, and we arent talking flukes. or a frigate size ship vs a destroyer or battleship. yes they might miss more. but when they hit they would essentially wreck you in one shot. so im all for fairness and equallity but if we go for that then really lets be realistic. if your in a frig you wont go for anything bigger than a cruiser cause it will trash you. neuts asidewhat in your mind makes it ok for the smallest ship in the game to beable to take the largest sub capital (non t2) ship in the game 1v1 sorry no go.heres an rl example i coach peewee football, if 5 of my linebackers came at me i am 100% sure that i would win. sure they are prolly a lil faster and there are several of them. but that doesnt equal out to you instantly win. now dont get me wrong a flight of 5+ frigates in eve should wreck a bs. easily even 3 frigs should wreck a bs. but 1v1 no chance in hell.so stop puffin the magic dragon and imagining yourself in your armor rep inty flying through a fleet of bs at like 50 m off each raping **** cause its not gonna happen. basically 1v1 fights t1 should be like thisfrig<destroyer<cruiser<battlecruiser<battleship<capital<supercapital< fighterbomber<frigate......thats the circle of eve. 5 jaguars could make easy work of all major offensive weapons on a super carrier and laugh at him while a single sabre holds him down neuts or not. jags fly cover for sabre taking drones sabre keeps at 35k and as his bubbler recycles he does a fly by and bubbles. not to mention if that supercarrier is attacking caps they can pick off the fighterbombers before he can return em then hes useless.everything has its place and frigats arent supposed to be the counter to bs"
"reading comprehension fail much?i never said a frigate should be able to take on a bs, so take your attitude and shove it somewhere uncomfortable. i just said, that i would love for battleships to have to bring along antifrig support. not to win the fight. i never said that. but to make it easier to win the fight. because peewee football is comparable to spaceships in an internet game. right."
"except that already happens its called cycling points. 2 frigates can keep a bs pointed forever, even if it have neuts. frigates main job is to keep point till heavy tackle gets in range. my opinion is my own and i dont need to shove it anywhere. so why shouldnt frigates do the job they are tasked with just fine. the flaw in your argument is that your looking at it from a solo perspective, where eve is not a solo game. another nice counter to neuts is numbers, he cant neut out everyone. so he neuts one frig out well you up your transversal and burn outa range, then laugh cause you instantly have cap and reapproach where hes already neuting someone else.neut cane gets beat by ham web drake. but active cyclone gets ****d by neut cane, which inturn can **** the ham web drake."
"works perfectly fine for my brawler slicers, those are is active tank fits using the most cap intensive weapon available by the way.sure the guns shut off for a few seconds when the neut hits but scram/ab practically never does and repairer just needs a few cycles after approach to fix scratches.drones are dead as fast as they are launched leaving the target living on borrowed time.it is impossible to shake a properly flown ab tackler unless you use:ec-xx drones.multiple neuts, staggered (hate phoons/domis!)smartbombs.friends.while ev-xx drones are also a good idea they have little to no effect against anything else so are never, ever used except for 'lolz'."
"is it because you personally feel that a frig should be able to solo tackle a battleship? i personally feel that bs should have its size advantage recognized and there should be several, not just one, frigates to defeat a battleship."
"bumpstill an important issue"
"supported"
"supported"
"it is extremely annoying."
"after glorious victory to all who supported and upgraded idea of learning skills removal here is another one:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.those who know, know that its best to start fresh.as i meditated on a issue, but actively reading opinions from those which did reply in smart way, like korg leaf, sync vir and with some rude insights from de'veldrin.i decided to propose a little bit more complicated layered solution for current issue.we can observe an issue with two views:point of view of one pirate:low sec is desolated you can roam for hours, and dont find anything to kill. there are many 0.0 gangs which are desperate to escalate any encounter if need arises. riches of low sec space like moons are to be taken by 0.0 people exclusively. point of view of one carebear:low sec is pirate infested territory. enter if you really must, but if you are not sure, just to be safe use cloak, and some stabilizers, logofski if they didn't targeted you. its impossible to mine even in gravi signatures.********************************************************************the bubble!"
"reserved for a really smarty stuff"
"i'm having a hard time seeing what you are attempting to propose here (mostly because i'm having a hard time reading your english).what i got out of it is:~ you want people to be able to record their \"flight path\"? response: i have a hard time understanding how this will come in handy.~ you want drones to not be scannable. response: i can see why you'd want this but aren't drones already a hassle to scan down at the moment? plus, how would you be able to retrieve expensive drones such as fighters (carriers sometimes lose them for one reason or another)?~ rats gain a smarter ai and switch targetsresponse: oooookaaaaay... not a bad idea (we already have this is a certain degree)... but honestly, who are the rats more likey to shoot? the people who just came into the mission or the person who is killing them? plus, it's a fair bet that the pvper(s) will have enough buffer to kill the mission runner before the mission runner and/or the rats kill him.~ you want the system to create automatic bookmarks to a location that a recent death has taken place.response: again, not a bad idea... however there is already a system you can use to do more or less the same thing. check which systems are most \"dangerous\" by browsing your in-game map and checking the statistics... go to a system... and check the \"common\" combat areas (ex. asteroid belts, gates, stations, and planets) on d-scan or personally investigate them yourself.there is also lag to consider as well. before \"warp to zero\" was introduced (there was a time where warping to everything would land you 15km from your intended destination) everyone created bookmarks for almost everything. the lag was horrible. by having the system generating bookmarks for every battle (there are no big battle in low-sec, just numerous skirmishes) that occurs in low-sec you will not be doing the servers any favors.~ you wish for people to be able to warp at any distance of a gateresponse: again, we more or less have this. but being able to warp to a gate at beyond 100km is just a tad silly (pro-trip; grids are generally about 300km x 300km... past that you can't see anything without using your d-scanner). if you want to be able to warp at a certain distance or location beyond the gate you can 'scout' beforehand in an interceptor or stealth bomber and make the necessary bookmarks.again... i'm having a hard time understanding all this (especially in how this will \"change\" low-sec) so a bit of clarification would be nice.edit: btw... drop the yoruichi pic. i like bleach and all, but it kinda brings the \"professionalism\" of your proposal down a bit (i.e. people won't take you \"seriously\")."
"rat ai --- doesnt change a thing, if i'm killing you with rats on you, i'm killing you with rats in me. what needs to be changed is your fittings, it cant be said enough, you can rat perfectly fine in a pvp fit, its the only way you stand a chance no matter what the npc and their loldamage do.probing drones --- again, doesnt change a thing. with the not-so-recent probing changes, people probe ships directly now, if its a probe-proof t3 they probe anomalies. probing drones is pretty much a thing of the past.recent combat bookmarks --- interesting idea, but quite honestly the killers have already looted the wreck, left grid and are back at a safespot lurking for new pray. the only thing you'd generate that way are useless bookmarks that put unnecessary load on the server."
"rat ai is actually one of the most important things they need to do. sure in a belt it doesnt matter too much, but in plexes and missions their dps is not exactly that lol dps. really it is much easier to kill someone when he has 500+ dps on him than when you got it. for example i havent been that active in w-space, but i have done a few class 3 whs in a passive drake. i am not completely maxed on those skills, but i could pretty much exactly tank the harder anomalies. if my tank is at 25% shields, then everything that shoots can pretty much kill me. i have twice been attacked by a tengu, both times the sleepers really liked that shiney tengu and shot it. without sleeper ai they couldnt break my tank, while the first tengu eventually had to bail (in hull, if the lucker would have stayed for one more salvo from my missiles he would have died). the other case the tengu could permatank the npcs, but i just shot the trigger to get another spawn, eventually he also had to bail, which i kinda liked because i already alligned out and gtfo since i kinda disliked that his friend in a raven dropped out of warp.at the same time in normal space i had nighthawks that tanked a plex, decloak pilgrim, neut him, and he is death in a blink. meanwhile i was pretty much completely safe because npcs completely ignored me. i would say a better solution would be giving all ais sleeper ai (with some modifications so drones survive bit better), that will give the pve'er a chance of surviving, right now it is pretty much if tackled = dead, if not tackled = survived, with switching npcs you actually might get a reasonable fight out of it, and i prefer more pvp instead of one sided ganks. for example both those drake vs tengu encounters i knew i was probed. the first one i tried to run when he eventually showed up in his tengu, but was too late. the second one i didnt even try to run, because i expected sleepers to switch target on him i decided i only risked a drake and could get a nice fight out of it, and i did, even though i never had much of a chance of killing them without tackle.so +1 because of ai changes."
"if you gonna cloak your sc by mistake after warping off grid and before fighter bombers get back into drone bay the control over them is unrecoverable lost. in most cases they'll now float anywhere in space, not even on a grid of a celestial.as you can't even probe them due to any strange reason you'll have to get new ones, this sucks hard! there's no way to get them back and i think this can't remain this way.what i want is simple, either enable them to being probed or implement an additional option to re-establish control similar to the system scanner interface for probes.tekedit: changed title from 're-establish fighter bomber control' to 'make fighter bombers probeable!'"
"*thumbs up*"
"would be nice to have that. supported."
"if i remember correctly, you can't assign fighter bombers...which would mean you'd have to warp off-grid then cloak to lose them.not supported. you lose drones that way period, no matter whether you're in a 5mil vexor or a 20bil hulking e-peen. learn to scoop your drones or, for the love of all that is holy, stop ratting in your sc..."
"i don't have a problem with losing them if there's a way to get them back. you can just warp back to whereever u lost ur usual drones and scoop them. but that's not an option for fighter bombers which follow you and which are lost anywhere in space and not at a specific position where u left them in ur vexor for example."
"actually, not true. you don't loose your drones if you warp off grid if they are currently in a 'returning' state. you do under certain situations with fighter bombers.(i'm kinda assuming that) they just mad a dirty hack to make f-bombers non-assignable and that's where we get this quirky behavior (such as f-bombers appearing to be back in their hanger, but still being in space and disappearing from your drone bay if you jump out).also, this issue has very little to due with ratting scs. its an issue you face when jumping supers into systems where you may not have a safe pos-- which in the middle of a war, happens a lot."
"clearly supercarriers aren't powerful enough so they need a boost like this...or not. if you're dumb enough to leave your fighterbombers out when you warp or cloak, then you don't deserve them."
"fighter bombers do follow offgrid so why shouldn't i warp off and use this advantage? but in some cases you have to cloak as fast as possible when you land on your safe and then you're screwed.btw my sc has never seen any npc -.-"
"oh, i thout it was km/h"
"then just bump it it's been in a movie, by the way, in 3rd one, they bumped it hard with a train, with overloaded ab"
"i demand a 1.21 gigawatt capacitor."
"joule. and you already have way better."
"you made a time machine out of a delorean?!"
"forget that, he made one out of a train in the old west."
"thousands of years ago on earth we allowed large corporation to **** the planet. during earths 1920's and 30's we allowed corporations to do anything they wanted to make a buck. by allowing macro mining we are doing the same thing to eve. these large corporations use macro mining to finance thier operations and we do nothing about it. many of these corporation sell isk to on line buyers. plex prices are sky high because these corporations buy hundreds if not thousands of plex to keep thier macro accounts open. what can we do to stop the **** of eve? we need to put pressure on ccp and the council of stellar management to make them change the mining process to put the macros miners out of business. you can help me do this buy writing forum threads and finding old threads about macro use and bring them to front of the forum boards.you may have noticed many more anti-macro threads on the forum than usual. i have been doing that to try and put pressure on ccp and the council of stellar management. but i am only one player and i need your help. for years ccp and the council of stellar management have done nothing about macro users. please help me stop the **** of eve."
"the reason you're seeing a lot of threads about macros is because evenews did an article about them last week.as for what ccp can do about macros and bots? the honest answer is not a whole heck of a lot. the reason for this is simple - a well-written bot has smarter procedures and better reactions than some actual human players i know. this means that any rigorous anti-botting measure is going to catch a lot of these human players as well, and that's bad for business and public relations. until you can program a way to tell the difference, reliably, between the program that's been there for six hours mining ice and the bored industrialist that's been there for six hours mining ice then there's not much that can be done. most of the methods i've seen proposed for doing such would not only not work but would be so intrusive as to anger most of the real players that would have to put up with them.while i would like ccp to look into the problem of botting and macros, i also accept that there's likely not a whole lot they can do about it."
"i am a retired programmer and thier is a way to stop macro ice mining. at the end of a mining cycle a prompt window appears in a random location of the screen. if it is not answered by the next cycle the player loses thier ore. the key to this is a random location on the screen. finding this random location would require a very sophisticated macro and would eliminate a lot of macros."
"rofl!if you really are stupid enough to believe that this would fix it, you are retired for a reason. if you claim things you want to read the eve news article completely atleast. the part about the thin client or python code injection. then you would suddenly notice that it would only stop the really stupid bots.and in the end you would make mining even more annoying for people and give them more incentive to use macros for it."
"ccp must start somewhere to stop macro users. stopping ice mining is a start and is very easy to do."
"we need to get rid of macro users!!!"
"you forgot the type (let's call it 5) that actually hooks into the official client.type 1 is available for free all over the webtype 2 are most mining bots some free, some one-time-fee, some subscription basedtype 3 is not available (afaik) on the open market.a subscription based package of type 5 has caused a lot stir-up recently (all that \"omg the botz - they can do combat missions\")thin clients have the advantage of using much less system resources allowing people to run more bots on the same computer.however, creating a \"real\" thin client is usually pretty hard work because the client-server communications should be encrypted - but the eve server code was available on the web a few years ago (player intruded into ccp servers and stole it with the justification that the eve product quality was too low/too many bugs, code ended up on piratebay) and if nothing too drastic has changed this might give reverse-engineering crews some good pointers.what i can see happening much more likely are pseudo-thin clients which are regular clients with just the graphics output being deactivated, should result in a substantial decrease in resource usage and because you don't have to touch the whole client-server communications problem it should be much easier to implement."
"the code that was released back then was the python behind the ui on the client side.monkeysphere and friends proved quite adequately that it is relatively easy to interfere with the eve client/server communications.it would not surprise me in the least to find that some folks have written their own \"thin client\" equivalent to what ccp are using in testing. i would expect such a thin client is fully scriptable.in the end, the main difference between smart bots and players is that the bots can play 24x7, human players can't."
"this could work, you see. first, you include a sensor in the roadblock to detect incoming helicopters. then you have the roadblock hack into the helicopter's navigation systems and read the helicopter's point of takeoff. then the roadblock sends a message to national defense command which launches dozens of nuclear icbms at the location from the helicopter's nav systems. that will put a stop to those pesky helicopters!...wait, what are we supposed to be talking about?"
"hi! sorry for my english! i just wanted to recommend to you that, instead of just warping within 15 km of the stargate,using the autopilot, warp within 0 meters, so, the travel could be sooo much faster. think everybody is going to like it. thanks!!!ps: maybe not within 0 metres, but... why not within... 500 meters? that would be cool,! :doh yeah! i forgot that you could do the same thing with the stargates as you do with the stations: right click: dock.. so it would be: right click: jump. that would save some time for us! it'd be very comfortable :d"
"it used to be that way, now it is not. cope."
"this has been brought up before. i, personally, like it. mainly because autopilot is useless without it. but you won't get a lot of support for this, because for whatever reason, nobody else seems to like it.the main argument i hear is that it'll make autopiloting through null/lowsec too easy. never mind that autopiloting through low/nullsec is incredibly dangerous even with warp-to-zero autopilot. never mind that the autopilot would basically be doing what players do anyway, only without the intelligence required to shoot back. at first i thought maybe it was because pirates enjoy killing lowsec autopiloters in the current situation, but who the hell uses autopilot these days unless they're a freighter moving through highsec and the pilot has work for the next 5 hours?the second argument i hear is \"making eve less obnoxious will ruin eve\".the third argument is \"okay, we can have warp-to-zero, but <preschool level reverse psychology suggestion> <smiling demon face>\"i don't think i've heard a fourth argument.edit: i forgot \"it used to be even worse so let's never ask for any further improvement\".supported, even though i know nobody else will."
"personally, i think it would make catching haulers easier, since people would be more likely to autopilot their ridiculously slow ships rather than fly them. warping to 500m would be just about perfect."
"warping to 15km and then having to burn from there is the penalty from using autopilot. if it warped you to 0 every time, there would be no reason not to autopilot.look again--this post is now diamonds! anything is possible when you think before you post."
"ccp, shockingly, would prefer you to be sat at your computer actually flying your ship whilst you're logged in.hence giving manual warping an advantage over afk autopilot."
"wow is that way >this is eve you either play the game, or live with not having to be at your computer but take much longer getting to places."
"supported"
"supported. as stated, there can be an initial \"glare\" upon warping to the sun, and then the filters activate and the screen brightness normalizes."
"armor repairers repair at the end of a cycle, while shield repairers repair at the beginning.that is stupid."
"its like shield boosters and armor repairers work.like it or not, its working as it is intended to do so."
"do you know what is even worse?1600mm plates have such a large hp buff compared to large shield extenders. oh and wait... shield regen doesn't balance that out when you're in a raven.go cry more."
"i was thinking about getting one but then decided a t3 ship would be more useful."
"according to the 2009 q3 there were 225 blackops pilots.needs a boost? yeh i think so."
"i'm flying a sin right now, but only until i get enough isk to outfit a t3 cruiser properly"
"i have one for sale, but nobody wants to buy it for a reasonable price.ship is sort of useless.it can be useful under very special circumstances which are very rare."
"bo need realy realy good boost or ccp can remove bo from eve.my ideascovert cyno to high sec and jump range. all"
"i once saw a panther in space but it ran away.locking thread for no content."
"stop macro users!"
"thread locked for spam."
"does anyone know what is process for replacing the counsil of stellar management after they have been elected?"
"they are in office until there term is up. if you would like someone else on the csm you will have to vote them in next election.moved from assembly hall."
"when is the next election, im hoping tom gerard will get in"
"thanks for your response."
"100% agree with the op, old implants need a boost"
"op has no content, locked."
"two suggestions here that could be useful.first up, would be nice to have a page where we can see a list of all bonuses we currently have from implants and skills (and possibly whatever ship we are using). could possibly be added to attributes page under all of the implants.for example: overall missile damage: (amount from implants) + (amount from skills) + (current ship bonuses) = (total).secondly, ammo/weaponry should show our current stats instead of base, or on top of base stats, without having to load them into a ship first. example using my character - hellfire javelin assault missiles. base stats are 4.00s flight time x 3375 m/sec maximum velocity, while my stats are 6.18s x 5821.785 m/sec. currently, i would only know this by loading the missiles into a launcher, and then selecting info. looking at the item in my hangar, in my cargo hold, or on the market, i see the base stats.could either make a new tab under attributes, original tab labeled base stats, new tab your stats. or dual listing, like blueprints list materials - base stats (your stats)."
"actually without dcu's it does non nyx damage. with 5 dcu's it does more damage than a nyx."
"ah, yeah, my math was ****ed up."
"multiple alts spamming forums about macros, oh the irony.edit: btw macro courier mission runners are much more prevalent then miners."
"so i'm just browsing the ah...and i notice that within relatively the same timeframe of about a day there are 5 or 6 posts (note: not proposals) that seem to all be one-liners of a sort about macro-mining and it being the csm's fault.putting alternate accounts and all their characters to use?there are other *established* threads that you can add your support to. creating your own (or worst multiples of it) only degrades the value of your name and vote, both of which actually mean something in eve."
"make station warehouses small when repackaged.in some stations its not possible to build them and they are very useful in organizing hangars.i dont mind bringing in blueprint copies and minerals to build them on demand, but there are stations without building slots, so its not possible to build them everywhere.so i would like to transport them, but because they are so huge(2000000000) they cannot be transported even when repackaged. is there any reason why this is necessary. please change that."
"supporting my idea of reducing size of repackages station warehouses"
"since i start playing eve many years ago i am spending hours and hours in sorting my hangar, which is a painful job.for example i use station warehouses.i name them high, middle, low, guess why ?because then i drop all high slots fitting (like launchers), into the high box, all mid slots (like shield boosters) into the mid box and all low slot fittings (like roled tungsten plates) into the low box.i am doing this every second day and i really spent lots of time for this tedious job...i wish there is an automatic solution for this. something like a rule like i have in my mail client. i write a filter rule: move all items with the attribute \"requires a low power slot\" into the low box. this would rock.would be awsome if i could do this with blueprints and copies. so that i can focus more on playing the game instead of sorting my hangars."
"supporting my idea using filter on hangars."
"i was going to support this idea, assuming i understood it correctly, but the op is a tool... so now i'm john mccain."
"fix blobs by nerfing travel.if it wasn't so easy for people to congregate from literally anywhere in the galaxy at a moment's notice, we wouldn't have such big blobs to begin with.cut back on capital ship jump ranges and jump bridge networks, and lengthen jump clone timers. then sit back and watch 0.0 get interesting again for the first time in literally years."
"except, no. the recent battle in lxq that saw the single largest combat group in a single system at once in the history of eve began once the invading forces had set up forward logistics bases that were only a few jumps from the target system. all nerfing travel does is increase response times for the defenders. a well organized group of attackers can still have a massive fleet set up quite easily."
"it is a sword that cuts both ways, finn. right now, you can deploy a (super)cap blob across the map quickly -- faster than a subcap blob in the absence of jump/titan bridges. nerfing travel for supercaps, and to a lesser extent, caps, turns them from tactical assets into strategic ones. the decision to deploy them to a particular area would then become a committing act -- the caps you just deployed to attack somebody are no longer available to you to defend against an attack back home.personally, i am not in favor of gimping the ability of caps to quickly maneuver within some reasonable range of a home-base, but the idea that moving that home-base ought to take some time is one worthy of serious consideration. if you deploy your aircraft carriers to the straights of hormuz, you do not get to use them to attack north korea an hour later."
"while that's somewhat true about supercap fleets (in my experience they're always deployed strategically, almost nobody just hot drops super-swarms these days), you can still have massive subcap fleets quite easily. defends set up an \"hq\" to defend from, attackers set up a \"beachhead\" to attack from. it doesn't matter if it takes them a little longer to get there, a few ooc highsec freighter run, a few jf/carrier runs, whatever, and you've assembled an invasion force."
"titans > supercarriers > carriers > restthis makes me sad because i trained for dreads, commands and black ops in fact the only two ships i avoided were titans and supercaps, does this mean 0.0 is not for me?"
"does anyone know what is process for replacing the counsil of stellar management after they have been elected?"
"they are in office until there term is up. if you would like someone else on the csm you will have to vote them in next election.moved from assembly hall."
"when is the next election, im hoping tom gerard will get in"
"thanks for your response."
"macro users have been in eve for years. i want to know what your doing to stop it."
"whenever we are absolutely sure that someone is botting, the csm ninja death squad is dispatched to eliminate the offender in as embarrassing and painful a manner as possible; most recipients of a darwin award are, in fact, eve players who use macros.however, since ccp charges the travel costs of the ninja death squad against the csm travel & entertainment budget -- even though they hide in oversized luggage, what with recent increases in airline baggage fees, it's still expensive, which means less trips to iceland for us -- we can't justify deploying them more than a few times a year.therefore, the majority of our effort is focused on making sure ccp understands the concerns of the players, and pushing them to allocate more resources to address the problem. botting and rmt will be discussed at the summit next week.sincerely,trebor daehdoow, csm ninja death squad frequent flyer benefits program coordinator"
"/signed"
"will definitely add to the eve look. ever notice that they pretty much do this with the pos structures that appear in missions?"
"that is a exellent idea, 1 class with hugh fuelbay and bridge range/fule bonus and 1 for pwnage"
"here is a thread i stared in fid... its not just for blasters... its a complete hybrid/gallente rework...."
"supported. hybrids and hybrid ships are underperforming across the spectrum."
"i think people (including csm sometimes) forget that it is not our (the players) job to determine the information or values necessary for a fix. that is what developers, programmers, etc. are for. csm (and this forum) were created to allow players to voice opinions and ideas, not fully invent a patch to save ccp work.that being said, hybrids need a fix. how they need to be balanced goes many different directions, and ultimately needs to be determined by ccp, not players.+1 for having the csm present to ccp the desire to have hybrids reviewed for balancing and (of course) actually balancing them.-1 for csm (or ccp) expecting players to have 'information' as to how to deploy this. that is ccp's job, not ours. we tell you what we think, you either do something about it or say \"no\". an answer would be nice, either way.1-1 = 0, hence no progress on this. csm needs to add to their to-do list asking ccp to review hybrids and bring them into competition with the other weapon systems. there doesn't need to be charts, numbers, values, and such to verify that this issue needs to be presented."
"bump.even if you don't have any additional input or ideas, please support!"
"supported, would also make it easier for the devs to speed missiles up like they intended to do pre-nano nerf. viable cruise missiles perhaps? o_o"
"this. is. genius."
"good"
"dude, you are way too cranky, lag is not linear its best described as exponential (number of actions)^(number of observers) you should really read the dev blogs it was explained a bit.and your failure at understanding makes me very certain that you know even less in what where the problem is. please attempt to be a little educated before making remarkable bad comments like thisplease submit the games you help develop and code on the same scale as eve.__________________________________________________________________________________________i like this idea, as long as there are limits put in place to stop spamming commands. unless that is done the extra time would just give people more time to extend the backlog even more"
"the physics engine can't be slowed down as you get recoils:- missiles will miss although in range, as they overshoot- ships will 'penetrate deeper' and be flung away faster/stronger- orbiting/course changes will be calculated slower so you get out of your 'optimal' more often- ..- if it were that 'easy' ccp would have implemented this ages ago"
"not that many, i hope. :) even when i was still a wee noob, i understood that you cannot target yourself. oh, and just adding a button that says: \"repair self,\" is exactly that: targetting yourself -- be it veiled in other wording. so, no thank you.also, and it has been said before, repping is a gang thingy. especially if you spider tank: you'll both get more back than you put in! and that is how eve works, and is supposed to work: it favors those who cooperate at the expense of the lone wolf -- as any self-respecting multi-player game should do."
"finn. missing the point.for starters, even if you were able to do such, you actually wouldn't gain any benefit; unless you're in a logistics ship, remote rep and cap transfer modules are more expensive than just fitting a module which does what you want natively. or if you still want to be stupid about it and follow your logic:we have modules that damage others.we have modules that heal others.we have modules that web others.we have modules that ecm others.we have modules that heal ourselves.we have drones that damage others.we have drones that heal others.we have drones that web others.we have drones that ecm others....?so if you want to be finnickety (see what i did there) about it, okay, let's implement a \"self heal\" drone. just make sure they're better than than remote rep drones, because after all, remote rep modules are inferior to self rep modules.edit: actually, even this is besides the point. being able to target yourself with your remote reps would be equivalent to drones healing themselves, not drones healing you."
"no, i get the point. folks want a targeted, external, cooperative effect to become a local, self-directed effect via right click menu. and of course you'd get a massive bonus to using something like a large regard cap transfer on yourself. it boosts your capacitor by a massive amount over what you pay to run it. no, you're missing the point. a targeted, external cooperative effect can't just be swapped with a local, self-directed one. and local reps are not superior to remote reps. to begin with, you can only apply a maximum of 8 local reps to one ship. you can apply a potentially massive number of remote reps to a ship (as long as all the projecting ships fit into a sphere whose radius is equal to or less than a logi's maximum transfer range.)and no, it's not equivalent to drones healing themselves. it's equivalent to a targeted, external cooperative effect being directed locally. and there's no reason to stop at just rep drones or even just drones if we're going that way. caught at a gate camp in a slower aligning ship but they don't have fast tackle on you? pop web drones and web yourself into warp. and hey, if you can use targeted external cooperative effects like rep drones and targeted hostile external effects like web drones on yourself, why not be allowed to use your own stasis webifiers on yourself to web yourself into warp and your own cap transfer arrays to free up a mid slot and significantly boost your cap? after all, we can just add those \"apply to self\" right click menu options...there is no good reason that drones should be able to apply their effects to the ship that launches them, except that folks are getting gameplay confused with the fluff. essentially, \"well, they're drones and they're outside my ship, they should be able to do stuff like that.\" if it helps, think of them as magic repair beams that have hp and travel time."
"finn, your drones aren't you. your drones are effectively small weak friendly ships that you control. my modules can't be targeted, my modules don't have to be jammed individually, my mining lasers don't each have their own personal storage capacity, and my modules aren't weak to smart bombs. i can't leave my modules behind in a fight. i can't effectively switch modules mid fight. do i have to go on? that a drone does damage doesn't make it a gun.and as for being able to use drones to recover cap or web; sure, why not? your drones can be killed, and most ships with enormous drone bays kind of depend on their drones to do damage. you could web yourself to warp faster, but you'd end up leaving your drones behind in the process. actually, that's a neat idea; oh crap, i need to warp out of here fast! i'll web myself, sacrifice my drones, and get out of here! but i can only do it once. should i risk it? what if i can get out of this without drones but there's another gatecamp around the corner? do i want to make that sacrifice? that's great gameplay. you should be a designer.the ships in my fleet don't have arbitrary restrictions on who they heal besides not being able to heal themselves with their own reps. why should my drones suffer from arbitrary target lockouts? why am i not a valid target to my drones? it'd open up more gameplay choices without being horribly overpowered."
"i did too. i trained for heavy tech ii armor repairer drones... and consumpted a lot of time... so that's why i've supported this. my tank would be... just amazing."
"correct. they are, targeted, external, cooperative effects. they are not small weak friendly ships, they are a sub class of targeted, external, cooperative effects (or targeted, external, hostile effects)that have travel time and hp, etc... just like missiles. missiles are, also, not small, weak, friendly kamikazis. i didn't say drones were your ship. i didn't say that drones are guns. i said that they are targeted external effects. and they are. you have the exact same non-arbitrary restrictions that your fleet mates have; you have no restrictions on who you can heal with your own rep drones, other than yourself. it's the same exact principle, targeted external cooperative effects."
"they are the smallest controlled entities in the game, they are fragile, they show up as green or purple on the overview, they can be targeted, they have their own shield, their own armor, their own structure, the mining drones have their own cargohold, they have their own sensors, they have their own weaponry.they're ships, finn.if you want to argue for balance, argue for balance, but don't fight on these conceptual grounds, because you can't win."
"one side of a fight having infinite isk breaks the game and the assumption it is rampant (although i believe it actually is) discourages people for investing into eve."
"support"
"which is precisely why we're not hearing from ccp. what they'd like to say (\"we love botters, cuz they make our wallets fat!\") they can't say; and what they should say (\"we're taking care of it!\") isn't true.+1 on the proposal."
"botting is travesty, eve is becoming a travesty. if you think new players will want to play the game overun by bots you are terribly wrong. unfortnately more often than not they are clueless, but that can change quickly if some veterans can be asked to organize enlightment campaigns..."
"support"
"sorry treb, but the two are orthogonal, you don't have to bot to rmt, nor is someone who bots forced to rmt. sure, often they work hand in hand, but the reasons and implications are distinct.except for the account hacking i don't give a damn about rmt. however, i am strongly annoyed by botting because a) it screws with the market and b) with near unlimited supply of isk there is no risk anymore, which makes winning and losing in eve meaningless, nullifying one of its key strong points."
"supported!"
"after reading article eve become looking like a game for group of people that makes real money, and other players are only the way to make money. it must be stopped! support"
"+"
"support"
"support"
"support this."
"some people bot but don't rmt, some people rmt but don't bot, but a lot of people who bot rmt (and vice versa). or to put it another way, those who bot are more likely to rmt, and those who rmt are more likely to bot.crippling botting would reduce rmt, and crippling rmt would reduce botting. they are significantly correlated, and thus not orthogonal variables.from a technical standpoint, bot detection and countermeasures are likely to be the most cost-effective way of going after the whole issue; it's a well-understood problem akin to spam-filtering.with respect to rmt, since it is basically an exercise in money-laundering, i have suggested to ccp (and will continue to suggest) that they consider engaging an academic forensic accountant to work with dr. eyj<U+FFFD> -- studying the criminal masterminds of eve may not only help fight crime in the game but provide insights that are useful in the real world."
"the problem is, ccp have always targeting rmt only, i am not sure how effective but they have and will focus on rmt only, so focusing more on rmt doesnt make any sense when the botting is the reason they are making isk.if a person is spamming forums (example) all the time, you dont take away his / her post you do something about the poster, same applies to botting & rmt, why delete the rmt when the botter is there to continue :poh and i bet theres more botters than rmt out there, focus on the big picture, killing bots -> kills rmt, not the otherway around because killing rmt -> bots get freedom againa rmt can easily after a 'temp' ban or ban, buy an account, log on bot and sell isk over and over, if you focus on the botting and punish botters players will have little chance of being able to rmtas for an overpaid forensic accountant, i say eve needs more gms to fix broken game mechanics, besides this isnt rl, gms have access to all the info and know where the isk comes from anyway."
"correlation does not imply non-orthogonality.yes, but handling it with spam-like filters requires the building of behavior data for each player over time first so you can run your statistics on it. because of the extra server and db load i don't think this will happen. unless you find a really small/readily available set of variables which strongly correlate with someone using bots and which could be stored with little overhead.probably they'll go ahead with aggregating data from different detection methods which alone wouldn't be very effective, but at least easy to implement, and that combined yield a decent result.and btw, we have a \"report isk seller\" button, why don't we have a \"report bot user\"?"
"support.it'd be great to hear smt about botting from dev. side"
"because rmt'ing takes money away from ccp's gtc and plex programs while botting gives money to ccp."
"support."
"+"
"support this"
"this is precisely the wrong approach. this is essentially symptomatic treatment.reduce the incentive to bot (make pve fun). reduce the value of botting (make pve require intelligence).both of those will also reduce the incentive to buy isk: if pve is fun, people wont need to buy as much isk, because they'll be having fun making it. and when bot isk is harder to make, thus scarcer, people wont feel \"forced\" to buy isk just to compete.the problem requires both a holistic approach, and a recognition that there are many ways of generating isk for rmt that dont require botting, and many people who bot for reasons other than rmting. maybe the two issues aren't perfectly orthogonal, but they're no where near perfectly parallel either.and as a side benefit, adding challenging, unpredictable, involving pve will in and of itself have a business benefit, since more people will play eve for that. even if it does nothing to stop botting, it's justified on its own merits."
"yes."
"so botting ingame making isk to fund a whole variety of different accounts isnt taking money away from ccp? i doubt it! that isk made botting unfairly is used to buy plex's to carry on accounts, as apposed to actually paying for accounts with money that should be going to ccp.im not in any way say plex's r bad... just when bought with isk made unfairly and breaking ccp's eula!"
"yes, i'd like to see another dev post on this."
"making pve more fun would reduce the demand for rmt'd isk, but it wouldn't deter bots running 23/7. making it harder to bot would decrease rmt isk availability, increasing its rl price, increasing motivation to rmt.theres multiple feedback loops in the system and theres multiple variables we don't know about (how much isk was rmt'd? how much rl money was paid for it? how many bots are there? how many of the plex sold went to bot accounts?), so predicting the interaction of isk<>rl (both legit and rmt) conversion rate, the supply and demand for plex, the number of bots, their general impact on eves economy and many other things becomes nears impossible. even ccp can only guestimate."
"it is childlishly naive to think that in the present day there is any mmo without bots, without rmt, without hacks. still, it would be nice to see ccp's perspective and an overview of actions they have taken."
"that's okay, you're allowed to be wrong. botting for isk and buying gtc's or plexes with botted isk takes not one single cent out of ccp's pocket, because every single gtc or plex comes from real money that's been given to ccp. someone still has to pay for those accounts with real money that goes directly to ccp. that people then give those primary-buyers isk, or lollypops or oral sex in exchange for those real-money-bought-plex doesn't matter. ccp gets paid."
"not being able to perfectly solve the problem isn't a reason not to try and mitigate it. especially when the proposed partial solution is to essentially improve the game for human players.if making eve's pve fun and unpredictable merely means that somewhat fewer people want to buy isk and that its also going to be somewhat more expensive, then i'm not seeing a downside here.i'm all in favour of improved and increased gm activity, more sophisticated auditing tools, etc. and i'm all in favour of harsher punishment for botting and for selling and buying isk (simply removing the bought isk isn't enough imo). but the fact is that gm interventions are employed after the fact: by the time they get involved, the damage has already been done. as well as focusing on the supply, ccp also need to reduce demand or, as you point out, the demand for a reduced supply causes prices to rise, stimulating more supply. ccp made a brilliant move with the gtc/plex system, since it provided an alternative to rmt. time to follow that up with improving the game in ways that further reduce both demand and supply as well as more and better gm activity."
"i'm really disappointed."
"supported"
"support"
"bumpin dis."
"i really like this idea...and maybe it could be used in gallente drone ships too...basically gallente drone boats (myrm, domi, ishtar) would also have the ability to self repair drones in its bay... (at a slower rate then in carriers ofcoarse)"
"1.0"
"sure. also, a pony."
"give us what we want ccp +1this small change would be much better than the years you took to make planet simcity."
"ok - my first post here, so be gentle :)i had a bit of a brainwave last week regarding remapping and the current limit. i agree that allowing players to buy with plex is totally unbalanced, as is the ability to buy from the store, so here's my 2isk:what's the one thing all players new or old, skilled or newbies are limited to?real world time.by adding a \"remap skill\" you train with a multiplier loaded enough that to do so is not a decision taken lightly, you add the ability for players to have a significant career change without having to wait many many months to make it viable. the multiplier should be enough to be an attractive option, whilst being neither too long that it feels like it's a timesink, nor too short that players end up remapping every other month.it would be preferable to keep the current 12 month freebie if possible, or a similar mechanic so players who don't train the skill still feel like they have that option, but on the condition that there has been no other remap in the last 12 months.i don't know if this is possible within your current training mechanics, as i have limited coding knowledge, but i think the principle is sound.i'd be interested in feedback, and please try to keep the flaming to a minimum."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"give us unique id's (32bit should suffice) + a proper history record publicly visible and let us take names as we please.differentiating by unique names is so backwards.. i don't know.. look at how stars or galaxies have been named after they run out of unique names. it's not practical."
"yes, eve sound is not the best, but with our help we can make it better!starting with having that beautiful and satisfying squish when you send someone to visit their cloning facilities!"
"i support this thread. actually i do believe that in one of the short stories ccp gave the reason for their being sound; that capsuleers brains found it easier to accept the information if the ships systems simulated sounds."
"make em go snap crackle and p... errr... squish?"
"i want the squish back!"
"i agree with the selection of topics, most import issues are in there.some random comments:- you are discussing 0.0, what about low sec?- the discussion about incarna should be held also in the context of this post by teadaze (and the following comments).- i'd like the see an explicit distinction between rmt and botting in the discussion.- issues with incursion like targeted player fleet sizes."
"supported."
"this isn't a petition to make wh space easier - i just want more variety in the ship types that can be used, in wh space, and in other areas of the game."
"reduce fitting requirements for active tanks to the same level as passive ones increase active tank effectiveness overallreduce armor repairer circle time to make it scale better ( reduce amount in relation of curse )reduce module lag to make active tanks more useful overall oh and maybe fix the fact that you need 3 slots for a pvp active armor tank and only 2 for a shield one (shield: cap booster+shield booster armor: 2xrepairer+cap booster)okay most armor tankers have more lows slots than shield tankers have midsone armor rep has less fitting requirements than one shield booster but still i feel like that is a bit wrong there"
"to be fair its relatively balanced 2xreps = boost+amp, so the number of slots required is actually very near equal.the big difference is shields ability to provide its repair \"on demand\", which is much more handy than the clairvoyant armour mechanic \"where am i in 12 seconds\"."
"thank you sir drake and i am sorry for the long post before without spacing it out a bit. i just got word that ccp is having a meeting on this issue this month, so it is a big issue that finally they are looking into and will hopefully solve this issue vs another quick fix. thank you ccp for finally doing something about this issue, even if it is only a meeting on what to do about it for now."
"qfft. first mining proposal i have seen that is not only not stupid, but awesome!"
"holy **** that just made me jiggle in excitement hearing about the probably most awesome thing you could do to mining and the fact that ccp removed it typical cpp >,,<leave asteroid belts as they are but make em like 10000km x10000km x10000km large give single asteroids 100x more ore and then spread those roids over that area and let people find them using the directional scanner and no those roids should not be able to get probed!i think that would totally fix the people with macroers as i'm pretty sure that its almost impossible to program a macro to use d-scanand on top of that it would make mining awesome and would give the variations of roids a lot more meaning"
"wow.. just wow.. i want to play that game.post supported."
"ephemeron that's not really what i was talking about...anyway, no one else have an opinion on this ?btw i support my own idea xd"
"how would the mass thing work, cap ships move by cyno so either no cynos could be made in the system or people wouldnt need to build the cap ship.i dont think will work, why would you want this system, unless you cap ships to cyno them out to a normal system."
"thanks for the support! i don't think that this will be giving anyone an unfair advantage since all players will be able to use this."
"i know your proposal was meant to be more of a blanket statement, but you have inspired me to expand on this topic a bit. first of all, i am going to use the term \"prestige\" a bit, if you want to know what i am talking about look here.first is contracts. when i started playing eve, one of the first things i checked out were the contracts (a system, as you point out). i thought they were \"verb number noun\" missions from players, to other players. despite the fact that it was ultimately disappointing, i still believe that ccp has gold right under their noses with the contracts. making kill contracts (transferrable kill rights?), and mercenary contracts, would only be the beginning. what about a mining contract? an industrial corporation needs \"x\" amount of megacyte, and they are willing to pay average market value for it. i know your thinking, \"wtf is he thinking!?!? i want to sell it for more than average regional price!!\".hence the second part of this idea; a prestige system. if you read up on that link above, you know what i am going on about. if not, here is the short and sweet;any action done by you for another player (contracts), will result in a gain of prestige (loyalty points?). this could be used a few different ways. for one, prestige could be used like currency, gained by fulfilling contracts, and spent possibly making them. there could be other things to spend them on, but i am not very imaginative right now. another way, would be to make the prestige points a number that reflects the reliability, and efficiency of the player. so the mining contract i already mentioned would be fulfilled, and the miner would gain prestige for it. now anyone else making a mining contract would be more likely to give it to that player, because they know he would deliver. and with enough prestige, he could probably name his own prices in the future.another idea i had, is about the professions. in eve a profession isnt who you are (as it is in other mmo's, i.e. \"i am a mage\"), but rather what you do. one of my alts is a dedicated explorer. i always liked the hacking aspect. this system could be expanded, making it possible to use hacking modules for a variety of purposes (as opposed to breaking open radar dishes in space). imagine a system where you could break into gsc's, or manipulate records (deleting someones employment history?). the possibilities are not limited to anything but imagination.i wrote a proposal about bounty hunting, that was along these lines. a system where your profession is something you have to be good at in order to advance in it. and while no one bit on that one, i still think the best way to go with overhauls to professions in eve is to gate them. making you perform the duties related with that profession for lesser rewards, in order to gain access to bigger rewards.i talk too much, so i will just leave it at that."
"there is no part of either of these posts that i don't like. i would definitely pay someone to erase part of my employment history, uplink-style."
"procedural content?.. hell yes!"
"i agree with this statement. even blizzard has problems keeping players with theme park content happy. luckily this sort of content is not what eve is mainly built on...seeing that you haven't mentioned \"sandbox\" once in your wall of text indicates that you are not familiar with one of eves core game design philosophy. while eve has and gains static (theme park) content, it's about providing players with a environment and set of tools where they can create their own gameplay. in this context ccps job is to expand the capabilities of the tools, remove barriers for emergent (player group) behavior and correct imbalances.the sandbox design philosophy is what sets eve apart from the vast majority of other mmos and what i personally find to be much more interesting.after a weird definition of what you mean by \"system\" and \"content\" you end up proposing more theme park content. just randomized. sure, randomize missions, make them less predictable. but like any other addition of content that \"people play through\", it's a step away from the sandbox concept and therefor something i wouldn't support. there is more than enough \"content\" while the sandbox could use some improvement."
"very support.eve needs more, more varied and more interesting content and this is a good proposal for it."
"a possible alternate to the scan res suggestion is a normalization of scan res across the board. all ships have 500 base scan res for example."
"higher scan res is one of the things that gives smaller ships a role (tackle).so no."
"cheers to both the pilots above me, they get it. my ab fit jaguar is as scared of a bs as it is of a titan. they might hit me once or twice but it will scratch the paint having a sig thats soo tiny cruisers having trouble tracking is win and with a small nos and an ab i laugh at neuts cept if its dual neut then i play careful"
"some ships, though, like the tengu (and other t3, like legion) suffer disproportionally from neuts. and this because they are, at heart, still cruisers. and because they're built around the idea of favoring shield boosters (for the tengu, that is). roughly spoken, a t3 can match a bs; but when the cap goes, suddenly t3 becomes real weak. yes, you can always carry cap boosters, of course; but that does take up a valuable mid-slot, and the need for it does underline its extra vulnerability to neuts.were it me, i'd outlaw neuts altogether. :)"
"what darius said."
"its a fair point but it is not just t3's that are plagued by this its cyclones sleipneirs abso's. basically any ship that is fitting a heavy local tank. but rightly so as the counter to that tank is neuts, and the counter to the neuts is either nos's or cap boosters. i tackled a tengu in my phoon the other day he had me bleeding in low armor when i finally broke his shields and i had 2 heavy neuts on him and he was still repping anyway needless to say the only reason i lived was i think i capped him out and he disengaged for fear that my lil bit of armor and structure was more than what he had left.i fly cyclones regularily xlarge booster and large booster fits. both are alot of fun but both are incredibly vulnerable to neut boats as they have a high rep but low buffer, and if the rep's stop you die. neuts are what they are supposed to be the other thing you gotta remember about neuts is they also use alot of cap and you can easily neut out a neut boat. also if you use a faction point you can engage outside of neut range as most bs dont fit officer neuts."
"never said anything about solo either.and it wasn't your oppinion you needed to shove, but your attitude.try reading my posts, you tard."
"fail power outage if fail"
"u mad bro? cept you have to be talking about solo because a bs will have alot of trouble with 2 frigates, as they can cycle points are hard to hit and take a long time to lock. neuts change nothing about that, unless a ship has multiple neuts. if thats the case you need neuts +1 frigates. i mean yes if its on a gate it will beable to burn back to the gate, but thats a problem even small fleets have after the web change in 08. my attitude is one of protecting eve from the nerf bat, i can gladly step aside if a worthy argument to why neuts are op arises, but at this point its i cant solo tackle a bs with a neut in my frigate, so neuts are op. or my active tanking cant tank cap stable when neuted, therefore i cant tank cause i dont wanna fit cap boosters, neuts are op.if you fit lots of neuts and the enemy you tackle is passive with missles they are gonna laugh at you as they **** you. not to mention you can out run then cause running a heavy neut and an mwd will cap any bs out fast, and with 2 heavy neuts....i understand its frustrating when you tackle something and your fleet is on its way to you and it neuts you and gets away, but it is a valid defensive tactic. so heres a question for ya 1v1 how does someone beat an active tank if they cant out dps the rep,without using neuts? as far as i can see they wouldnt beable to as his tank will be either cap stable with or without boosters and you'll be dead before he runs outa boosters. or someones friends will get there first. heres another how do you stop a sabre from bubbling your super caps without neuts if they have a support fleet fighting your support. you will have trouble, but with a neut he cant mwd anymore then hes lightdrone/sentry food. how do you break a super caps tank with sub caps without neuts. you dont their rr chain will kick your ass and they will jump away, but if you neut em that wont happen. neuts are working as per intended, and they do exactly what their description says in an unbiased manner they vent power from he targets capacitors. but because theres far less cap in a frigate the effects are much quicker.now the idea of changing the neut to drain a percent of your capacitor per cycle would be interest except a few fatal flaws.1) you'd never hit 02) it would be a huge boost to frigates and a huge nerf to capitals3) it would be beneficial to be in low capacitor against neuting ships as between cycles you could fire a booster and put yourself back low and the neut would have relatively low effect."
"yeah. imad! now that i'm done with the obligatory \"herp derp\" lemme reiterate my thoughts in a more constructive way.in my humble oppinion i do not think that the neuts themselves are overpowered. i think the problem is, that too many bs have spare highs for neuts. if you removed some of the utility highs, as i first suggested, people would have to make a choice between countering frigs and dealing full dps. that seems like a good compromise.i do agree, and actually implied as much, that the state of neuting as such is maybe a bit op, but the problem is not with the neuts as much as the abundance of utility highs on bs.consider this. if all bs had as many highs as turret/launcher slots, how many neuts would you see?and to the second green point. no man, i actually do like you, you seem constructive and wellreasoned, but i had to herp derp a bit as you completely missed my point.with all due respect.shiho weitong"
"well that was very well said and i agree the flip side being give more frigs and sub bs utility highs or mids to counter neuts. but i know what your saying, and can partially agree with the argument the reason i say partially is removing utility highs on ships like the domi/ scorp/phoon/ really make the ship worthless as their only big selling feature is the utility highs, to go along with their primary roll. which is support bs. the biggest draw back to neuts tho is their requirements, they need sooo much for fitting, and capacitor.believe you me i had a ****y moment yesterday i nearly died to 3 dramiels and a daredevil tackled my cane and only one would get in range of my medium neuts to scram me the rest would orbit out at 20. luckily i hit the gate jumped landed far from their tackle and warped away. but there was nothing neuts could do to save me or anythign for that matter."
"more utilities on some frigs would make good sense, i agree.and yeah, let the supporting cast bs keep a single/some utility highs, depending on the ship. blanket changes are almost never good.what makes me die a little inside is bs with tank/gank and a proverbial pletora of utility highs."
"maybe make it an option in the options menu, but this would be very nice"
"hell yes."
"supported!bloody annoying \"feature\" that has to go asap."
"this would be a really nice fix to have, quick and easy me thinks.+1however, i would argue that maybe instead of double-clicking to approach (as has been for a long time) perhaps having the approach function changed to be mounted to a shortcut key + click. example:to stop: ctrl + space (exists right now)to go: \"key\" + click (mapped by user)as i understand there is no mapping for \"approach\" like there are so many other commands in eve? i think adding the ability to map it (and thus removing double-click altogether) would be the easiest solution. while i know most people don't like ui movements (yay the right-click menu changed, boo i keep hitting the wrong buttons from habit!) i personally would like double-click to be the targeting command and have approach moved to a mapped command like all other navigational commands.as with all things...the option to choose is best! definitely add the ability to map approach and maybe even mouse functions, like many other games. alongside the usual keyboard combinations, list left-click, mouse button 3...etc...enabling players with advanced mouses more versatility in the game. obviously r-click would never be mappable due to its all-important role as the menu key for the game."
"@ while i completely agree with you, that my knowledge of english is basic, i believe that my words are understandable.about ai of rats, furb killer presented perfect example of why there should be change...because of balance.about bookmarks, they would h"
"what the hell is this?no.to be clear, this idea is terrible, your roaming the wrong lowsec if your taking hours to find fights, and these ideas all make lowsec worse."
"if fbs are unprobeable, they should be made probeable. any other change is not needed."
"not needed. do increase the signature of fb weapons by 100% though."
"i know you can find lost fighters with combat probesif f-bombers can not be found that way then that should change so you can find lost fb as well"
"all drones can be probed with combat scanner probes. if fighter bombers cannot be probed then it is a bug and you should file a bug report."
"fighters are probable, bombers not ? that of course sucks and imho this should be a bug which has to be fixed fast."
"if i remember correctly, there is a feature being developed right now (might even be deployed during incursion patches?) that allows the recalling of drones. this mostly came about for people dc'ing or accidentally warping off without their drones.as fb's and fighters are drones...this feature will likely affect them as well."
"if you have counterpoints, please refer to this chart before posting.edit: simplified for people with short attention spans.1: salvaging a wreck flags you to the guy who killed the rat.2: create a new probe, battlefield scanner probe, that can be used in the standard probe launcher.3: upon completing a mission and leaving wrecks there, all the wrecks become abandoned, the rats disappear (maybe), and the site can be scanned out using the above probe.4: upon leaving a system where you have wrecks/cans that aren't in a mission site, those wrecks become abandoned.5: tractor beams are usable on cans/wrecks that aren't yours (although it still flags you with looting just as salvaging does).justifications: firstly, salvage is not garbage, it's often worth more than the bounty and module drops combined. secondly, salvaging is not an esoteric skill, nor is the equipment expensive. thirdly, a ninja salvager profits off of the labor of others. fourthly, the above changes would help everybody except one party: those who enjoy harvesting tears of others at no risk to themselves. the spirit of eve is \"harsh consequences\", not \"harsh consequences unless you like being a douche\". you want to harvest tears? go bait mission runners in a ship built to kill them like the real men do. if you just want to harvest tears at no risk to yourself, you're a bigger carebear than they are.reasoning behind the changes: the flag is there because of everything stated in the above paragraph. the abandoned wrecks and battlegrounds are designed on the grounds that salvaging is a valid profession, and simply giving wrecks ownership would destroy that. the new probe being fittable on a basic launcher is designed so that a salvager can have a ship designed for both probing and salvaging, to make that profession even easier. the tractor beam modification is there mainly to satisfy the players who insist they're hardcore and want to make carebears cry."
"get this right. eve is a pvp game. even if you're in high sec, you're going to be fighting other people for the natural resources. salvage is not yours until it's in your cargo. this is why if you think it's so important to yourself, you should either salvage or fire on the ninja salvager. ps: you can always shoot the salvager. concord does not stop you from firing on them. just make sure you're willing to lose your ship and that the first salvo gets them."
"yes.and neither is loot. we're in agreement so far.absolutely! i'm glad you got the gist of my proposal.actually, yeah, they do. if i start shooting a ninja salvager, concord will in fact do everything in its power to stop me from firing on them any further. they'll even go so far to destroy my ship. about the only thing that concord doesn't do to stop me from firing upon them is a pre-emptive strike."
"nope. concord does not lock your weapons from firing on people in high sec. they provide punishment for breaking their rules. concord will never stop you from firing on a ninja salvager. the consequences may not be the best, but you are free to fire on them.ps: salvage is worthless to the server code since it's generated when the wreck is salvaged. loot has value because it's the modules dropped by the npc. salvage does not."
"not for the first shot, no. after the first shot, they don't bother; they just destroy your ship.you're honestly telling me that this is a programming issue? you can do better than that.look, here's what it comes down to.a missioner trains skills for a month, grinds his standings with a corp, buys a multi-million isk ship, goes out, risks his ship killing rats, then has to go fetch a salvaging ship if he wants to obtain the full rewards of his labors.a ninja salvager trains for a week, buys a 400k isk ship, scans out a mission runner and then eats the half the rewards that the mission runner worked on producing, with concord sending its instakill deathsquad to cover his ass if the mission runner so much as bats an eye at him.and you're telling the missioner to harden the **** up?"
"that's the thing with hiding in high sec--u can hide behind concord but so can they. risk vs reward. they only seem to have it easier because they're enforcing a consequence of u hiding in high sec. u got your safety and as such, so do they. if u really want the freedom of a pre-emptive strike that badly, go mission in low sec."
"i think wrecks should get ffa after halve their decay time anyway and your battlefield scanner probes should be able to scan for abandoned wrecks only not for 'leftover missions' as for that their would be a need for a new mechanic"
"proposal for ninja salvaging.make a ninja salvaging agent included in the career selection for new players./thread"
"ninja salvaging does not promote pvp because the salvager hides behind the firepower of concord; it hinders pvp just like neutral rr and station games."
"nope. he can just put a salvager on his ship. most mission running ships have an extra spare slot. the training for salvaging will only cost you 24-48 hours according to your original post."
"where's the \"risk\" side for the ninja salvager? i'm not asking for concord to come and kill him, i'm asking for concord not to babysit him when he starts profiting directly off of my labors and i decide to retaliate. they don't allow it with can miners, and there's even less reason to support them; they're willingly dumping their profits in space. why is the ninja salvager getting protection? i thought eve was supposed to be a cold harsh universe, consequences and all that *******s?hey, look, preschool grade reverse psychology! you forgot the demon face, though.technically true, completely irrelevant.has anybody here got anything negative to say about the actual proposal? has anybody who disagrees actually read it thoroughly? or am i just going to get a bunch of people saying \"no\" without justification? because so far i've yet to see any sign that anybody has actually read my post. maybe i should have simplified it."
"yeah, pretty much. you know, the last time i read one of these, i made myself a little promise, which i will now fulfill:i support this proposal. go ahead, make ninja salvaging flaggable. just don't come back here a month later whining about the consequences. you know, like the miners did, years and years after can \"theft\" was made flaggable."
"i support malc.furthermore, if the change is made, make it a bannable offense to cry on the forums, when this backfires massively and people start losing fuc*tons of mission ships, due to drone agression and other forms of stupidity."
"you're going to get a lot of people saying \"no\" for exactly the same reasons that they said \"no\" to the dozens of proposals that are functionally identical to yours in that they rest on the utterly unfounded and incorrect assumption that the salvage belongs to the mission runner in the first place. even though ccp said explicitly and repeatedly and in these words: that salvage was not intended to be part of the mission runners rewards, it was intended to be the basis of its own mini profession.you're going to get some supports from people like me who are sick and tired of making the same replies to the same oh-so-ironically-self-aware-so-that-makes-it-not-really-whining posts and who wish upon you exactly the results that you deserve ie: that ninja salvaging will stop being mostly about annoying missions runners and instead become purely about killing them.i wish you the very best of luck with your campaign. i have a covops alt ready to train salvaging 5 if you win.best of luck and all that."
"now, see, i originally held that belief too until recently. you know what changed? the noctis. a salvaging ship that is only of use to mission runners. some people in ccp may have stated in the past that salvage wasn't intended to be part of the mission runners rewards, but if that's the case, why the hell does the noctis have a bunch of tractor beam bonuses instead of probing and salvager range bonuses? as i said in my original unedited post, i'm not buying it.and i hope to see you out there (or not, as the case may be, ho ho ho). but i still resent my argument being rejected on the grounds that you've rejected other similar arguments in the past. i don't make a proposal unless i've thought about it in depth. that's why i picked apart the counterpoints pre-emptively and engineered a situation which supports the design philosophies that ccp have both spoken of and shown support for."
"that's the thing--the wrecks r not yours to begin with, despite your wrong assumption. if it was, ccp would've flagged the ninja salvager for salvaging a long time ago but they didn't. u can complain some more about someone else being protected by concord to enforce risk while u're also hiding behind concord--just don't expect ccp to take u seriously."
"not supported.this proposal is terrible.ninja salvaging does not need a buff, and flagging them does nothing for mission runners as the salvagers don't actually want the salvage but the mission items and or the corpse of the poor sap that shot them.also lol drone aggro, guys flying ships that can be confused for rats, etc.this solves nothing for anyone.not supported times a gagigigigllion, its that bad."
"if you think they do then you probably don't hit motsu and other mission hubs much :pninjas are usually ninjaining to antagonize you and get you to shoot. and most of the time they will red themselves on purpose. the last thing the game needs is to boost this pest by both making it possible for them to tractor your wrecks, and easier to find you with wreck probes.next you'll say that can flippers actually want the minerals ;/by the way, flagging them wouldn't even balance out wrecks you don't own being tractorable as a maxed noctis has tractor range of about 60 km's and tractor speed of about 1500 m/s. a nano noctis w mwd (or even ab) or a couple could just run away with all the wrecks and be way out of range for anything you could conceivably do."
"hmmm, taking your argument at face value, one could simply say that it allows the mr to engage in the secondary profession of salvaging. they're therefore already competing at a significant advantage to 3rd party salvagers, and consequently dont need any additional boost. one might also note that mrs can (and do) abandon their wreck ownership now. one might also note that hi-sec missions aren't the only place where wrecks are produced in quantity. the noctis is also an incredible boon to 0.0 corps who make their isk from anomalies in upgraded systems.attempting to negate a very clear and explicit official statement about salvage ownership (there's no \"may\" about it) with a rather weak interpretation of the implications of one new ship - as seen purely from your own limited perspective - is not at all persuasive to me. you might as well say that since the government permits car manufacturers to make cars hat can go much faster, driving over the speed limit isn't really illegal."
"sorry, i should have explained myself better. actually, yeah, i do frequent motsu. 9.5 with the navy, and i've actually lost a drake to the kind you suggest. although the bs rats did more damage than the guy pelting me. that was a little embarrassing.. but i digress.i realize personal experience is not an argument, but most of the time, they really are just rookie pilots after the salvage. of course, i fly a drake and not a raven, so maybe i'm not considered a valid target for baiting.mainly, it's besides the point; the people who aim to make you shoot them are going to just loot the cans anyway. that salvaging would also cause agro is essentially irrelevant. i'm more interested in the ones who do it exclusively because it's a 0 risk way of obtaining large profits. that doesn't sit well with me.the idea is not that i want to kill all the people who salvage my wrecks, but rather that i don't like people feeding off of my labors at 0 risk to themselves. even if i never choose to launch a volley at the guy salvaging my wrecks, it should still be a valid option, and the people who choose to loot a mission in progress should have to take that risk.also, drones being stupid is an issue of its own. and again, if people want agro, they'll just get agro. although the tractor beam mod i suggested does make this easier, but that was mainly just there to satisfy the people who would accuse me of being a carebear (whilst obtaining zero risk profits from another player's labor)."
"not sure if you saw my edit:by the way, flagging them wouldn't even balance out wrecks you don't own being tractorable as a maxed noctis has tractor range of about 60 km's and tractor speed of about 1500 m/s. a nano noctis w mwd (or even ab) or a couple could just run away with all the wrecks and be way out of range for anything you could conceivably do.it would still be risk free for the people that want the salvage and have a noctis. this would boost all manner of undesirables a lot, while doing nothing to aid in curbing them.so, if they want the salvage? much easier to get it. if they want to blow you up? also much easier to get it. whats there to like?"
"that's why i'm supporting his proposal."
"the point is that it begs a question; if salvage is not meant to be a reward for the mission runner, then why create a ship which caters to that very mindset? no matter how you look at it, that's a pretty blatant contradiction.also, although this is a rather weak argument, that statement is still open to interpretation. that a mission's loot \"is not intended to be part of the mission runners rewards\" could just mean that he mission runner would have to go the extra mile if he wants those spoils, which he does even if wrecks are flagged his; he still has to train the skills and fit the tools and go out of his way to collect the salvage.actually, that raises a point; assuming that it's actually possible why aren't automobile engines locked at a certain speed? selling a car that can do 150 in a country where the highest legal speed is 120 seems a bit off unless you're manufacturing cars designed for racing. crap, now i'm going to be thinking of that all day. thanks, malcanis."
"sorry, i think i posted before you edited. or at least quoted before you did.hmm. thinking further, it might indeed be a bad idea, mainly because all it allows is ****ishness, and that's exclusively all it allows. i included it there mainly to appease the \"hardcore\", but also because it's a \"spirit of eve\" sort of thing; i can hear the arguments against it bouncing around in my head. \"why can't i tractor your wrecks? flag me, i'm not afraid. eve is hardcore, htfu carebear.\"i'll scratch that last one from the proposal.. in retrospect, it's not even really necessary. the salvage flag doesn't really hurt the baiters anyway; i'm mainly concerned about the honest salvagers and the mission runners living in harmony. as it stands, chewing on somebody else's labor really is the only viable way to make money as a salvager. that shouldn't be the case."
"the answer is, of course, as follows:(1) cars can be legally used in places where speed limits don't apply, ie: not on public roads.(2) there are easily conceivable circumstances where the lesser offence of breaking the speed limit would be outweighed by the greater need to avoid suffering or inflicting damage to others.(3) car owners vote."
"salvage isn't yours until it's in your cargo. therefore, if i salvage a wreck, it is my wreck. the only way i would steal salvage from you would be if you salvaged it, then jettisoned it, then i stole it.because it's not. read the noctis/primae description and you will see that it was built to salvage 0.0 areas in ore territory where fleet battles would happen. maybe you should add that the noctis should be moved to null sec. noone in high sec."
"i already explicitly answered that: mission running is not the only activity that generates wrecks in quantity that a noctis could tractor. perhaps you haven't been in sov 0.0 lately, but running anomalies generates a fantastic number of npc kills, the majority of which are battleships. this is also often done in systems which \"belong\" to a single corp. furthermore, the wrecks were often ignored in favour of just killing more rats. now there is an ideal tool for harvesting them.that's what i meant by saying that you're looking at the noctis from a limited perspective.i notice you accidentally forgot to reply to my point that if the noctis gives an additional advantage to mission runners in competing for the salvage which they don't own, then there's no argument for giving them any additional advantage by allowing them to choose whether to engage or not. that's what being a salvager means. that's what they do. you might as well say \"as it stands, killing people and robbing them of their loot is the only viable way of being a pirate\"."
"cool train a spaceship out of delorean? big surprize"
"but if we stop ice mining where will people get their pos fuels from?"
"id rather stop the isk sellers."
"everything that has been done in the game that involves stable prices becomes trivial later on because of inflation. take wardecs for instance.i also think the folly in making wealthy corporations be able to blow up anyone they want with no repercusion at any time in high sec.. kind of gets rid of the high sec aspect of it, and has very little to do with bounties or hunting.i think what eve needs is a predictable system that can actually be collected on and is free from abuse from the would be bountee. something like.. the op."
"good idea!"
"i recently started ice mining with my industry char. the level of macro-ing is incredible.the only thing i can think of is if the hi sec ice fields move a few hundred km's a day to render the macro bookmarks useless. you could always redo your bm's, but that takes a bit of effort and over time all the macro'ers would congregate at the warp-in. people would start smartbombing those spots and maybe discourage macros. then again, i like cheap pos fuel."
"while i do appreciate the safeguards which keep me from carelessly clicking on a link to a site which leads me to a keylogger which i then download and install after which it steals my account password, i am not a complete moron. please let me disable the damned warning. thank you."
"i hate this!only site that treats me like i am five"
"you expect this to be implemented, although you know thay this forum doesn't even manage to keep you logged in for more than 15 minutes or if you didn't visit it for 24hours you have to enter a char on that account to be verified?"
"^^ this.@ts: the 'warp to within 15km' change was made so you'd come off your lazy ass and acually pilot your ship. don't whine, grow a spine!"
"try and read for comprehension, would ya? we're not talking about why 'warp to 0' exists, lol, but about the reason auto-pilot warps you to 15km of the gate, instead of on top of it.and the reason i gave is good enough: there's too much automated (read: botted) stuff in eve going on already. the 15km distance to gate is a direct punishment for your laziness. and i like it that way. :) so, just get off your ass (or arse, if you're british) and pilot your ship manually already."
"some of you seem to get what i am doing here, some don't. the point is not to buff one race or another. or to make all races the same. rather the point is so that no matter what race a new player starts with, they have something decent to fly in pvp within a week or two.... like the minmattar rifter/thrasher. yes month old + characters can cross train, but that is unlikely for week old players.incursis/kestral have less slots / base stats than the merlin/tristan. so merlin/tristan should be changed to be new player friendly, or they get swapped for the incursis/kestral as to which ship has the better base stats/slots.punisher is great... when using autocannons. otherwise it is very very meh. again, this is not practical for a new player.destroyers have their own topics so i may have been over-reaching here. but the fact remains that the catalyst has only one mid-slot = suckage. the cormerant uses hybrids when new caldari chars are focusing on missiles so it is not newb fiendly. the catalyst is fail cause it is too slow for it's short range weapons.don't nerf the newb friendly rifter/thrasher.... just give other races newb friendly ships."
"get them to hurl cutlery at people and then violate the nda."
"qft"
"i should totally run for csm. except i don't have a passport or money.vote dranzer! i promise not to vote for stupid crap."
"i have a passport and money does this mean im in?"
"as the flights and hotels are paid for you only need beer money.get it right, the nda violation needs to be months before cutlery hurling in response to the op, there isn't a procedure in place to remove a sitting council. individual players can resign or (as finn notes) be removed for nda violations, but in that case the next alternate is promoted, no new election takes place.for the record csm don't have mod powers and thus are unable to ban macro miners etc. directly (some people seem to think that we can snap our fingers and ccp will do something, this is utterly not the case, it takes time to persuade ccp to do anything).as the next summit isn't till next week i would consider it a favour if you and others would stop spamming the same threads about botting and ice mining and please wait till after the summit minutes are released before you call for our heads"
"black ops ships are still very useful for cloaky-surprise-death gangs. i still make extensive use of command ships and never regretted putting the points into them that i did. dreads are still used on occasion but have been somewhat eclipsed by supercarriers, however they do have their uses."
"i have to agree.blackops are awesome for various tactics, the problem is that for many people the only tactic they know is full frontal assault (for which i agree they are basically unsuited). they could still do with some tweaking, but they work as is.pure command ships are not as popular now that cloaky t3 ships can provide slightly more boost for less (specialised) training time. i'm one of the rare people who have trained for all the combat mindlinks (yes, even information warfare can be exceptionally useful in the right gang) and don't regret the time spent. my only annoyance is that i get on very few killmails when flying a fleet booster dreads are only really used when you know there are no supers around. i'd quite like to see them get a boost but that depends on when/if ccp decide to look at supers and caps again."
"i hate, hate, hate the idea of losing skillpoints. so even though i can fly t3's, i don't. and yes, i have command ships v, fc v and all warfare specs to v as well. also all racial cruisers to v. ***** more. ;)i've got 377 kills in my damnation. i really like my damnation. it is true that dreads are kinda in limbo these days. a year or so ago, it would've been a no-brainer that i'd put my learning skill rebate points straight into amarr dread v. now they're probably going to carrier v. then again, carriers are for pos repping and hauling stuff, and pretty much nothing else, too. i'm not sure what changes can be made without boosting them too much or nerfing the hell out of supers. maybe carriers are just destined to remain the most effective sanctum eaters."
"get them to hurl cutlery at people and then violate the nda."
"qft"
"i should totally run for csm. except i don't have a passport or money.vote dranzer! i promise not to vote for stupid crap."
"i have a passport and money does this mean im in?"
"as the flights and hotels are paid for you only need beer money.get it right, the nda violation needs to be months before cutlery hurling in response to the op, there isn't a procedure in place to remove a sitting council. individual players can resign or (as finn notes) be removed for nda violations, but in that case the next alternate is promoted, no new election takes place.for the record csm don't have mod powers and thus are unable to ban macro miners etc. directly (some people seem to think that we can snap our fingers and ccp will do something, this is utterly not the case, it takes time to persuade ccp to do anything).as the next summit isn't till next week i would consider it a favour if you and others would stop spamming the same threads about botting and ice mining and please wait till after the summit minutes are released before you call for our heads"
"how about the long promised upgrades/changes for the industrialists - such as being able to use more than 11 factories and/or labs (factories as a priority), not much of a futuristic game when you have been restricted for nearly 6+ years @ 11.similar issue with the contract restrictions, 21 is a very small number, when to earn a living in game, you have nearly 70 ship bpcs being sold and other equipment bpcs, its a pretty poor number, and needs attention.previous csm's had promised to get these looked at, as the industrial players have been left out of changes/upgrades in the last few expansions."
"/flog"
"comming close to the 14th month of this topic."
"fix black ops. it's otherwise an overpriced and thin skinned primary."
"blasters need range increaserails need a dps increasehow much?i would say it should be balanced alongside proj/laser equivalents.ccp you have made hybrid so ineffective that it is near about redundant."
"it's a crazy idea, lol, but it might just work. :)+1"
"if it was events^observers we would lag out before 100 people were on grid.it's more like (events*observers)*(observers), or events*observers^2. this also isn't the issue.my math in that post was pretty godawful, yes, but how lag increases really isn't the issue. if a blade can handle a million events in one second without lag (made up*), then if it was 'bullet-timed' to take 10 minutes it could handle 600 million events per second without lag. say a ship does 10 events per second average (for easy math). do some quick algebra and you get it can handle 1000 ships on without lag or slowdown. if you make it 2 real seconds per game second you get 1414 ships without true lag. at 10 seconds bullet time (what i'd consider the peak end of the actual implementation) it would handle over 3000, a 300% increase with more stability for a 1000% time increase (which sounds bad until you compare it to \"everyone lags out and you can't do anything\"). if it reached the 10 minute mark suggested by the one opponent, you would need 25000 ships, or 2500% of original.you got me. i threw out numbers quickly on a random forum post to some guy playing naysayer to a good idea. and the game i coded for was called lithmeria, a text mud. go look it up, it's in beta but if you're a fan of text games it's a homebrew project by some good mud vets. thinking the 'scale' of the game matters when considering code and lag optimization is silly, though."
"there are several things that you don't take into account.if you slowed down the time, to a point where it takes 10 seconds for server tick you may find some strange situations, like:- if the opposing fleet is warping out to a different gate (which now would take 10 minutes instead the usual 1), instead of pursuing them in warp it may be easier just to jump out, and travel around the system (in normal time) to intercept them at the other gate before they come out of warp...- even in the slowed down time you won't be able to fly your interceptor between all the bses. the best you could do is make one direction change every 10 seconds.- how would you slow it and speed it up? based on what? say you bomb 50 people at the same time, and they all die (and get podded) and leave the system, would the system suddenly speed up and make everything go way faster than it should?- how would this impact things like session changes, jump in cloak, etc?with the way it works today most people just give up on issuing new commands, as they know it won't make any difference, now if you guaranteed that every command you issue would be executed people would start spamming a lot more commands which would cause the system to slow down way more than you would assume.and in the end you would be just as frustrated as the system would be just as unresponsive (well, maybe a bit less, but still unresponsive) as you'd have to wait up to 10 seconds (or rather a minute or couple minutes) for a module to activate."
"hmm could this actually be a useful and good idea?it can't be. yet...it is.although how large of an area would it affect? one system? that would cause some problems with people in other systems that are involved. they'd be doing everything much faster in comparison."
"i give my support for this. maybe something base on how many players are in system like the server will start to slow down in intervals starting at 1000 players."
"i really like this.the only problem is your #2 point: reinforcements.while one system plays 1 minute in 15 minutes, the rest of the systems play 15 minutes in 15 minutes. therefore, you can swap to a new ship and join the battle 15 times as fast as you should. more reinforcements being able to pile into an already lagged situation will only make it worse, not better. and because ships are not exploding fast enough because of time slowing down, it will get worse and worse until you might as well shut down the server because playing 1 minute per hour or 1 minute every couple of hours is not worth playing.still this is a good idea that ccp should be working on, supporting!"
"both of these are a direct result of the game getting more playable. i don't see a problem vovthis could be an issue... on the other hand, considering the cpu requirements of shield rr and the relative abundance of armor-tanking ships compared to shield tanking, i don't think anything has to change. in fact, since everything is moving slower, including targeting and dps, it gives the armor logis a chance to apply reps with better reflexes, resulting in better rr.i don't really see the metagaming as a problem either. you say that people may purposely put the system into \"bullet-time\" in order to have more time to get reinforcements... but to purposely \"slow down\" the system, you would have to jump people into the system until it lags... aka... you would have to bring reinforcements...basically you would have more time to actually coordinate reinforcements, but getting there, jumping in, loading grid etc. takes the same time. and both sides get the same time advantage.and as an added benefit, you get more efficient primary calling / tactics in general, which reduces the time spent in laggy battles.same here the key that i see is that there has to be a visible ui indication that informs everyone on the node (aka, several systems) that it is experiencing bullet-time effects. or, if you prefer, you can create separate levels of \"bullet-time\" - sending the node into bt 1 = 0.5x time dilation, bt 2 = 0.25x, etc. this creates a concrete indication of the level of latency, rather than the uncertainty that comes with lag.after all, the whole point is consistency between the front-end and the back-end, and the point should be to clearly communicate to the players exactly how the game will behave for a given action.i really don't think we'll fully understand the downsides to this idea until we implement it, and it could be a really good idea. supported.fakeedit: when trying to post this i got a \"time flux error\". fakeedit2: apparently now something happened to the \"planck bubble stabilizer\". this idea is so good it crashed the forum!"
"the point that should be emphasized is that making this feature requires rewrite of core game logic code. it is a massive undertaking. it would probably cost ccp about 1 million dollars in man hours (unless they pay minimum wage, then it's not so much)"
"if you can command drones to orbit yourself without a target lock, why would repping you need one?"
"comma, *****, period. but seriously, i don't see why i am not allowed to decide to trade off 475 dps directed at a target with my orgeii's for 250 hp/s reppage (for an all resist tank) directed to myself with some armor drones. we need more sand in this box!"
"open up your assets manager, click on the search tab, enter \"ship\" as the search string. see every ship you own in the entire game that's in a hangar get reported. see not one single drone get reported. the rest of your claims are either non sequitors or inaccurate. missiles are smaller than drones and the only difference is that they can only be 'controlled' to hit one target while drones can be controlled to hit several (ideally) and can be reused. missiles have hit points too. showing up as a color on the overview to represent who is using them is a non-issue and they don't have an actual cargo bay (ever been able to stuff your mining drones with mission loot?) they simply have a value that tells them how much they can mine before returning. and none of that matters, because we're talking about targeted, external, cooperative effects. the whole point is that they're external, they're targeted, and they're cooperative. that they're similar in some ways to ships and in some ways to missiles and in some ways to both a raven and a writing desk doesn't mean that we should make targeted, external, cooperative effects local effects."
"can't be targeted, don't show up on the overview, don't have guns, don't have shield or armor, can't be jammed, can't be controlled, only targeted. but i guess they're sort of like those other ships in the game that explode on contact with the enemy oh wait there aren't any. about the only thing that drones and missiles share in common is that they're both represented by a sphere in the physics engine and they're both weak to smartbombs.relative to the drone, not the host ship. logistic ships use external targeted cooperative effects relative to themselves, not relative to themselves and also the fleet leader. my drones can heal each other just fine, by the way. just not my ship. also, i can heal my drones. actually, anybody can heal my drones. but i guess they're an external targeted effect except when they're externally targeted internally at themselves. or something."
"supported"
"so they're a local effect on the host ship, and this proposal has no purpose because they're already only external relative to the drones but local relative to the host ship?no, they really are an external, targeted effect with regard to the host ship.yes. you are able to target, external objects, and effect them. a single drone is able to repair itself, locally? or you can direct external effects upon individual drones once you've targeted them? or something, indeed."
"okay, finn, your last post was so badly structured i'm not even going to try and retaliate against any specific part. instead i'll just state my points plainly.if you argue that a drone's repair capabilities are external relative to the host ship, then why can't drones heal themselves? i can use all my other external abilities on my drones, so why can't a drone heal itself?if you argue that a drone's repair capabilities are external relative to both me and my drones, why can my drones heal each other? furthermore, why are my drone's capabilities external to both me and the drone itself where my own external capabilities are external only to me?if you deny that drones are analogous to small weak ships remote controlled, then explain why they are functionally identical to them in almost every way.if you want to argue for balance, argue for balance. if you want to argue for consistency, argue for consistency. if i make a counterpoint and phrase it badly, ask me clarify.but do not idly flit from point to point depending on what sounds most convincing at the time, because chances are, if you only spent 12 seconds thinking up a counterpoint, i'm only going to need to spend 12 seconds to pick it apart.choose an argument, evaluate its merits, and then state it cleanly. otherwise, just support the damned proposal."
"the fact is that of course they're targeted external cooperative effects relative to the host ship, otherwise they'd already be able to heal the host ship and this proposal would make no sense.in this context, it simply happens to be that drones are a subset of targeted external cooperative effects that are deployed outside of a ship's hull, and individual drones can not apply their effects locally but can apply their effects to each other if you target them. and even then, drones do not rep each other because they feel like it, but because they are targeted external effects and you have to lock something up and direct the drones to rep it. you've now gone from \"drones are ships\" to \"drones are kinda like ships\". yes, they're kinda like ships (except for the massive difference that they are not ships). they're also kinda like missiles. and kinda like sentry guns. and kinda like npc rats. and kinda like...but what they are, is a set of targeted external effects.actually you'll find that i've been responding to your shifts in topic and my point has been completely consistent from the word go: namely, that drones are targeted external effects and, as such, do not apply to the host ship and must be utilized by being targeted onto something and then directed at it. major flitting."
"after seeing all people who support this idea, i just want to repeat, as already some more serious thinking players mentioned, that if you are able to selfrepair and giving selfshield would mess the balancing of all ships a lot.this feature will make most droneboats uberships, so they will need a nerf.i really dont want that.even not droneboats will be much stronger, just think about drakes giving themselves shield support while attacking others. just imagine a drake fleet all suppporting themselves with shield drones.its a different if you are a logistic boat giving shield support with remote shield and shield drones, because your enemy has the chance to interrupt the targets with ecm. usually there is only a few logistic ships and they have to fit eccm modules to avoid this interruption.with this new proposal your enemy will have a fair less chance to interupt the target, because once every drake has targetet himself you never can stop him because the drones will never lose it target.so a drake fleet will be very much overpowered if they gonna use shield drones for selfsupport.rebalancing all this will totally suck and will mess up the whole balancing of all ships./edit: also imagine you gonna try to attack a drake fleet and try to kill their shield drones one by one. only one drone boat with tons of shield drones always can delegate every drake a new set of 5 drones and they will be sort of uberuberindestructable fleet... so again:not supported"
"@finnwe know they're \"targeted external affects\" at the moment genius. we want to change that fact because it doesn't make sense to keep them as such.the fact that you would argue that that ccp shouldn't change something because \"thats the way it is so th"
"giving me a quote dump is not \"articulating your argument\". but since you refuse to, i'm going to do it for you. the following is a paraphrase of your argument. if it's inaccurate, you have nobody to blame but yourself. learn to compose your arguments better.drones are independent bodies. they have their own guns and their own reps. when i target something and tell my drones to engage, i'm telling my drones to target that entity. they're not working off of my target lock; they have their own targeting systems. that's why if i get jammed after telling my drones to shoot something, they keep shooting. the only reason my drones can't rep me is because they can't target me, and the only reason they can't target me is because i can't tell them to. this is because until recently there was no reason to allow drones to target you. that has changed. now there is.can you give me a reason not to implement this change that doesn't boil down to tautology?"
"truly, this is bizarre. you folks do understand the reasons that these effects are external and not internal, right? you do understand the reasons that they're targeted and not autonomous, right? is the problem that people really don't understand the nature and function of targeted external versus local effects, or why every single drone in the game is an external effect? is it the very, very basic nature of external vs local effect and targeted versus autonomous effect that're confusing folks here?this is a bit like someone saying that they're tired of the whole nitrogen-oxygen thing and would like to breath methane, and simply pointing out that they need oxygen doesn't work until you get into a discussion of the electron transport chain. your argument is simply so much more cogent if you start it out with flaming. of course, nobody has been able to provide a reason why remote reps and cap transfers and drones should work on the ships that are using them, other than that they'd like it, or by misunderstanding how drones actually work, or by disregarding game mechanics entirely because they're prefer that they were different. and if you don't understand the point of targeted external effects, then of course it doesn't make any sense to you to keep them as such. and the burden of proof is not on someone pointing out that a change isn't necessary, it's on those who do want it. and the \"i have to be able to apply a remote cap transfer array to my own ship, because it just doesn't make sense that i can't\" crowd haven't carried the burden of proof. you claim i'm \"flitting\" about, i prove that i've held to the exact same argument from my very first post in this thread and any changes have been responding to your argument, which has morphed for one rationalization to the next (drones are little ships! okay, drones definitely are not little ships, but they're somewhat similar!), you quickly change the subject. go figure. fiction. i have repeatedly pointed out that since they are targeted external effects, they should not be made into external-and-local effects as the whole point of that game mechanic is that you have to be able to target and direct such effects onto other gang mates that are cooperating with you or specific enemy targets that you have chosen or that your drones autoaggro onto without your control.and you're still wrong on basic game mechanics. of course when you target something and tell your drones to use their effect on it they're working off of your target lock. if you contend otherwise, try sending your drones after a specific target without a lock, see how well it works."
"i cant say if its good for pvp or not. but i can tell you, i wasnt able to make solo a 10of10 with my rattlesnake. then a friend helped me out with armor rep drones, medium, only tech i and i was able to tank the whole think without flying out one time.still doing something like this is more fun then soloing it and its supposed to be like this."
"eve is a sandbox, about choices. currently we lack the choice of whethere our own drones can repair us, or not. they should be able to, as they are independent ships.that is all it comes down to. it makes no logical sense that they would not be able to repair your own ship.this is a change that is direly needed and as has been pointed out, the intuitive and logical way to do things, the lack of which has baffled many people."
"here are three reasons.1) it would make sense from a fictional standpoint.2) it would open up new gameplay possibilities without destroying balance.3) it would be extremely simple to implement.that doesn't ****ing mean anything! external has to be defined relative to something. external relative to what? which entity is the drone's rep local to? if it's local to me, then why can't i order a drone to rep itself? if it's local to the drone, then why can't the drone rep me? but it can't be local to two ****ing objects at the same time, unless remote reps are run on schroedinger power.target locks are used as a communication mechanism between you and your drones because it was the best available at the time and it suited most of the requirements. besides that, your drones are just little robots that act like small ships, and the only reason i'm saying \"like\" small ships instead of calling them small ships is because if i don't you'll go on a ****y pedantic rant about how oh look they're not technically small ships so my entire point is therefore invalidated, which willfully ignores the point i make and isn't actually an argument, but just to please you i'll say they're \"like\" small ships.the only reason they can't heal me is because the interface does not support it, and there are valid reasons to alter the interface to support it. and even though it's completely ignoring your point (but i think i'm due by now):i did. i clicked a button called \"return and orbit\", and they flew straight towards me. they did this without me having a target lock on myself, or in fact anything at all! what's more, they did it repeatedly, every time. they never went and orbited some other guy, it was always me. gosh, isn't that something!"
"its gotta stop. supported."
"support!"
"support"
"punkbuster for eve :p"
"/signed"
"i'd certainly like to hear ccp's side of the story."
"+"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"agreed. eve is loosing credibility with the more casual player. perhaps this is one of the reasons why eve subscriber base is falling."
"1.0"
"latest devblog was a useless pile of 'politically correct statements', keep smacking ccp in the face about this gigantic eve problem."
"/signed"
"and not the useless gumph that was in the latest devblog."
"quoting and supporting."
"yes. stop the people killing the game"
"this. real answers please, not some pc bull****."
"signed"
"if they can add a couple wavy lines to mwd's, why not do the same for bpc's"
"definately support this. i hate having to guess if a hauler is carrying battleship bpo's or bpc's."
"supported - not only for practical reasons, but also for the sake of breaking bpc scams."
"great idea"
"im hoping someone has an old screenshot of the skills confirming or disproving my claim... :( i cant be that confused..."
"the op is wrong, all i trained at the start was learning.as started hitting level 5 on the first tier rank 1 skills, the second tier rank 3 skills came into the game.28th of sept 2004.the only change they made, was to reduce the requisite from level 5 to level 4 for the second tier.they never changed the rank of the second tier, it was always rank 3 on tq.here is a link to a learning skills post back then.another link to a tripoli post back then."
"i like the idea, maybe the skill could fall from 5 to 4 to enable the remap. but that should depend on the balancing (what rank, what attributes), in some combinations complete resetting to lvl 0 would be better.it would work with and without \"plex for remap\" too^^.i don't like the \"plex for remap\" idea though, it's not good for the game overall imo. but it would probably, but not necessarily, bring more money for ccp, good for them at least (maybe for us too then lol)."
"what you're proposing, believe it or not, is actually quite similar to learning skills; an investment with no drawback which would benefit every player unconditionally. the form is different, but the fundamental issues are the same. it'd become the new learning skills. \"what do i train first?\" \"remapping 5.\"not supported. sorry. i'm all for increased or optional remaps, but not tied to a skill."
"i think you misunderstood the idea. every year a free remap would stay, 2 free remaps for new chars would stay. the skill would be just a addition for those that want to have more remaps. it's a bit like the t3s where you lose sp/skill-levels if your ship dies.you train it to v and then rightclick it, select \"enable remap\" and it resets to 4 or 0 or however it is balanced. then you got another remap for the time invested, and since it resets to a certain degree it has a drawback. if the skill would get completely deleted after \"using it up\" for a remap ccp could pull some money out of the game too (seems to be a problem i heard) with a price between 10m and 100m or whatever."
"not saying no.not supporting either.if this where to work, the skill itself should be expensive (like 50+m expensive) and be a high rank skill (16 - 20).in this case it might be balanced to cut off 2 or so weeks from the remapping time per level trained. it should never be possible to remap twice in a short period. (6 months or less)after all this is said and done, i don't think this would add anything of value to the game."
"cautiously supporting with the idea that it be called neural endurance or some better name."
"yep yep. i like this idea..."
"personal wallet divisions too. no i can't make an alt corp."
"first the engine trails, then the cyno effect, and now the pod squish sound?!?! eve is dieing i tell you."
"never heard this but confirming it sounds awesome. if someone has it please link."
"have i heard it? no.am i a greedy little ape-thing that wants all the squishy sounds he can hear? yes. i'm sure it sounds delicious."
"unfortunately i started podding people after this squishy noise vanished, so i have only heard it from a sound file. it was awesome! bring back the squish!"
"almost as good as the biomass noise"
"/approve"
"no it would create lag and all that.thumbs down, till engine trails come back faaaaaaaaaaagits."
"supported!"
"fully supported, nothing more satisfying than hearing a squish lol"
"there was a pod squish sound!? bring all of these back, ccp."
"i was sure i already +1'ed this, but that was probably in another thread."
"i sat and thought about this problem last night and thought of many different options on what to do and what could be done. and i came up with a way ccp could make this happen and it wouldn't take alot of time/effort and would solve this problem once and for all. security status decrease - not alot, but would decrease over time. the only way to fix the decrease in security status would obviously be to run missions, which solves another problem, not many running missions as they would like. over time, these macros who don't run missions, but just sit and mine, would have a negative security status to the point either they would actually have to run missions or easily become prey. everyone keeps saying how this game should be more on hands vs click and go watch a movie or whatever they do. i believe this would be the best answer to this problem and in just a few months, it would solve alot of these problems. not only that, but it would also make it easier for ccp to know who is a macro/ptmer and who isn't. any thoughts?"
"ways to destroy macro please.punk-buster would be nice. or anythingow and more content for youtube and etc. :d"
"ahh he is so right. punkbuster is used by americas army and has been for yrs. it's a selection you have to have checked in order to log into your account to play. it makes sure there are no bots/hacks. there's your answer to the problem ccp, now it's your turn to fix it."
"i have seen one isk spammer since that button was implemented."
"you are absolutly right, once ccp shows (like with this button), they really care about this, lots of people will think twice, if they use makros.at the moment everyone can see, that using macros will give no punishment at all. maybe you risk a temporarily ban. maybe.but this doesnt happen often. so why not using macros."
"the link was broken, so i will post the content here:"
"why not."
"resists bonus sounds good , since it benefits both active and buffer tanksjust balance it so there's no lesser active tank compared to current statecyclone surely would benefit from it - my current buffer fit has 55k ehp , with resists bonus it would be close to drake ehp, although still dealing 100 less dps than hurricanepossibly , resists-bonused buffer maelstrom would have slightly better ehp than trimarked abaddonit is , after all, shield resistance bonus what makes shield tank on a drake so formidablesuch 'new ' cyclone would have more dps than drake , but limited range; nicely balanced imo'new' myrmidon .... even more tank than drake , and widespread sentry drone usage... possibly new fotm for missions drake would remain best for c1-c3 wh cyclone - awesome for roaming with scimmies"
"i support this thread, because it is about time the myrmidon and brutix got more useful pvp bonuses, for such pvp style ships."
"edited openining post"
"why not, if a practical solution was found, allow players to choose what faction to run against? as long as it is applicable for the faction you are missioning for? why not have agents that deal exclusively with anti-drone missions and arcs, for example?"
"ok, this is an attempt not to troll, but what i'm hearing is something along the lines of:\"we want the last remnant of consequences removed from missions.\"i do missions myself occasionally. i do the storylines as well. as a result, my standing with the gallente federation is sliding downwards. and this is all good. i do work for their enemy afterall. even though i am no longer in fw, i still help to undermine their efforts.i think consequences are great. i actually believe that the ramifications of choosing a corp to work for (missioning) should be a lot more severe.i don't understand that the federation for example, allows capsuleers with very high standing towards caldari navy, in their sovereign space.i have to say not supported.instead give missioning far greater consequences than they already have."
"consequences are great - however so is choice, i choose not to fight for the gallente as in rl in civil war chose not to fight for opposing sides, so why should i have to if i choose to mission for a while,2nd point im trying to make is why get 5,6 or 7 faction missions in a row as declining these makes the agent unusable,im trying to suggest solutions however i cant think of every viable possibility whence its here for debate."
"very supported. get rid of faction kill missions."
"oh, but you do have a choice, and that's my point actually.you could choose not to get involved in a corporation military agendas. (kill missions)you could do courier, trade or even mining missions. yeah, they might suck. but if you go up to someone and say. \"you need someone killed?\" and they say \"sure, handle this.\" and you then say no, he should probably kill you instead. (lolextreme, i know)"
"i'm not saying whether they should or shouldn't give out these missions maybe your proposal is ok but i don't think their is anything wrong with how the game works now.the eve universe is not a choice. there *are* wars between the factions. you can't \"choose\" to make this not the case. this means that companies or entities that have strong ties with one faction will ask you to do things against the faction they are at war with. i don't see anything unfair or problematic with the current system. if you are willing to sacrifice ties you have to a faction for the good of a the company/entity you should get ahead with that company/entity more than others that aren't willing to do that."
"say no to recycled animations/effects!"
"meh. i like the new ones better for cloaking tbh."
"1. eve has no sounds. those are fake sounds added in post-production.2. they upgraded their sdl way back when they did the gfx changes to vamps-neuts and such. doing that broke the old effects. so you can not haz old cloak effect back.3. i like the new one better."
"dont touch it!the moa is ugly, and i like that about her.the scorp needs to be changed, it no longer fits into the caldari ranks."
"do not! change the moa hull. i like it just the way it is. if you make it symmetrical, ccp, i will pod myself back to 900k sp irl.that said, this \"redesigning old models\" thing needs to be iterated upon.supporting."
"i sat and thought about this problem last night and thought of many different options on what to do and what could be done. and i came up with a way ccp could make this happen and it wouldn't take alot of time/effort and would solve this problem once and for all. security status decrease - not alot, but would decrease over time. the only way to fix the decrease in security status would obviously be to run missions, which solves another problem, not many running missions as they would like. over time, these macros who don't run missions, but just sit and mine, would have a negative security status to the point either they would actually have to run missions or easily become prey. everyone keeps saying how this game should be more on hands vs click and go watch a movie or whatever they do. i believe this would be the best answer to this problem and in just a few months, it would solve alot of these problems. not only that, but it would also make it easier for ccp to know who is a macro/ptmer and who isn't. any thoughts?"
"perhaps punkbuster could solve our problems?it's used in america's army 3 and there are never any botters or hackers in that."
"punkbuster - that's right. i used to play aa as well. thanks for that reminder of punkbuster. the program is already out there ccp, so how about it?"
"it would be interesting to have 0.0 region where cynos are disabled completely. something about being too far out from other regions or whatever.naturally that would imply the space is dedicated to small entities, not mega alliances.i don't like the whole cyno mechanic, it was a mistake for ccp to put it in"
"maybe its better to change lowsec in npc space. but than crappy npc space without officer chance like syndicate ect."
"no-local nullsec without capitals... i like it."
"yeah i was thinking about that, having lived on w-space for so long, i forgot to tell it ^^we can consider the region would be flooded with solar anomalies who don't allow cyno to works or something like that.and people trying would be either forbiden to jump, or would maybe appear somewhere else. (and i doubt someone would try to jump his sc if he appears 5 jumps away from the fleet xd)an idea could also be allowing cyno at only some times, which would allow people to use the capitals, but at very few ocasion, and after having done some research to find at which moments the anomalies would be small enough to not be a risk for the jumps"
"the thing is, players will just blob with the next largest ships, so no more super cap blobs lets blob with battleships,it would be hard to logistically do anything because the stargate only allowed a certain mass ammount each day,it is a good idea, but needs alot of work.ps.no more cyno's would be fun, long live freightor slowboat logistics chains"
"it could be done using a max total mass by xx amount of time.for example you can only jump 10 bs by hours, after that the (old) gate is overheated and refuse to works for a bit of timemeaning an invader could came with 100bs if he really want, but it would be really hard, as he would have to do it during a very long time, and tke the risk of each wings being taken down before reinforcement being able to jump.(of course numbers are placeholder)with this system it mean invaders have a pain to attack with big blobs, but also inhabitants must make choice ; - eithers they have lots of spare ships ready in any system ; will cost a lots, and will need lots of structures to handle that - will need outpost, cause with pos it would be a real pain for logistics. meaning this would be only really posisble on the base of the alliance- or they must choose if they want lots on one, or a bit on every system- a solution can also be having very large fleets of small ships invaders (this can be countered by also adding a max number of ships by xx time if needed - we can consider not counting some ships like shuttle, miners and indus on the sg limitation to allow travelling)could also add an idea like a short term stargate offline process, which would be like a reinforced timer while system can't be accessed for a few hours, usable only for sov 5 for example and allow defense to have a buffer in critical situations (of course not usable a lot)"
"when serious decision making comes about adding new regions, i would have to go against the idea of custom rules for cynos and mass limitationsjust the mere existence of no-local is enough of a contested issue. no need to push things too far.these no-local regions will be prototype for converting all other 0.0 regions to no-local. they have to be shown to operate successfully."
"i don't see the interest of adding something different is there's only this change.if we want to do something different, at least a bit more difference on it.that's why i proposing more change that only that."
"the first one is more of just an annoyance to me in the first place. i am allowed to preemptively overheat a module, without activating it and then cloak. however, i cannot preemptively overheat the module while cloaked. it seems a bit silly, but why would preemptively overheating a module while cloaked not be allowed, however, preemptively overheating it then cloaking is.second, i understand the arguments against having an unprobeable set up, while many argue that it is inefficient and a waste of time, why do i keep seeing more mission runners go in two or three with unprobeable logistic set ups and unprobeable t3's into level 5 missions. i definitely support being very hard to probe, however, being impossible to probe is a different animal entirely. a recommended fix to this would be to have a nearly unprobeable set up, so that someone without the proper skills and very specialized equipment would not be able to find them, and make those that have those tools handy longer to find then the generic mission running drake. this would help balance the ability to actually find these people by simply making it longer to find them giving them a greater time to escape. along with this, i also support more missions having sleeper ai, so it isn't such an easy kill for a pirate such as myself to come in and grab my target."
"\"stupid carebears, adapt or die\" -> \"not so stupid carebears adapted\" -> \"whaa, the carebears adapted, nerf the solution they have found, i want my free kills\"not supported."
"not so much, there are some ways to catch them, however there is a counter to every single way to catch them. if they undock you can try putting enough dps on them before they redock, but in all honesty if they are smart they will just wait out the 30 second session timer without doing anything and redock without so much as anyone targetting them. if they jump through gates all the t3's can cloak so they just switch out mods while in station in the new system. it is impossible to try to burn towards them/drop bookmarks until you land on their grid because mission grids are off any alignment of celestials. plus, they would be done with their mission even if you were able to burn towards them. i am not saying hand out free kills, i am saying to not make it impossible to find them, as it stands now it is a risk free way to capitalize on level 5's. there is no possible way to adapt to find them beyond burning towards them and that is silly when they are 10 au from a celestial and not in line with any other celestial."
"you need to separate your proposals. the first one is pretty damned obvious and could almost be classified as a bug. the second one is trickier.the problem with your proposal is that there's no such thing as somebody being \"hard to probe\"; you can either probe them or not. i'd consider supporting a probing \"fix\", but you need to propose one. all you currently did was point out that there may be a problem. even if a problem is acknowledged, okay, now what? give me something to work with, here."
"1. an unprobable fit still gimps the t3 so that it can't perform as well as it could. risk vs reward.2. fyi, ppl can get a warpable scan within minutes on a ship that's not unprobable, which is not even remotely enough time to complete a mission in a gimped anti-scan fit.3. they're risking a billion and have to know how to stay safe. even the slightest mistake will cost them dearly, whether it's to pirates or the lvl 5 rats in a gimped fit. what r u risking? nothing because u're in a pvp fitted fleet and u're hunting an expensive pve fit pinata. risk vs reward.4. low sec is already safe for u pirates, yet u really want them gone so badly? ok, let's depopulate low sec of all easy prey so that u'll have no choice but to actually fight another pirate out of sheer desperation.not supported."
"is this one of those stealth whine threads?i have to ask this one [more] question.how do you know its unprobable?do you have the guys fit?cause these unprobable t3 fits are quite sucky in the dps/tank department.maybe your just sucky at probing. :)"
"quee eff tee."
"1. no risk involved since they are unprobeable, can cloak and switch modules in station, and dock up without getting targeted. often times they have a logistics ship with them as well which also allows them to fit less of a tank and more gank.2. how, tell me how, i named it earlier where you can d-scan them down and try dropping safes, but if they are in a mission that is not in alignment to any celestial body, it is literally impossible to burn the 10+ au to grab them.3. you don't have to drop more than a t2 fit to be effective with these fits so that statement is null and void4. safe? really? low-sec is safe? news to me? i thought that when i went below -6 security status people could freely fire on me without being shot by gate guns.don't be so upset your easy risk free cash flow is being noticed"
"plus one. yum piwwate tears"
"^^ this. not supported."
"actually since i have been discussing it with some of the pilots who do fly level 5's in duo's and they have pointed me out their fits, and we discussed the predator prey relations of low sec. i do know they have unprobeable fits by the 1.08 ratio. maybe i am sucky at probing"
"i have been playing eve for over 3 years now. i never lived long in high sec. i started my eve time in low sec. i soon found out that pvp is way more fun than being in empire. i moved from there to a 0.0 corp in sov space and from there to syndicate. from my experiences best pvp is to be gained in npc space. sov space has often holders in it that can bring numbers because they have the home/dock advantage. from what i have seen is that npc space that is close located high sec entrances can hold allot of small corporations that are pvp orientated. but not only corporations also lonewolves looking for some action. low sec has some disadvantages. gate guns in example is one. to pvp at a gate u need ether aggress your opponent or u need to be in a tanked bc or bs. this rule out allot of pvp opportunities. second disadvantage is sec status. these days i seldom come out 0.0. i have alts for doing my weekly/monthly groceries. purely the fact that i get a sec hits just prevents me of being active in low sec. both these reasons make an average pvp'r run away as fast as he can. my proposal is to change low sec into something else. that somethign else i would like to discuss in here, (so trolls dont bother to reply a stupid answere, just a \"no\" will do) my proposal is to change low sec into npc space that has some restrictions compared to \"regular\" npc space like curse, venal, stain, npc fountain, npc delve. restrictions like:-lowsec/nullsec rats - officer capability/or not-bubbles/no bubbles-l5 missions-better quality l4 agents-ectdiscuss!"
"so basically you just want to get rid of gate guns and sec hits?"
"then don't go to low sec. as you said, you have alts to do your grunt work, and 0.0 has better pvp anyway...0/10."
"this does give an un-fair advantage to shield tankers as there is nothing in your solution for armor tankers. i don't think this solution really fit's in the eve universe, imho.not supported"
"they would still have that role.so yes."
"a browse through this thread and your idea has me convinced you're trolling. there is absolutely no other way you could believe the things you have stated in this thread. what an awful idea."
"no, you are trolling."
"&system=l-ie41if you say so..."
"i still say so. that link proves nothing... except that pl knows who won't risk hotdropping on them."
"hahaha okayagain, if you say so..."
"so if bs own subcaps but hotdropping is a big factor reducing bs use why would you buff them versus sub caps and leave hotdropping the same????? it makes no sense."
"so you respond to my accusation that you're trolling by simply saying \"no u\"sounds like youre admitting that you're trolling."
"if everyone had a scan res of 500 everything would lock everything at exactly the same speed so there would be no point in using small ships as tackle when larger ships lock just as fast."
"see, it's **** like this that makes me know you're trolling. with this change there would be literally no reason to fly anything but a supercapital ever."
"if battleship wasnt needed to get to capital, i woulnt even train it. to damn slow. lacks dps, and cost way to much.i support any changes that make the battleship a usefull tool."
"this upgrade would make current faction battleships worthless, the whole point of nvy raven is the extra turret, the navy apoc is the extra lowslot, i dont think anyone really cares about the few extra ehpbutbattleships need a little lovehmm...double ehpdone."
"okay chicken little.fyi, of all the reasons to not fly a supercap, lock time isn't among them."
"the idea that only small ships should effectively tackle is an absurd one to begin with. but smaller ships would still have the most important tackling requirements: speed and agilityfrigates would be just as useful as before, even if a titan can lock the same target just as fast. or are you worried about leviathons tackling at gate camps after the change?"
"clearly you are not understanding what trolling is. get on topic or get out."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.a specialized and stylized fleet of nano sniper bses is hardly an argument... its a reach. people kill with black ops too, but i don't see how that means they are fine as is.the only reason bses are as used as they are now is that they are t1 and look more impressive than they are."
"the scan res is the only thing that makes sense. generally not supported."
"if the solution is to look at slots available for neuts and their counters respectively then there has to be differentiation on mids/lows like there is for highs.adding mids/lows to sub-bs classes would just result in even more buffer modules or ewar and people would still be neuted to hell and complain about it unless you make them 'injector exclusive' which is kind of silly.that kind of differentiation will however most likely end in tears as you have to put arbitrary restrictions on tank modules, drive modules, cap modules etc. high slots are much simpler when it comes to that sort of thing as you have \"guns!\" + \"everything else\"a simpler and easier to balance approach would be to look at fitting cost of small/medium injectors. they currently remove a lot of oomph from any fit, which is one of the reasons why people tend to avoid them.would have made for an awesome killboard battle report if they had been noobs and all gone close though"
"problem case :at the moment we have a sort of semi-regulation in the form of the character bazaar rules whenever a player buy/sell a character. however, due to the nature of forum posts, details whether transfers had actually occured cannot be fully confirmed by any neutral party observers. in addition, sorting through the voluminous posts trying to follow the paper trail can be both exhaustive and frustrating.(tentative) proposal :create an attribute tag for each character that lists its (buy/sell) transfer history (i have a feeling that this is probably already available via the api but not set to public).create a query front on eve-o that allows any 3rd party to do a name search for the transfer history.game pros :makes character background checks easier and more accurate.tools given to players to expose a convoluted net of character transfers. additional anti-macrobots hunting benefits.clears the cloak & dagger atmosphere (a little) for more constructive corp/alliance building.game cons :makes it harder to plant a spy in corps/alliances (but not impossible).edit: modified the title for more oomph edit2: added extra colours for even more oomph."
"in 0.0 with the sov upgrades and sanctum abusing. every system in 0.0 except npc 0.0 is valuable. however there are so many lowsec systems which have no traffic at all. or for that matter they only have traffic of traffic. not system usage.example:"
"quiet lo-sec systems are very useful indeed."
"turn it into a puzzle game. instead of mindlessly clicking on extractors, make it so you play tetris or minesweeper or something for pi goods. different games for different levels of reactions. this would be much more interesting and entertaining than the current non-challenging monotonous button smashing."
"it'd be interesting and entertaining for the first few hours, maybe. after that you'd get sick of playing tetris.what pi needs is to become simcity in space. let a colony be a colony instead of a pile of dots. give me traveling channels, make my citizens have demands, let my goal be to make a thriving system. have the exports be the reward for creating a thriving ecosystem, not just \"passive mining on a pretty ball\"."
"i think you should wait and see what they are going to release, regarding pi, in january with incursion.not supported"
"add one more high slot for utility mods like energy neutralizer, salvager, ect. i am flying the navy omen right now because the zealot is only good for sniping/ahac gangs.this one change, adding a utility high slot, will make it useable, i would like to see the ability to field some scout drones or even a couple medium drones but perhaps that is too far?"
"hell nothat thing is a beast already, adding more slots ain't gonna do my drake any good rly"
"yeah one more slot isn't gonna do you drake any more harm either. what is the problem?"
"the problem is... anyone with half a brain would pull a gun off and add that utility item.it's called balance for a reason.any ship in this game if they had an extra high slot would be buffed in any number of situations.point is... your doing it wrong if you can't handle that... tough... go skill for a drake.the zealot to me never quite made sense but considering the dps capable of coming out of that thing... yeah... this would make it too powerful.oh and its not an eff'ing battlecruiser... its a hac.so stop comparing a drake to it.it's supposed to be a flying glass cannon that pew's pew's... not a flying shield tank with tons of ehp and little to no dps unless in bigger packs.it's like comparing an orange to an.... walnut?ps: no drone bay did bug me... but as i said before... its a hac with a specific purpose."
"it has to be without any increase in fittings or it would quickly become op.in the meantime i suggest you drop a gun for the neut, just like old times when it only had room for 4 guns. actually works rather well in most cases, even if it is at a massive 20% dps sacrifice.my preference for the zealot is and always has been a dronebay. omen has one, n.omen has one but zeal has none .. very curious."
"supported"
"its not a bug anymore, its a feature.so its fixed ?!"
"i find it really stupid and ******ed how 300+ supercarriers are getting produced (most likely from bots too) and there is enough titans on a field now that dd'ing a sub cap is normal now, i think when ccp made the supercap changes they wanted supercaps to be anti-cap killers but werent aware on how the dread would become somewhat a black sheep (poor dreads) and how titans and supercaps would be in the future.now a year after dominion, titans > supercarriers > carriers > rest fleets are normal in 0.0, it has even gotten to the point where it is normal to dd a subcap, when you look at fleet fights where titans have been dding hacs and logis you know there is something wrong.based on a couple of anti supercap threads i thought of this idea, this wont gimp supercaps it will just make subcaps have a chance, i am all for supercaps but you cant deny how ******ed the situation is with them.introducing a new t2 bc, no name given because its that cool ;)role bonust2 harbinger - bonus to radar ecm by 300%t2 drake - bonus to gravimetric ecm by 300%t2 hurricane - bonus to magnetometric ecm by 300%t2 myrmidon - bonus to ladar ecm by 300%300% may sound like a lot but falcons get 150% to ecm @ recon 5assuming my maths is correct, based on lvl 5 skills this would have approx 17% chance per jammer to jam a supercarrier @ 150 sensor strthese bc will also affect supercaps of the same race only (meaning the t2 harbinger will only be able to jam aeons & avatars).to sub caps they will be nothing more than a ****ty overpriced racial falcon but to supercaps they will be <insert a bad word>, they will also make the sansha supercarrier worth getting since their will in effect be the only supercarriers immune ;)these shouldnt affect sieged caps (dreads in siege or carriers in triage) and for the sake of things change siege to 5 mins!!, this way dreads will be useful again in 0.0 and supercaps wont be as simple as warp, drop drones, target and lol!it is really stupid how titans are fielded to counter subcaps now wtf :/1 more thing, they can work with black ops too and like heavy interdictors have a really nice tank <U+F04A>"
"fairly sure super caps are immune to e-war so your suggestion may not work for that reason"
"i am well aware supercaps atm are immune to ew which is the whole point of this ship"
"the problem is that in order to have a chance at jamming capitals, they'd have to be incredibly brutal at jamming everything else. i believe caps need a major weak spot, but not this."
"this is why i think a bonus to racial ecm only would work, it is the same as getting jammed by 2 jammers on a falcon, major difference is the bonus ships get will be racial related, so even if a person took 4 of these t2 bc they still be less useful than 4 even 8 falcons. imagine this scenario, you are in a fleet of 4 t1 bc and 4 t2 bc (the one from this thread, one of each race) you come across 4 t1 bc on a roam (lets assume they are all the same race), only one of the t2 bc will be useful, if the others tried to jam they will be ineffective.lets assume the cost of these t2 bc are the same as command ships (approx 160+ mil well for a damnation), in the example above you would have just risked 640+ isk all for the benefits of 160 mil isk. if you brought 4 falcons you would have spent 360 mil isk (approx.) and all falcons would have been useful.what i would like to see is supercap laming changed without having to nerf them and at the same time do something that makes dreads get used more.people will still be able to drop 50+ supercaps on a field, but they will now have a weakness so to speak, one directed at them similar to how heavy interdictors worki have a feeling a change will happen sooner rather than later, people arent really too happy with the sov mechanics in 0.0 so i will assume a fix to 0.0 will happen and when it does it will affect supercaps, what concerns me is that there will be a unnecessary nerf on supercaps or worse on normal caps :("
"i assume that almost everyone will agree that the armor repair bonus on gallente ships is almost useless and to a lesser degree it also applies to minmatar active shield tanks, but instead of simply removing the bonus it could be expanded to make it actually useful again.the idea is to apply the bonus to any kind of active repair received, including remote repair through modules or drones.this way the races still keep their racial differences, with resistance bonus being a better choice for situations with limited or no rr and the active bonus powerful enough to make them interesting in fleets where enough rr is available as support."
"true, the activ repair bonus on the gallente ships is somewhat wasted for all cases where armor-logistics are around but the main problem is with the hybrid weapons in general. once ccp decided how to deal with that problem, maybe a gun revamp or even reshuffel of the ship bonuses, the problem with fleet ops will be much easier to solve.as for the minmatar, their activ tankers have one rather major advantage over the gallente: the crystal implant set. using the imps + the shield boost bonus + decent shield booster = wicked tank.sure the imps cost quite a bit but as we learned from titans/scs, cost is not a balancing factor.tl;dnrgallente change wait for hybrid change 1st.minmatar change no thanks everything fine here."
"whole heartedly supported. quite frankly, i really don't understand how some of the *really* basic bugs (read: graphical) haven't been fixed. it's bloody ridiculous!"
"not supported. too much whining here. i would happily support any request of improving fw. but demanding that all work in another gameplay area has to stop immediatly until your toys are fixed, is not helpful at all."
"your words are understandable, but your grammar needs a bit of work. have you ever pvped before? most skirmishes are over in the space of 1 or 2 minutes and everyone is out of the area (docking or moving to another system) 15 to 30 seconds later... loot and all. so your proposal won't really be viable in this respect.in the case of \"larger\" fights (\"larger\" = 25+ people on both sides) and capital skirmishes your idea might have some merit... however it will be like sending \"lambs to the slaughter\" unless the people warping in are very prepared. huzzuh... you have now given the lachesis, arazu, and minmitar command ships an invaluable role in gatecamps (100km skirmish-linked, faction point anyone?). more than that, you have upped the numerical requirements for pirates to camp a gate (i.e. they will blob gates with more ships to cover the extra area). also, did you know that the range of gate guns is 150km? you won't have gate \"protection\" beyond that range which means that frigates/interceptors become viable for low-sec pirate gatecamping. grid size is automated so ccp would probably need to tamper with some of the basic space coding (which is probably buried under a metric ton of other coding). and here i was just getting used to things not being broken (if they dig that deep they will break something).errrr... probing and scanning is already quite easy. with near-maxed skills you can pinpoint a target in 30 seconds to a minute... provided of course that he/she is not cloaked or using that \"unprobable\" trick.i can't really comment on this because i have actually never heard of a person using drones to pinpoint someone's location. what i've seen is people scanning for the ship/target directly or probing out the mission/plex/sanctum site to indirectly find the ship/target."
"before we had the new probing system, you'd probe for mission runners with exploration probes due to deadspace masking the signatures so it wasnt feasible to do it with ship probes.you'd run probe cycles over and over again until you got a hit on something, and that something quite often were their drones mwding around in the deadspace."
"add a ping function to the carrier classes, or make it a module even so that salvage ships can be utilized.set it off and any 'deep space' (ie. lost control) drones light up with an overview beacon for x minutes.depends on whether ccp makes the gallente salivate when/if they make the 'reconnect to drones' feature a reality. we have it for probes so it should be doable."
"why not just put a pos in your ratting system? no need to cloak then."
"i didn't respond to this mainly because it's circular; i'm paraphrasing, but:me: \"i believe wrecks belong to the mission runner.\"you: \"wrecks don't belong to the mission runner.\"me: \"then why does the noctis cater exclusively to mission runners?\"you: \"well, since it does, you have nothing to complain about! everything is fine.\"as for nullsec complexes or other esoteric things, okay:the noctis is a ship whose design philosophy exclusively caters to the notion that wrecks are owned by those who destroy the ships, or, by proximity, their friends and allies.the above assumes that you can't tractor somebody else's wrecks in nullsec. if you can, that might change my opinion.okay, i'll give you point, technically salvaging from other peoples labors is indeed what they do. but, fortunately, since i'm such a **** with words, i'll point out that, actually, that's not what salvager means. to salvage means, literally, \"to collect discarded or refused material\". the wrecks that a mission runner produces are neither discarded nor refused.my point was that the \"spirit\" of the salvager is to survey an abandoned battleground, searching for hidden trinkets and spoils that have been left behind. as it stands, there are a lot of wrecks out there being abandoned that the salvagers can't get to. the only wrecks they can get to are those which may or may not be discarded scraps. the point is to help both sides of the equation."
"there are abandoned battlegrounds already, the wrecks in them are blue.the ones with yellow wrecks are battlegrounds that are very much not abandoned."
"i assume you're talking about magnetometric exploration sites. i've done those; they're far and few between, and the salvage is paltry except on the rare occasions where i find a t2 rig component.and yet i can salvage those yellow wrecks without risk of retaliation. why?"
"hold up there, skippy. i didn't say that. i said that it happens to give mrs an advantage if they care to use it, not that it exclusively gives them an advantage.if we're going to bring rl definitions of salvage into the debate, you might want to research how salvaging actually works, legally speaking, in rl. hint: it pretty much mirrors what happens in eve.lets step back a bit. we can look at this on a \"things should be consistent\" basis, or we can look at things from a game balance basis.the game balance basis is probably the easiest. it would be very difficult - to put it mildly - to argue for any change on the basis that hi-sec mission runners need or deserve more income.if we're going to argue on a consistency basis then there's no real reason rat wrecks should have an \"owner\" (other than the serpentis corporation or whatever) at all. this isn't the chronicles of riddic; you dont get to \"keep what you kill\". in all seriousness, the best possible change would be to make all wrecks 'owned' only by the corp whose member was flying the destroyed ship, and anyone to tractor it.your proposal is based on nothing more than your gut feeling that those wrecks are inherently yours. gut feeling is a terrible way to balance a game or administer a legal system. however, i do not retract my support for your proposal, since it serves my ends: specifically, making hi-sec mission running much more dangerous that it is now"
"because the law says that the first to salvage a wreck owns the salvage. applies in eve, applies in rl.if you dont like the law, you're free to relocate to areas where it doesn't apply, or is weakly enforced.you don't get to complain when the same set of rules that protects your ship in hi-sec from people who don't like you also protects the ships of other people whom you don't like."
"nono, you can abandon any battlefield if its your battlefield. its very easy, right click, select abandon wreck and nearby wrecks, and ta da, its an abandoned battlefield. the yellow ones very aren't.why? well, because as nice as the theory of \"well if they get flagged, then they have risk\" is, it doesn't work irl. as i pointed before, this flag would actually be a boon for ninja salvagers. i am glad to see the \"tractor wrecks you don't own\" thing gone tho.i think ideally, it would be awesome if there was a way to stop these people. unfortunately, as its been pointed out, flagging is more dangerous than not flagging for people that don't know what they are doing (re: miners and can flippers). fixing this would need a massive rework of the agression timer mechanic, but even that has massive and unforeseen consequences: make it longer? that fool that pulled from the yellow can not knowing any better can never undock. then what?i think ccp's solution was good, a ship that gives wreck owners a massive, assimmetrical advantage when it comes to looting.true story: the other day some parasite in a frigate was parasiting in my mission, burning fast for the wreck with the mission item so he could try and ransom it and or wreck my day by making me shoot him.my friend was salvaging in his noctis. result? frustrated parasite flies slower than the noctis tractors, we get mission item, and get out.unless you are gonna make concord blow people up for stealing, what we got is the best we can have."
"dranzer, ignore that guy. salvage flagging is the way to go. definitely."
"if they choose to use the advantage or not is irrelevant. i'm just arguing that the advantage exists, and that it exists to nobody but the destroyer of the wreck and his allies.agreed. i sincerely believe usability trumps all else. i only argue the other sides when others do.i actually agree pretty strongly with this. i think it's actually more profitable to run missions in highsec than it is to mine the abc ores in nullsec. something's pretty bloody wrong there. to be honest, i think salvage in general is too profitable, and i'd be all in favor for something which aims to reduce the value of salvage.but if we're going to talk game balance, here's something off: when put alongside a mission runner, a ninja salvager expends 10% of the effort, requires 5% of the training time, takes 3% of the risk, invests 1% of the equipment cost, and yet gains 50% of the profits. if you think mission runners have it too easy, what do you call the situation that salvagers are in?but you do get to keep what you kill; the module drops are yours. so why not the salvage? from a conceptual standpoint, they're the same thing, they just have different game mechanics stuck to them.it's not a \"gut feeling\"; wrecks do not come about unless somebody expends the effort to create them. the only justifiable reason for wrecks to be ffa that i have ever heard is that the salvaging profession depends on them. given that i am a man who looks for solutions to problems, i ask myself, is it necessary for the salvaging profession to hinge upon this? that is the basis of my proposal.you may want to double check your support: i removed the tractor beam proposal. besides that, making salvage owned makes missioning in highsec no more dangerous than cans being owned does."
"oh, that. there are two problems with that. one, it's entirely voluntary. two, a mission site that's been abandoned can't be probed out unless the mission runner is sitting in it or gives the bookmark to a salvager. you can't hinge a profession on the charity of others. the indifference and laziness, yes, but not the charity.as i said in a reply to mal, making wrecks flagable does no more to increase the danger of mission running than cans being flagable does. it's not about letting me shoot the guy, it's about the guy having to risk getting shot. it's not about helping me stop him, it's about keeping him from being unstoppable."
"~citation needed"
"the training time and isk cost are the big obvious ones; a salvage ship and the skills to train it will put you back a million isk at most. a good level 4 mission ship and the skills to fly it without getting yourself killed can easy put you back 100 mil, and that's just for a drake. the training time was a bit of a fudge and depends on how usable you want the ships to be, but the baseline for a scanning frigate with a salvager is a matter of days, a durable drake or raven is a matter of months. it does not take any great stretch of the mind to work out these numbers.\"effort\" is a bit more dicey and subjective, but a mission runner has to grind standings and manage agro and cap in the battle, all a salvager has to do is sit at a planet with his probes out and then fly around collecting free loot. also, have you seen the sig radius on a passive drake? it's pretty damned big. scanning down a mission runner is not a difficult process.\"risk\" is also a bit vague, but given the fact that in a multi-room deadspace pocket the salvager will typically go through a few empty rooms without enemies whilst being in a ship fast enough to warp off in a couple of seconds, i'd say they're at less risk that the guy taking a beating from all the rats. most of that 3% is actually from the green gas cloud in recon 3. also, a salvager can make up his entire ship cost in one salvaged battleship wreck (armor plates, tritanium bars, etc). if a mission runner loses his wreck, he's pretty heavily screwed unless he's got another 100 mil in the bank.i could make you a chart, but to be perfectly honest, if your own deductions and thought processes don't make it obvious to you, i doubt my graphs will."
"bump"
"you go rex!!"
"can you record the session and upload it to youtube i really would like to see what peoples arguments are in the session, i have a bad feeling some csm members are pro botting"
"i originally asked if i could (audio) record the sessions but was told no. the ccp note taker does video the sessions but those are unlikely to be released and are only used to assist with the ccp draft of the minutes (which the csm then add their notes to).a few of us will be taking notes so wait till the minutes come out"
"will do, i have a bad feeling about what i will hear tbh but i have hope, in the meanwhile i will be redirecting my rage on caod"
"caod rage, best rage.but on a more serious note - we do everything we can to relay both arguments and sentiments in the meeting minutes and i believe the csm can testify that editing/censoring on ccp's behalf is minimal."
"testifying to the truth of xhagen's statement. ccp may suggest edits and give reasons for wanting them; csm may agree or not. if we disagree and offer reasonable counter-arguments, the ccp edits usually don't happen. so far, there has been good communication and transparency between csm and ccp in collaborating on the minutes. besides, there is nothing for ccp to gain but bad press by attempting to censor csm summit meeting minutes. if they tried it, any non-nda info that csm felt should be communicated to players would be posted on our blogs, other forums, facebook, and twitter within seconds."
"adding to this the combat against all types of bots and macroers, rmt or not."
"sure: he's not trebor or mynxee."
"is csm supposed to represent the player base or their own individual interests because from your post it sounds like the latter.i'm with the captain."
"i too love my damnation, seems to be the popular command like an eom bcit seems like supercap blobbing has become an open topic, i think once botting is somewhat fixed blobbing will become the new fotmnow i dont mind people building or using supercaps i just dont like the idea that their used on subcaps often, like the c3n- battle the other day for example, what i would like to see is a mixture of caps and subcaps being used, i would like to be able to use my dread for a change, or be able to use my command or battleship without worrying about getting dd'd"
"can you record the session and upload it to youtube i really would like to see what peoples arguments are in the session, i have a bad feeling some csm members are pro botting"
"i originally asked if i could (audio) record the sessions but was told no. the ccp note taker does video the sessions but those are unlikely to be released and are only used to assist with the ccp draft of the minutes (which the csm then add their notes to).a few of us will be taking notes so wait till the minutes come out"
"will do, i have a bad feeling about what i will hear tbh but i have hope, in the meanwhile i will be redirecting my rage on caod"
"caod rage, best rage.but on a more serious note - we do everything we can to relay both arguments and sentiments in the meeting minutes and i believe the csm can testify that editing/censoring on ccp's behalf is minimal."
"testifying to the truth of xhagen's statement. ccp may suggest edits and give reasons for wanting them; csm may agree or not. if we disagree and offer reasonable counter-arguments, the ccp edits usually don't happen. so far, there has been good communication and transparency between csm and ccp in collaborating on the minutes. besides, there is nothing for ccp to gain but bad press by attempting to censor csm summit meeting minutes. if they tried it, any non-nda info that csm felt should be communicated to players would be posted on our blogs, other forums, facebook, and twitter within seconds."
"sorry to highjack this topic but it seems not nessecairy to make a new post expecialy for my question. would it be possible to point ccp on the slow progress of this issue when u or other csm members are at the summit next week?"
"i'm not going to be holding my breath while i wait for a good answer to non-rmt botting from ccp.while bots do hurt their game environment, those bots are paying customers (via plex), as is the host account. collectively, they also have the effect of artificially accelerating the market by acting as a fountain of both isk and resources; feeding supply while propping up demand. many players are not interested in a competitive sandbox game with a natural player driven market, and feel that their gaming experience is improved by the presence of bots, even if they only benefit indirectly.i find it ironic how quickly the gaming community gets behind the idea that rmt is an evil that is leaching the life from their game and should be stamped out, but so many player ignore or even support non-rmt botting; even though it has the exact same effect on the gaming environment.until the time comes that ccp's internal research says that the presence of bots costs them more customers than it gains them, i don't expect much of a crack down. by then, it'll be too late; if it's not already.there are a couple of questions i'd like csm to ask ccp, since there's no chance someone without an nda will hear the answers.how many accounts log 20+hrs/day, 7 days/week?this should be easy enough for ccp to answer, given some notice.how do those 23/7 accounts spend their time? % time mining/icing, ratting, mission running, or surfing the market vs idle time spent station spinning or floating in space.quite a bit harder, but it might be possible given some data mining.while these two things aren't absolute proof that any single account is botting, it should be a useful metric to determine how broad, or localized, the problem really is."
"flogging."
"doo eet"
"cosmeticas long as it only things that cant affect others, e.g. look of your avatar, char name change etc etc"
"no and no no changes i am not happy so far about the loss of learning skills i hope what ever comes oput of it is good and i miss some of the char pic optiions i used to play as a nouther char and i kind of liked the pic but i come on and again and i can't find how to make it again but no no changes"
"good god in heaven there is just so many ways i can say this;no, never, uhuh, negatory, no way hosay, no chance lance,absolutely not, oh an my all time favourite... old man ccp falling off a cliff..nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"no"
"the backlog and fixes would be the best release ever"
"supported. i want this even if it would delay incarna another year. i have to lower my screen res from 2560x1440 to 1920x1080 and it's still hard to read!"
"fight lag with lag?? what is this i dont even....hold on a second...this is so freaking crazy it just might work!!!joking aside, wholly cow, you are a genius, i totally support this, and in fact, fiction wise, lag has been explained this way, so implementiing it into fiction has already been done .furthuremore, this solution could be implemented while devs tackle lag, and when (or if) they eventually do, they wouldnt need to remove bullet time because it wont be activated!!this needs moar supports"
"supported in principle.if this is implemented, then all game logic will have to be internally calculated in terms of ticks and not seconds.for example, in a normal situation, ticks and seconds are the same thing, and if someone is firing a turret volley every 10 seconds at a battleship that's moving 250 meters per tick, then the battleship can cover 2.5 kilometers per volley.however, if the system is heavily populated and goes into \"bullet time\", then you don't want a situation where the battleship is still only moving 250 meters per tick, but the turret modules are still firing once per 10 seconds (rather than once per 10 ticks). let's say the lag is bad enough that the server needs to take 5 seconds per tick. if the battleship is going 250 meters per tick and the turrets are firing once per 10 seconds, then the turrets are firing once per two ticks. that battleship is now only covering 500 meters per volley being shot at it.making sure that module events get slowed down in proportion with destiny ticks might play merry havoc with the event scheduling, because now you have to manage a time axis that's different from the rest of tranquility. would a ccp developer like to explain whether or not this is actually a problem, please?so, yeah, supported in principle. i'd love to hear, though, if it's actually feasible."
"/support"
"supported, repairing your self with your own drones is simply intuitive, its just illogical that this isn't possible"
"a definite yes!"
"some good ideas here, but i don't know what the answer is, except that mining does indeed need sorting... until it happens, my wow playing friends are always going to have a wildcard to jab me with. but tbh that's the least of my worries with mining mechanics./support"
"most of your suggestion are aimed at penalizing group mining in favor of a single player mining alone.no thanks. removing static belts in favor of a large number of dynamic mining pockets isn't a low hanging fruit. the advantage of the static belts is that the asteroids are always there as far as the server is concerned, always in the same location, the only difference is that sometime they have size zero (when depleted). that way the server hasn't the need to plot the location of every asteroids every time a new mining pocket is spawned. it could certainly be implemented, but replacing each belt with several exploration sites in a way that will not make them disappear from the systems where they are regularly mined and \"migrate\" to rarely used systems and pile there in the hundreds (as it happens today with the explorations sites) is not something \"easy\" and done \"rapidly\", so it is far from a low hanging fruit. this change could give us a better eve for the single player (and a worse one for people that do corp level mining) but would require a lot of work to be balanced decently. no, the asteroid belt is mostly empty space, on that the op is right.wiki asteroid beltsnice tale, but what could work in a universe with 2.000 concurrent users don't work in a universe with 50.000 concurrent users. your miner d-scanning the asteroids would be picked in seconds by any guy with a probe hunting for ships and the drop in mineral production will push most players in frigates while the \"old guys\" with plenty of ships in the hangars would be the untouchable rich."
"isnt most of that already in planning by ccp?think i read a dev blog some time ago where they stated wanting to get rid of the static belts and only make them spawn as grav sites.would be nice to know in what stage that plan is."
"good ideas.mining is awful and boring. it'd be kinda cool if it wasn't."
"1.0"
"i too, wish that every region was filled with actual people who are ratting, exploring, mining, etc., the same people who form up gangs to drive off roamers, who lay traps and countertraps, who basically play ****ing eve."
"strongly, definitely, urgently supported."
"i support the investigation"
"is there a way to track a single isk? if so, find someone who has recently been caught with a lot of illegal isk and then just watch where it has been."
"supported"
"spank the botters."
"ok, 1st some back story for those of you out there not following this story for the past 3 years. everyone knows that part of why ccp hasn't really seriously looked into blasters is because they want them to be close range high dps weapons. but they also know they aren't working as well since the web and speed nerfs of the past. but, ccp has gone on record saying if they increase range it will no longer be a \"get in their face\" weapon, and if they increase damage they don't want to make a situation where it is too overpowered they feel the need to actually reduce tracking, thus making it useless again. if they increase tracking or falloff too much and reduce damage now it's an autocannon that needs cap. so what to do?i think that after talking about with my eve friend circle, i have found a good proposal to change blasters completely without them spilling over and fulfilling the role of an other weapon type, a real \"in your face\" style of combat.blasters as supercharged energy release 1st the rp. blaster work on the idea that you can get more damage out of a hybrid shell by super charging the energy and releasing it violently. this technique however severely reduces effective range. the reason for this is the energy in a super charged state dissipates quickly. however, the larger the target your shooting at, the farther away you can hit them with the full force of the weapon. like a shotgun!blasters as shotgunsok now the technicals behind this approach. blaster would have more damage with a slower rate of fire. blasters would be unaffected by optimal+falloff when checking hit% relying only on tracking. instead trading a decrease in accuracy based on range, to a decrease in damage. so in the old system if you had a 50% chance to hit you would miss or hit. now you'll deal about 50% of your total damage per shot, because 50% of the shotgun spread would contact the ship. sigradius and range would be the calculated at an exponential rate to find the sigradius of the weapon when it hits. rate of exponential decay would be based on your optimal/falloff. at close range the weapons sigradius would be start small enough to hit a frigate for full damage. at longer ranges it would be larger, dealing a % of the weapons total damage, based on the size of the target.small blaster 5,000m optimal range / 5,000m falloff / 31 sigradius /shooting at a small frigate, 35 sigradius in size 1st in row is range, 2nd in row is the blasters sigradius at that range, 3rd is rate of decay(how quickly damage decreases), 4th is damage output on frig sized target.0-3000m //////////////31 sig //////////// 0 decay rate (optimal) ////////////////////////// 100% of total damage taken frigates has a sigradius of 353,000m-7km/////////// 45.5 sig ////////// 0.5 decay rate (fallout) //////////////////////// 76.92%7km-11km /////////////76.5 sig ////////// 1.0 decay rate (fallout2) /////////////////////// 45.75%11km-15km ////////////122 sig /////////// 1.5 decay rate exponential at this point*//////// 28.68%15km-19km ////////////199.5 sig ///////// 2.5 decay rate ////////////////////////////////// 17.54%19km-23km ///////////339 sig /////////// 4.5 decay rate/////////////////////////////////// 10.32%see the damage is based on how big the spread is, which gets bigger as you get farther away. at 19km, you simply take the radius of the attack *339* and compare it to the size of the target *35* for a frigate or *400* for a battleship. bigger targets will still take full damage even at extreme ranges, since the shotgun blast has more to hit. in fact you would always do some small amount of damage as long as you can lock the target."
"so as you can see damage to a small target goes downs pretty fast, but unlike current blasters, you'll at least be able to hit! with the knowledge that if he cuts to close, or you overheat your ab/web and get within 5,000m you'll really start bringing the pain. this is part of the reason for the rof nerf, so if under blaster fire you would have time between cycles. also if you have some good logic, you'll notice these new weapons have the added benefit of being able to hit larger ships with smaller weapons for full damage at longer range. for example, the small blasters as shown above would deal full damage to a battleship at 25km, while only dealing 10% to a smaller target.and large blasters would be awesome. there would be a great reason to have the web bonus on a blaster ship, not for hit%, but just so you can close range.the closer you are, the more of your blasters plasma will beat his hull! note the numbers i used to show my math are only for concept. i do not claim to have any idea how to balance anything. i just noticed that without some kind of increasing decay rate, you would be able to hit ships at 50km with blasters for 50% damage without missing :pwell, what do you guys think? man it must be a good idea if my terrible math skills don't stop support. i think it's time after some final i just draw this up visually.see, this does 1 of two things, makes them fit into the same weapon type as autocannons, but they cost cap for some more dps. and suddenly medium blasters, and large blasters are tearing up ships that are smaller than what they should be allowed to hit. like someone else put it, internet grapeshot is the idea here. so even if your one meter away, your large shotgun blast will mostly go around a frigate/cruiser. but, at the same time, it will hit them. so maybe you could get some target painters, and go buck wild. instead of making it easier to hit a target, painters would just straight up make blasters deal more damage to smaller targets.also i tried to keep the weapon to stick to the same skills and stats of current turret weapons, because while it would be easier to design a weapon system from the ground up, that would mean all blaster pilots would suddenly have millions of wasted sp. and that's never going to happen, so i tried to work within the confines of the current variables."
"i won't lie, some of the math is a bit hard to follow; you may want to go over your post and simplify it or you won't get a lot of support. also, try to stay away from exact numbers and instead talk about basic concepts. i think ccp's designers get jealous when people try to do their jobs for them.that said.. the idea of blasters being \"shotguns\" that have their damage instead of their accuracy reduced by range is actually a really neat idea. it even fits the name. \"blasters\".supported!"
"heheh, i'm a terrible writer, but a great concept guy/artist. thanks for your positive feedback. i wish i could get the math across and make it simple to understand. maybe someone would be willing to help me out? *if only tarminic was around* edit: i like how you got it all in one sentence. thanks for your feedback! your spot on.'well that's true for missiles vs.turrets as well. in the end raw dps needs to be balanced. what makes this idea interesting is it opens new tactics for how to get said dps, or negate it. hmm... nah, this would just be a good reason to rebuff it's drone abilities, and reintroduce some variety in the dread lineup."
"support anything that will make ccp take a look at blastersbut if i understand you, you didnt do anything here, just changed the numbers a bityour idea: dmg is directly dependant on range ans sig.current starus: when shooting in fallof you sometimes miss reducing your damage over time.on your example, a blaster with 5k+5k range misses 50% of the time at 10km, so that means it does 50% it's total damage... your calculation is exactly the same, only it never misses, but does 50% less dmg each shot.so you didnt change anythingand since you made the \"decay rate\" exponential, using smaller guns against bigger targets dosent realy give you longer rangealso under current mechanics the sig radius determines the damage output, not directly like you suggests but target sig radius influences the chances of wrecking shots, perfect hits, and light hits or barely hits (whatever the name), and by changing chances you change dmg output over timeso actualy i dont see what change you propose, that cant be done using current mechanics, just by playing around and tweaking the numbersso my summary:pros: blasters make more rp sencecons: a lot of programing required by ccp, by making a third weapon math system, and no game change at the end"
"ok, i know i'm really bad at explaining. :p with current weapons, sig radius is like a multiplier for radians per second. chancetohit = 0.5 ^ ((((transversal speed/(range to target * turret tracking))*(turret signature resolution / target signature radius))^2) + ((max(0, range to target - turret optimal range))/turret falloff)^2) baiscly i want to take (turret signature resolution / target signature radius) and have that be fore damage instead. but the blasters signature resolution is based on range. a small blaster has a total range, including falloffx2, of about 13km. with the decay rate i used, it takes up to about 23k range your small blaster will still do full damage to a large target. your 100% right. however the issue with blaster come when your in optimal range. or outside of x1 falloff. when in perfect optimal range blaster boats have a hard time hitting the target. it's not 100% dps. it's based on the calculation i posted above. the closer you are the more the sig radius effects radians per second. i might not be 100% right on this, but my idea is to make blaster boats that catch a target and can close to 3000m, full damage potential, 100% of the time. your right it's not very different.maybe the iidea should be more to really push the optimal range in. it's about being able to deal more damage with blasters than current, but only if you can get close enough that your whole shell hits. currently there is always a 50% chance built in to miss, making blaster seperate form this, and making them the one system based on just getting to your target based on his size i think would be neat. but your right my idea might be a lot more rp, and makes more sense than function, i'm really tired to think right now ;p i swear i'm missing something :pbut as far as hitting at longer ranges, my change does work. it's basically like saying the weapons optimal range changes based on the size of the target. that at least, is what i was going for in a nutshell.edit: ok so i've thought about it more and basicly the math i'm using doesn't quite get the intended result, it needs more maths!it needs to do less than 50% when hit rate would of been 50%, but do 100 \"shotgun\" damage when the other ship is large enough. meaning, as long just the tranversal is right, and the range is right compared to his size. you do more damage then current.another fun ide would be blasters increase heat on the targets they shoot, but that's more of a pipedream :p"
"ed: click supportheh, this reminds me of a similar idea i had a while back.supported."
"edit : i do support this idea fully however gallente ships will still need to be made the fastest ships in game and get buffed by large amounts in other areas for example in fitting space (cpu grid slots etc) also gallente e-war sensor dampers need to be brought to 75% base damp amount but with increase stacking so that you can't get a 90% with two or three on one ship however 90% (per dampener) should be able on specialized ships like lachesis arazu and keres"
"this is a good idea."
"if this is all you want to do, just give blasters a massive tracking boost (or, equivalently, a sig res boost). far simpler."
"love the idea but not too sure on the ranges. but that is something to be deterimined on sisi i think. the overall concept is perfect. space cannon grapeshot is win.edit: forgot to support."
"i don't get the math but i get the concept."
"signed"
"buried in f&i.yay"
"this issue is so old, it already stinks. its known by ccp. just they fix everything else but not this.of course add me+1"
"agreed, it's a pain in the arse.now ccp states that it would add unneccesary server load to distinquish between the two blueprints,however why not have 2 types of blueprints in the first place?original blueprints, and copied blueprints. these could have individual icons, so that they would load just like any other ship / module / charge.creating a copy from an original would be almost exactly the same process for the server as building a ship. one item goes in, 2 items come out, the original and the copy.no need for any extra rows / columns in the table, just another type of item.edit: and to be honest, surely this would lessen the server load as you know which bpo to research without the server having to call for details on the 20 blueprints you've just had to show info on!"
"+1 for squishiness"
"i'm making a lot of proposals lately. i should run for csm or something.it is said that ccp do not like proposals that are too specific, that they prefer general sort of \"idea\" things to specific formulas. given how overdue this particular change is, i warmly invite ccp to shut up and implement the damned thing.w = anti-exploit multiplier. anything between 0.5 and 1 would do.x = market value of (ship + destroyed modules + destroyed cargo + rigs)y = insurance payout of ship (if insured)z = market value of implants + clone costif you destroy the ship of a player with a bounty, you get ((x - y) * w) isk out of the player's bounty.if you destroy the pod of a player with a bounty, you get (z * w) isk out of the player's bounty.is it perfect? no. but it's almost impossible to exploit and about a thousand times better than what we currently have. the hard part would be calculating average market values for every item in the game, but i'm pretty sure they already do that to obtain the insurance values of ships."
"i proposed pretty much the same thing :"
"well, that may be so, but it's still far better than what we've got. i'd rather \"exploitable in rare cases with a considerable amount of effort\" than \"exploitable all the time with minimal effort\".edit: also, keep in mind this is supposed to be a bounty fix, not a bounty redesign. i could write pages on things like kill contracts and transferable kill rights and bounty systems and what have you, but that's not why this is here; this is here to point out that there an incredibly broken mechanic that's got a simple (if not necessarily easy to implement) solution.the main reasons that bounty hunting isn't a viable profession right now are because a: any big bounties can just be farmed, and b: pods are practically impossible to catch unless they come out in a bubble. making bounties collectible for destroying ships does make bounty hunting a viable mechanic, because players, especially outlaws, lose their ships a hell of a lot more than they lose their pods."
"you are being too hard on the market abuse of the value of implants and pod kills. the value check would likely be a eve wide average, with exceptionally low and high prices removed. add the anti-exploit multiplier to that and it can't really be much of an issue. maybe when an implant turns from fotm to useless, since it wouldn't react to fast market changes, but on the whole it should work just fine.i think generally people want to see the bh system fixed, but since it isn't used currently and has been broken for so long, it isn't a critical matter for anyones gameplay. it is a thing that would be nice to have, but not a must and since ccp hasn't shown any interest in it for a long time people have given up on it. there is also the issue that this fix, while a good one on the first glance, won't alter anyones gameplay in any significan't way. it just removes the exploit mechanism and makes getting some of the bounty money a bit easier. it doesn't actually try to make bountyhunting something interesting or a profession where the bh can avoid sec rating hits or hunt people with bounties in highsec without concord interfering. if you want to get loads of people excited about bountyhunting, you are going to have to do something besides just fixing the basic exploit."
"the thing is that avoiding sec hits or hunting people with bounties in high sec without concord interfering has the unfortunate side effect of making the game unplayeable. very soon bounties go from \"bounty hunting\" to a tool of extortion on pretty much any industrialist or freighter owner.a substantial change on a lot of systems would have to be done for something like that to remotely work (for instance, no insurance for concorded ships, make sec rating mean more, make the cost of \"non concord intervention prohibitive come to mind) and we would end where we are now, just with esoteric systems that most don't understand and which are used to extort rather than have a \"profession\".i think for the time being fixing the exploit is the best we can hope so, and i assume that, exploit being fixed, if people accrued substantial bounties (since its no longer trivial to get them to 0), people would start actively trying to \"hunt them\".i don't think, whatever the eventual fix is, that it should work on high sec, especially if it involves no sec status hit. why?set a large bounty on freighter.. high value ship, so youll get the whole thing or most back (this is so target has a substantial bounty so that he can be bounty hunted!).turn off concord on that person\sec status hit, get a bounty license, or whatever the fotm esoteric \"make me bobba fett\" system ends up being.profit! get freighters contents, no concord/sec hit/whatever. repeat 20 times a day in jita for great fun.and that is why i don't support a more complicated \"fix\". i think if the basics are solved, the profession, if there is to be one, will follow. but as you said, fixing the exploit itself aint very exciting."
"it may not be very exciting, but ****, we have to start somewhere, and until we fix the basic exploitable nature of bounty hunting, we can't really do anything else to expand upon it. we can look into \"bounty hunting systems\" that are interesting and exciting after we get the basic existing system working, which is what this proposal is about.i know it's not the most exciting thing ever, but it really is a necessity if any future improvements are to be made, and at worst it's better than what we've got. even if you think we need more, if you believe this idea is good in and of itself, can i ask for your support for this proposal? i'm asking you personally."
"oh, sure. you don't have to convince me, i agree, as said in my thread which pretty much says the same thing (link above), i think this is the way to fix things.i favor ignoring pods (worthless) and implants (value is easy to manipulate, find an implant nobody uses, market manipulate it to something ******ed, and we are back where we started [or worse as you create a way to sell worthless/obscure implants for infinite]). that is why i propose it be solely tied to the value of the ship, and that that value is determined based on a eve wide mineral and component basket, which would render manipulation almost impossible (and if someone can succesfully manipulate the value of minerals/components/etc eve wide to play with bounties, they prolly deserve what they get).anyway, support fixing the current mess of a \"pod myself with my alt\" system we got."
"i've come to the conclusion that bounties are impossible to fix as lag in 500+ fleet engagements."
"another look at hybrids would be nice, please."
"please confront ccp on:bottersmacro miners/ratters/ecthackers/stolen accounts^thisi am pretty sure that encryption methods like pgp (pretty good privacy) will make a safe login."
"with the reluctance to beat a dead horse...rmt/bots/groups that benefit from it.it is very frustrating to sit here and know that there have to be better ways. the only difference between in game crime of this nature and organized crime in rl is that ccp has all the information in real time... this should make it easy. i've seen over time numerous people make suggestions related to tracking this activity and i know we have a lot of very smart people playing the game. the problem is that every time you post an idea on how to stop them, the botters/rmt start working on a way around it before ccp ever even can have a meeting about it.so here is my actual topic: i would like to see a non public means of making suggestions. almost like a bug report or petitions, i know the gms are over worked but in the long term this would help lessen the petitions. here is the idea: have a very small team of gms do an initial filter; remove spam, rants, etc. things like \"fix the _____\" with no actual suggestion for a fix. in addition they group all very similar ideas together and give a descriptive synopsis.next a sr. gm/jr dev looks through the list to see if anything is worth passing up. maybe a number rating system where 1 is a great idea and 5 is junk. these remain in the system so any additional similar ideas get attached to it. the lower the rating the less often is shows up in the queue for review. finally if an idea makes it to the table for the dev's they reach out to the player who submitted the idea. just based on the number of game related sites with hundreds of thousands of man hours spent coding them i'm sure there is a base that would spend a lot of time producing charts, graphs, and psudo-code on a volunteer basis to help.yes i know 90% of what gets put into this will probably never be actionable but if that 10% helps solve a problem just by think-tanking it they i feel it will be worth the effort."
"laughable hysteria in the face of unsubstantiated rumor-mongering is laughable hysteria in the face of unsubstantiated rumor-mongering.i have followed these wildly made assertions in the various fora, including that-which-shall-not-be-named and eve news 24, and there has been nothing even remotely approaching credible evidence tendered as yet. all this hubbub and posturing over....just _vapor_, in the absence of credibility. in fact, there has been nothing but hysterical, reactionary frothing at the mouth and posturing; forget about carefully applied reason.i'm not saying the threat of rmt can't be true, i'm not saying it's unlikely to be true, i'm not saying it's unfounded. but people are waaaaaaaay to ready to call something a fact, when, as yet, it is not. i mean, the magnitude of people's willingness to forgo credible evidence is really stunning me, here. people are shouting, \"eve is ruined!\" why don't we ask ccp for its version of the facts and what its factfinding methods are before we decide eve has an rmt problem.apparently, some in test might know what i'm talking about:"
"considering isk sellers are very vocal and bots are usually...not really vocal, the idea of a \"report bot\" button is not that great. the poor gm's would probably be wading their ways through piles and piles of reports for people that turn out to just be cases of them cloaking up in a system while afk or not wanting to talk in local.its a great idea on paper, but the chance that they system would be abused out the wazoo and be filled with reports with little actual substance is far greater than reports for isk-seller spammers."
"isk spammer is easy to check against logs.an extra consideration for a bot button to work, is that it would have to generate a text box for you to enter the reason why you suspect the character to be botting.not unworkable, but something to think about"
"having a one-click button to report botters would be good."
"instead, if ccp is worried about abuse, why don't they use their mods to authenticate the posted killmail link? if it doesn't match with server logs - then remove it. if it all checks out - let it stay.killmail discussion is part of eve"
"while i don't care one way or another it does seem odd that we can't post something generated by the game on the forum run by the makers of the game."
"well, for all i care, not being allowed to post a killmail under a battlereport in the \"crime and punishment\" forum is stupid."
"and tbh i agree 'but' as i said lately ive noted with factional wars a vast increase in factional missions against the caldari/amarr for example, i dont want to be a role player so i dont participate in factional wars,yes i agree you get offered these missions as part of doing missions for the fed navy for example, i have done missioning for about 6 to 8 weeks for close to 7 years and have been able to complete the offered missions and carefully manage the standings issues- however - there 'has' been a 'significant increase in factional missions, that none of the ocial skills can compensate for,ie i clone jump from 0.0 for a couple of days to have a rest and participate in a aspect of the game of 'missioning'tbh i earn next to nothing for my time but its a aspect that relaxes me and i enjoy,however i then get offered 5 or so factional missions one after another which i refuse as my standings with amarr/caldari after past missions are quite bad, i then lose my agent i kept refusing hoping i would at least get a singular non factional mission,now looking at my experience which i have to add 'ive never gotten that many factional missions in a row before' i feel im being forced to take part in factional warfare or as a consequence dont take part in missions, which is unfair (the frequency of factional missions have only been noted since fw)"
"again.if you don't want to risk to kill somebody specific, don't do kill missions."
"suppose with that train of thought, if you dont like the blaster nerf re-train all ur skills in laser, orif you dont like lag, dont participate in gang warfareif you dont like the way the drones do their own thing, dont use dronesor if you dont like participating in a discussion and cant see past your own blinkered view point then dont post on the forums.infact lets dont suggest anything at all and let the game in years correct itself,"
"you claim you have no choice. i'm just pointing out you are wrong.and here you are crying on about it, but not saying i'm wrong, so i'll guess you'll cry on and scream: \"i don't have a choice\"ed: - god damnit, know you made me troll you anyways. you have to admit, that when saying you have no choice, it's because you don't like the other choices you do actually have."
"as i said, it has to be prototype test for changing all 0.0 to no-local."
"ok idea is somewhat simple. remove ice belts and there creation of the isotopes and other \"ice\" products. replace it with a reactor system that allows pi users to use reactors to process materials into the needed isotope / materials. in order to create a setup that can support these system pi users would need to dedicate a colony to it hence on the command center there is an option to choose ether \"planetary materials\" or \"planetary reactor\".new buildingsreactor assembly  this is where the magic happens. the reactors cycle time is dependent on its temperature rating, the more cooling available the faster its cycle time due to higher maintainable temperatures.cooling tower  a large heat sync that uses massive pipes and large amounts of terrestrial coolant to pull heat from reactors. increases temperature rating to the reactor its attached to, allowing it to reach higher temperatures creating materials faster.high security launch pad/storage  similar in fashion to their normal counter parts these new modules are responsible for the storage of reactive and reacted materials, they possess larger storage capacities but are only able to hold the designated materials for the reactors and what comes from them. formulasheavy water  water+toxic metals isotopes- noble gas+reactive gas  you set what type of isotope you want but all use the same material. noble gas contains all 4 gases and the reactive gas helps the reaction alongstrontium clathrates water+ precious metalsthe formulas are easily modified i just set them as them made the most sense. i have purposely left out actual amounts required and produced so they could be discussed.pros -water worlds are know useful, as of the last check ocean worlds where the least popular colony type know they will sustain youre off world assets.-no more waiting a hour for 6 blocks of ice while you are board out of your mind-while you dont get the instant amounts of materials from refining 20000 blocks of ice you get a more stable supply cons -the few fleets who mine ice that are not bots are out of a job, -bots will move from a bot fleet to bot colonies, not affecting much but requiring them to do more work."
"cons:- remove something that can be done semi-afk to replace it with more clickfeast- remove a profession and related skills- remove the mackinaw from the list of useful ships- remove a lot of implants- remove macro from ice belts and place them on planets where they can't be touched (at least until the advent of dust)pro:- add a new profession with a new set of skills.not worth the work"
"cant support this because youc can only do reactions in low sec and 0.0 and anyone with a high sec pos would get screwed over with cost because they no longer fuel their own pos."
"where did i ever say that this was the same thing as pos reactors, i didnt. you can place theses anywhere you could put a colony"
"the basic idea of producing the products using pi is good. the implementation what i have an issue with. how about instead of a new colony type there is just a new facility that can be placed on certain types of planets? this facility would have the schematics helium isotopes, hydrogen isotopes, nitrogen isotopes, oxygen isotopes, heavy water, and strontium clathrates."
"the idea will be to make salvage material t2 with salvage material t1bpo - intact armor plate need to build : 35 armor plate (qty is for the example only)"
"tbh why not go all the way make it an industrial skill like salvage reconstruction then the bpos might need a tiny ammount of other stuff ie intact armour plates bporequires x armour plates, tiny dose of trit maybe a little something else, then professionals can train the new skill and do it efficiantly"
"."
"the t2 salvage market is pretty much fine. not supported."
"maybe you have no clue what a tengu is the legion isnt far behind either..."
"1. then scan down the logistics ship? 2 & 3. link an anti-scan fit that can solo a lvl 5. and keep in mind, lvl 5s have neutralizer sentry guns.4. when u have other ppl in pvp ships as well, it's pretty safe and definitely has less risk than a billion isk pve pinata but i guess gate guns r the reason why gate camps don't exist anymore huh?i don't even have the sp to fly a t3 myself but thx for trying."
"1. the logistics ship is also unprobeable. occasionally they have a smaller hit signature than the t3's.2. i never said once they were solo'ing it but going in two's and sometimes blitzing them with 3+. it becomes easy to get more gank from an unprobeable t3 once you aren't the one tanking and instead having someone rr you. 4. you are still saying you are flying faction or officer fit t3's into low-sec, and i am telling you that is far from the case. instead a simple t2 fit will get the job done and becomes faster, and more profitable when someone is helping you tank and putting out more gank."
"i love pirates, they're so funnythey whyne all the time how they cant find targets because noone goes into losec because there everyone is a target, not a playerand when someone gets the balls, isk, friends and an idea how to go into losec pirates start crying waaagh, nerf, nerfin short, you missed them at the gates, you missed them at the station, and youre whyning because you cant drop on them when they are most voulnerable- you do know they have to get out of that system eventualy?also, lvl5's are tough, a slightest mistake there costs them a very expencive t3, a slightest mistake on the gate also, actualy a slightest mistake anywhere costs them bilions... so you claim that it can be done with 2 or mote t2 fit t3s.. there that's still a bilion isk, without officer mods plus another 2-3 logis... that's another half bilionso they are risking a minimum of 1,5b jumping through gates, and that same ammount doing lvl5's in crap fits, where any slightest mistake costs them all of that, and the reward is, what 30m? 50m? that is way too much risk and effort for that ****ty reward for me, but not for someone else aparremtly, and your still whyning about it"
"1. did u ever try catching the logistics ship at the gates? they're nowhere as slippery as t3s but they still have to go through gates too, u know... honestly, do we have to do all the thinking for u?2 & 4. yes, those r the benefits of fleeting and as such, your targets can utilize it too. or do u think that they should not be allowed to fleet while u should? because a team is only as strong as its weakest link, which goes back to #1. time to engage that mod in your head for once..."
"1. it is pretty easy to avoid gate camps, all you need is a scout... wow... a cloaking t3 sounds perfect for that job doesn't it!?missing them at the undock? there are only a few stations in even where they are out kicked out of docking range by the 30 second session timer, as stated before you are invulnerable when undocking for 30 seconds if you do nothing. so 'missing' them on the undock is a moot point.2 and 4. fleeting is the bread and butter of eve combat, my issue is not with the fleets. my issue is with the invulnerability of it all. even if they were probeable anyone paying attention should never be caught by pirates. the issue arises when you want to have invulnerability to run these missions. for every way to catch someone, there is a way to combat it. however, there is no way to catch someone who is unprobeable in a mission unaligned to any planet. the majority of the time the level 5's are kept within system so jumping through gates is a rare occasion."
"the numbers i have seen running level 5's in my area have been 4 tengu's and 1 basilisk (one group), a double tengu duo, a proteus tengu match up, triple tengu, a tengu legion match, and a double tengu legion match. you are saying slightest mistakes? really? how hard is it to remote repair someone? the reward pays off in time especially when you are invulnerable to being caught and blitzing through a level 5 mission in minutes."
"1. which results in no logistics, no lvl 5. and if u stop either the t3 or the logistics at the station as well, guess what--u've just stopped his \"cash flow\" in either case. u want killmails that badly, go farm an alt.2. no--invulnerable is when a pos enters reinforced mode and no amount of dmg will bring it down. a gimp, destructible fit that costs 10-100x more than what u're risking that still requires logistics is far from invulnerable, especially when #1 still applies. it's too bad that stopping him from missioning is not enough for u but like i said before, if u're that desperate for killmails, go farm an alt."
"1 you are right, but this is becomming less of an issue of an in game mechanic and more of an argument about semantics. i do want to catch them, i don't want to make it easy to catch them, but i do want the chance of catching them. 2. these set up do not require logistics, i just said that some run with them and some don't, often times it is just a pair of t3's blitzing the missions which definitely does not stop them from farming it without any danger of being caught in their mission. your baseless assumptions show how out of touch you are with the subject, come back when you have done the research and looked at both sides of the story"
"support overheat cloak fix, but the unprobeable issue needs to be looked at with a fine-toothed comb"
"i fully support the first idea (but it needs its own thread). as for the second idea.... lol... this is not supported. i think the carebears that pony up the isk and risk to do level 5 missions in lowsec can keep their unprobable ships."
"completely agree with both points. there should always be a counter measure, or maybe they should give pirates a ship that can roam into highsec without having concord on their asses. considering concord is our main highsec threat. just as pirates are carebears main threat! im sure you carebears would be the first to complain then! :) plus 1 from me for both points."
"the only reason why a missile can be selected in space is to be there so that defender missiles can swat them down. defender missiles never get used in pvp. ever. so change missiles to be an animation like lasers and bullets. maybe we can actually see them deploy from their missile bays on ships and have less lag."
"been suggested before but still encounters one problem , no missile in any game , or real life for that matter ever has gone in a straight line towards its target if the target is moving. hence each missile is more or less a small drone thats fast , has a shiny but, and dies when it reaches its target, its essentially the approach command in over drive. if you could come up with a way to change this then your idea may happen, but i'm afraid that 1/4 of eve probably likes how missiles are now. the only thin i can think of is making missiles into energy torpedo's, they still take time to reach there target but run along a line from your ship to your opponents"
"firewalls mean missiles need to have ehp,but still remove defender missiles or make them worth somthing"
"no, defenders can only be shot at missile heading towards you. they are not the reason they need to be updated for everyone, that would be smartbombs."
"requirement: show the actual time in different timezonesreason: corps often have members in several time zones, transforming times with different daylight saving times is cumbersome.the lower left corner has enough screen real estate to allow showing the actual time of several (1-4) different timezones. (different designs are feasible to distinguish the timezones: e.g. small country flags)"
"sorry, i forgot that eve uses that horrible fake time. modern man is surrounded by clocks, is it really that hard to look at the clock on your desktop? or a wall clock, phone or watch? .. who am i kidding, people don't wear watches anymore."
"actually. eve use the coordinated universal time (utc). that is, the time all other timezones are defferent to regardless of time savings. it could be claimed that this would be the real time.other than that it should use gmt. (greenwich mean time)and no. i don't want the ingame clock to be different depending on timezone.why don't you just coordinate according to utc like every sane person does, (i know every corp i have ever been in did this) instead of complaining about something that really bears no impact."
"i want to have the time of several timezones displayed concurrently.why: because utc gives you no feeling about how long the italian players in your fleet will still be online. if you can read in the corner of your eyes that it is close to midnight in italy, you know that they will leave soon.memorizing that it is -6 hours between you and italy does not help you because due to daylight saving this difference might change during the year. and do not think that daylight saving time starts or ends at the same date at you place and italy..."
"ah... i get it.in that case. supported."
"you can just say how long ur fleet will be going..also ask ppl what time it is there and how long they are available.and learn to know the people you fly with and you know their playing hours.don't see a point of such a clock other than ppl being lazy"
"agreed, this is a cosmetic item.however, it is reasonably cheap to implement, has no impact on game mechanics, creates no lag and is a pure client side gui thingy."
"au contraire- yes it does apply armor and shields please read the op closely before sticking said foot in mouth."
"lol,guess i did about the armor/shield tanking reference. most have been the \"star trek\" reference that got me.but my second opinion still stands \"i don't think this solution really fit's in the eve universe, imho.\"cheers!dardol"
"they already have this it's called overheating your active resists"
"ive been thinking about creating a similar proposal, so supporting this is a no brainer.id like to elaborate on some of your points.i think its fair to say the current missions have had their day. while i think the tutorials and level 1 epic mission arc act as a good introduction to eve, after a couple of months, running missions becomes a isk making grind.the epic mission arcs are great in establishing eve lore, so there is certainly a place for them; however a dynamic mission system would go a long way to resolving many structural problems with eve. the static nature of missions makes them prone to macro users. the current missions also exacerbate the divide between pve and pvp fits. since a player currently knows in advance what they will meet, they can tailor their build to suite which takes a lot of the challenge out of a mission.id like to see a mission system where the descriptions are fairly short and generic; e.g. pirates reported in this sector. search and destroy. the generic description allows the content to be far more random. id hope that the new ai could be used, so that the emphasis is on the quality of the targets and not the quantity; this would partly address mining with guns issue.i think it would also be wise to make the mission reward scale according to the popularity of the agent, the more popular agents giving less rewards (why pay 10,000 isk, when someone will accept 5,000); i believe this would boost low sec.i see no reason why a player couldnt select from a number of types of mission e.g. search and destroy, mining, courier etc. again, each mission type could have its reward scaled according to their popularity (this could make rarely done missions quite lucrative). throw in a bit of escalation, with random optional content spawning, and i think eve would have a much more exciting universe.the shift from static content to dynamic would give far more flexibility for ccp to expand the game, more finely balance the all important isk to risk ratio, while battling the macroing isk farmers."
"while i agree entirely with this, without hesitation, i think it's such an epic task that it's unlikely to happen.as was pointed out, sandbox is eve's best aspect - this is stuff that alreayd is system based, and doesn't need much work, from my point of view. what this proposal is about is the other stuff. missioning beign the easy example. i personally spend alot of time missioning right now, trying to establish isk reserves so i can do the stuff i actually enjoy (pvp and fighting sansha.) and as we're all aware, it's mind numbingly boring. mining is even worse, of course.i don't know how to fix it (given that part of the problem is inherent to the way combat works and the 1 second tick of destiny - ie: lock target, orbit, fire, wait, repeat.) but dynamic content is absolutely a correct move.however, as i said - what this is basically suggesting is rebuilding or worse, building from scratch new systems (not star systems, of course) from scratch. i think we all recognize the long temrcommitment and inherent complexity of this."
"i could support the drone bay increase, but never the bandwidth. it would homogenise the hulls too much.the extra slots would also remove variation, as slot layout is one of the things that influences ship choice. how would this work for the navy versions? their upgrade includes more slots than their t1 version. a navy mega already has 8/4/8, navy domi has 6/6/7"
"just a quick idea to provide that niche back to battleships as opposed to cruiser classes and lower.1.5x base range (optimal + falloff) of all large guns (xl as well?)1.5x bs hull base sensor range."
"i'm not sure if this is the right kind of boost. certainly it greatly benefits long range combat - which bs already dominates.what about the disruptor range combat? the 20km radius?sensor range would change nothing. optimal/falloff boost would mostly help put blaster boats where ac people are today, with greater damage.i want bs to receive some advantage when fighting in 20km radius. either flat 10% damage increase for all large guns, or extra 1 slot. or just give bs 20% extra hp - to differentiate them better from bc.none of this changes how easy it is to tackle and blob a battleship tho. i suppose those disadvantages come with the role. if nanos weren't nerfed so bad bs wouldn't have this problem today.altho on second thought, i hate how over the years the tanks have increased much more than damage output. when tanking/damage ratio is large, it encourages blobbing. increased damage/tank ratio is best way to reduce blobs in eve. cause even when it'd fleet vs fleet, in that scenario the whole fleet won't be shooting 1 target at a time. actual damage exchange will be done with less ships."
"my only quam with injectors is that they arent a medium or lowslot mod, they are very biased against shield tanks which also cant fit low slot cap mods without losing tank or mid slot cap mods wihtout losing tank.armor tanks get cap rechargers and injectors shield tanks get pds's why not give them a low slot variety of injectors.mid slots are a rare commodity on shield tanks as you gotta tank and tackle and if your active tanked inject."
"taken from another topic i made.the general gist is that while i can overheat a module (without activating it), and cloak while retaining its overheated status. i cannot overheat a module preemptively while cloaked. it seems a bit silly and is more of an annoyance than anything since you still can have an overheated module ready to go when you uncloak you just have to uncloak, overheat, then cloak again."
"needs my support. i also suffer from ctrl-double click rage!!!!!"
"not supported i need this to do this."
"i noticed that there has been no attempt to ask the community what we want in a forum. the csm should pressure ccp into starting at official player request thread where we can tell ccp what we want to see in a new forum/custom assembly hall. the point of this proposal is to have the csm pressure ccp into asking us for some feedback/opinions on what we want in a new forum. because as far as we know, it's coming out in little over a month from now, and i don't remember them asking us what features we would want out of said new forums."
"hi,i have just started looking at the alliance and corporation recruitment center section of the website to look for my first corp and i have to admit that it is truly awful.it is a complete mess.is there any chance it can be divide into sub sections.for example..high sec missioning0.0 pvppiratespeople who advertise themselvesetc etcetc etc"
"24 reads .. hmm, maybe this idea's too advanced for it's time ..or no one understood what it means ... or they understood exactly, but chose to let it die and bury it asap oh well ... *sigh*1 support at least."
"makes sense."
"the pros appear to out weight the cons."
"ok made a post about this about 6 months ago and plp though it was an interesting idea , haven't seen anything close to it for a while so figured id bring it up again.the idea is simple to the best of my knowledge ever racial ship in the game uses a different form of power , ie minmitar use nuclear reactors, caldari use micro singularity's( black hole) , amarr use antimatter, and gallente use fusion. the rest of the idea is simple when a ship of a certain faction is destroyed instead of a generic \"boom\" there is a racial specific effect. such as caldari = a distortion effect similar to the blip when you gate jump that makes the ship look like its being crushed by its own black hole core before finally letting off some sort of eruption ending at the wreck amarr = since ammar use antimatter cores why not have the ship begin to crack over its hull and then explode in a inverted color spectrum energy ballminmitar would get an over sized dual mushroom cloud that every one can identify with gallente = an explosion similar to the one the deathstar in star wars gave off, a large shock wave effect with a high powered explosion."
"so are high sec systems surrounded by low sec. i have my home base in one. gives me a nice place to run my production planet, move a little cargo, build and sell product, do a few missions or mine a little when i don't feel like wanting to look over my shoulder all the time. ( or there's a 50 man fleet sitting in nullsec 2 jumps out from my high sec crib)"
"1) go to quiet lowsec system2) wait on gate for carebear to jump in to do a mission/mine/pi/[etc] since he/she thinks its ~safe~3) ???4) profit...i see nothing wrong here.also, considering that most of aridia is lowsec, its no wonder theres another lowsec system there.and moh is just funny. think of all the poor ice miners that go there and realize they have to haul back through lowsec."
"devblogas expected it is nothing more than \"we dont like rmt, buy plex, rmt is wrong, buy from ccp. as for botting, well that is something we struggle with\".thanks to your devblog ccp allow me to tell you what has happenedthe devblog gets mentioned in a chat with alot of well-known players from 0.0, after a few mins of linking you got a flood of 'lolz', with cheers to ccp allowing botting indirectly because we find it very hard to spot botters is pretty much exactly what botters expected and wanted to hear.in short ccp, it doesnt matter what your plans are about rmt, in case you havent noticed any smart person would buy a bot instead since it is cheaper and brings in unlimited isk. it doesnt matter what you write anymore or what you plan to speak about at the summit (no doubt rmt <yawn>), that devblog alone has literally branded eve online with the slogan \"a game where botting is allowed because we struggle as a company to fix problems\".thanks to your devblog botters now have more confidence than ever botting, if anything your devblog promoted botting and now after it has become common knowledge of the problem all you guys have done is said what you have for the past several years \"rmt is bad, botting is hard to detect\".once again thanks for the green light on botting!"
"humm interesting statement yours... let me guess what are your individual interests:about the 1st proposal (removal of local on null and lowsec)1st- continue to treat null and lowsec like high-reward low-risk highsec, so removing the \"all seeing\" local is bad for you2nd- continue to bot/macro in null/lowsec... so removing the \"all seeing\" local is bad for you.about the 2nd proposal (tactical environments): i don't know why you don't want them...about the 3rd proposal (fight against bots/macroers):unless the majority of eve player base is using macros, i don't see your problem... unless...personally i'm delighted that people like you come here and state that they won't vote for me... can i have better publicity than that?!tks alot"
"yes they did require the tier1 learning skills to be at lvl 5 at one point. i remember being not so pleased as one of my characters had just finished getting the tier1 skills to lvl5 when it was announced. and as such the characters that did have to train them to 5 have more sp that will be reallocated. aka no problem."
"devblogas expected it is nothing more than \"we dont like rmt, buy plex, rmt is wrong, buy from ccp. as for botting, well that is something we struggle with\".thanks to your devblog ccp allow me to tell you what has happenedthe devblog gets mentioned in a chat with alot of well-known players from 0.0, after a few mins of linking you got a flood of 'lolz', with cheers to ccp allowing botting indirectly because we find it very hard to spot botters is pretty much exactly what botters expected and wanted to hear.in short ccp, it doesnt matter what your plans are about rmt, in case you havent noticed any smart person would buy a bot instead since it is cheaper and brings in unlimited isk. it doesnt matter what you write anymore or what you plan to speak about at the summit (no doubt rmt <yawn>), that devblog alone has literally branded eve online with the slogan \"a game where botting is allowed because we struggle as a company to fix problems\".thanks to your devblog botters now have more confidence than ever botting, if anything your devblog promoted botting and now after it has become common knowledge of the problem all you guys have done is said what you have for the past several years \"rmt is bad, botting is hard to detect\".once again thanks for the green light on botting!"
"actually if you think about it, everyone who did not max out learning skills gets 2 bites at the cherry.1 bite = getting back the skill points2 bite = getting faster learning times.those of us that maxed learning skills only get 1 bite1 bite = getting back the skill pointsthen we get a little kick in the nuts because we will actually now train sloweredit was to insert a = sign i missed"
"those of us who trained heavily into learning skills already took one bite of the cherry by having faster training times for the last few years. we're getting a second bite by getting the sp invested in learning back to invest in something else now.now the only differentiator will be attribute implants. once those are gone, there will be no need to fear pvp since we won't be losing training time while in non-implanted clones."
"they did fix rockets in a mere 2.5 years. i'm sure by 2014 they'll take care of botting.put differently: even ccp knows that ice mining is so goddamn boring that if they banned all the macrominers and it paid 300m or 500m an hour instead of 30-50, people still wouldn't do it in sufficient quantity to fuel all the poses in the game. this would obviously have effects that cascade over into reactions/moongoo/t2 ships (who would make carbides if a pos cost 3x to run?) and it might cause players to disengage from the game. see, also pi, asteroid mining, and ratting. these effects are probably difficult to quantify, particularly in advance, and are therefore unpredictable.that said, i think aggressively banning macros is the correct way to go. the primary goal should be to engage players in the game and capture their attention, and it's particularly critical to do so for newer players. if an aspect of the game pays like dirt and is monotonous and uninteresting, non-bot players will avoid it, and big patches of the sandbox essentially get closed off. the longer-term solution should be to make the game fun and interesting so that it could be possible for someone to be excited to run an ice mining op (like in the new trailer) without being mentally ******ed. relative risk/reward is one piece of that puzzle, but it's not the only piece.if ccp has certain price levels in mind for boring-to-produce goods (ice, morphite, pi) then they can do what the federal reserve or bundesbank does and just print money. generate 50 million topes out of thin air and sell them to buy orders in jita. for all we know, they already do this.bots are such a fundamental part of the economy at this point that ccp thinks they are forced to tolerate them, because they don't know what would happen if they made a serious effort to get rid of them. they don't seem to realize that inaction can be as risky as taking the wrong action. this may be due in part to their european corporate culture. in any event, it's a shame.agreededit: while i appreciate the levity and think trebor is super, is it too much to ask for an honest and straightforward response from the player reps on where they stand on this issue?"
"hey guys i will be updating this thread again after the csm summit this week. i am going to harass, i mean ask the csm which hot issues were brought up there and what is on the priority list.so expect an update post christmas. yeah i know thats in a while but still, i am reviewing stuff and trying to determine which will be added to the list.edit: crowd sourcing vote is done, just leaving the link up for informational purposes only.edit 2: added on corp chat / alliance chat motd's to the list."
"hell yes."
"vectors for ships - cooltactical detail overlays for selected targets - nice360deg sphere background mapped on the skybox for tactical display - now we're cooking/supported"
"too complicated and overkill.what you want on tactical overview is your position relative to others and where they're heading. everything else like transversal/radial will come with experience from looking at this and with this comes your knowledge about tracking abilities."
"good idea, but it would get awfully messy with just 10 people per side .. poor display would look like a game of mikado (pick-up sticks for you yanks).perhaps:1. limit it to one selectable ship size at a time, or2. limit it to ships travelling faster than you.personally in favour of #2 as it adds to ability to spot when someone makes a mad-dash for something/someone."
"maybe show all this stuff for targeted ships only"
"+1i like pi and 'shiny new features' but this is a great point to this: many existing features in the game need fixing, be they basic outdated graphic problems (like missiles falling out of the middle of ships?) or balancing trouble (can we collectively s"
"i would just like to point out, in case ccp is actually reading this;i would pay for an expansion that fixed existing game content!so there it is ccp, you can bill me for $50-$100, if you fix the \"hot list\" in the next few years. and i am sure i'm not the only one..."
"yes"
"bump."
"agreed because the 'star trek' look of missiles currently is a bit 80s... and if it can reduce lag then fabbo"
"why not?"
"this is an interesting idea but the whole universe would have to slow down. eve is influenced by all areas and you cant have other area moving at full speed and one area moving in slow motion."
"actually you can, but you'd have to make sure player skill points don't slow down, and all the production going on in outposts and moon mining has to keep same rate. only combat has to slow downanyway, it's all possible if designed with proper frame work. but that's not how eve is designed. and changing the frame work is ****loads of work."
"tl;dr. but your proposal is that you have fixed lag?well done."
"kind of a bandaid solution, but a solution nonetheless."
"moving the belts to grav sites that are \"static\" to the system will be necessary to move away from the requirement for dt to reseed asteroid belts - unless the belts are reseeded at random times through the day, so all the macros need to do is keep warping to the belt and sucking up the new rocks as they appear.why do you say that? requiring the mining fleet to have a dedicated scout due to the pockets of ore only sustaining six hulks for half an hour, would seem to me to be an ideal situation for corp-based activity. get the rookie out with his probing ship checking out all the mining sites while the hulk pilots are pillaging rocks.i remember the days when deadspace was actually \"dead\" and not only could you not warp into it, you would have a harder time probing into it too. perhaps we need to reintroduce \"deadspace\" in order to make lowsec mining a little less like suicide? there are no warp disruptor bubbles in lowsec, so there's no way to lock down systems."
"so we will be trading static belts for static grav sites? what will be the difference? static is static, bookmark the site and it will be there forever.and why you think that static grav sites would be better that static belts for dt? not the op proposal. \"a dozen rocks\" will last 1 cycle or 2 for 6 hulks and will make not worth it to warp the orca to the belt. that guy wasn't speaking of deadspace. having the gravimetrics (an other exploration sites) in a area of deadspace dampening the ship signature could be useful, but the problem is always static vs dynamic. if it is static the player need to find it only once, then it will be bookmarked and any protection will be lost. if it is dynamic the mechanic for seeding them should be redone as currently they have the tendency to cluster in unused systems and to shift toward the less interesting kinds of exploration sites. for those that aren't aware of that mechanic: when you despawn a site a new, random, kind of site respawn in a random system with the same security status and the same kind of npc rats. as people generally complete only the \"good\" sites and leave alone those that aren't interesting to despawn in 3 days the effect is that:1) if initially there were 1 site each in 10 systems and 5 systems are explored regularly while the others are explored very rarely after 1 cycle of exploration the statistical distribution will be: 5 (often explored) systems with 0.5 sites each and 5 rarely explored systems with 1.5 sites each, after 2 cycles it would be 0.25 and 1.75 and so on. the 3 day despawn rule will mitigate this a bit but there is a noticeable tendency for the exploration site to cluster in less used systems. 2) the kind of sites follow the same trend. they shift in the same fashion toward the less interesting sites."
"i've often wondered why mining missions given by mining corps dont give missions which are sites with more ore than that required to complete the mission.mining missions and especially mining missions from npc mining corps, should give missions sites with ore to mine in excess of that required for the mission objective. if its a storyline mining mission and especially for a npc mining corp, and even moreso if its a faction storyline, there should be ore at the mission site to mine.i switched to mining combat mission sites rather than belts.as long as ore/sec status ratios dont change, anything to improve mining would be good."
"like it. wish there was already a system in place to make asteroid rings around planets/stars possible."
"static' can mean 'fixed in space' or 'same content'and the op clearly states that he would prefer a system of rules for the creation of content above static content anytime.the discussion about technical aspects of this are moot anyway as we have no clue how the server keeps track of all of this. the whole belt could be a ball with several stats that represent the roids, or each roid could be a ball by itself. or nothing of this applies. who knows.. besides ccp that is.probably as gravimetric sites can be spawned any time and static belts only spawn during downtime and ccp said for migrating eve to a 24/7 system they need to figure out a way for the belts and their dt spawn mechanic. whether this was meant technical or game design wise is open to interpretation i guess"
"if we start from where the world is today, my thoughts are that static belts should be veldspar only, and only in noob systems, and too small to be useful to regular miners.the rest move to scannable grav sites, that appear as the anomalies (like the static complexes today) within 5au of a planet. so you want to mine? undock in any ship, warp to a planet, hit the system scan. wait 30 seconds, get a list of grav belts and other complexes within the 5au of the planet.bookmark them.redock - get into your mining barge, warp to your first bookmark.survey scan to see the best density rocks to hit, target and go.so you want to rat?warp to a planet, hit the system scan (or launch some scan probes).find the belts, bookmark them and start bouncing.so you want to hunt ratters/miners?warp to a planet, hit the system scan (or launch a scan probe at max au).find the belts, bookmark them and start bouncing.i will admit this makes it easier for the attentive miner to gtfo before getting ganked, since you can't just enter local and warp to a belt - that makes it less ideal for the easy gank squad unfortunately.i don't see how adding 60 seconds to your mining activity at the beginning is so detrimental to the mining career - and i have a mining alt as well..."
"supporting.it be nice to know your trying to kill bots."
"personally, i think they don't care. occam's razor, yknow.but it'd be nice to be wrong."
"i would urgently like to see some solid evidence from ccp about their stance on bot's and what exactly (if anything) they intend to do to eliminate their widespread use throughout the game.it feels to me as if the very image and reputation of the game is being tarnished by the widespread use of bots. it makes the game less special to play knowing there are many people out there making 200x what you ever could because they are using macros."
"they already made a blog, they pretty much said, \"detecting bots is hard so we will focus on rmt\".as you can see, more is written about rmt and how buying plex is better, a fraction of the blog is about how they cant do anything about botswhen this was posted in a channel with alot of known players, people laughed and congratulated ccp for not doing anything against bots, little do people know that last week botters were pretty worried and actually thought ccp were going todo somethingnow botting will be stronger than ever, anyone stupid enough to buy isk when they can farm isk ultimately with a risk free bot deserves to get a reversal & ban.like it has been said over and over, change mining & ratting to make it less boring, which you promised in fanfest 2009 anyway."
"dude! awesome idea...now blasters are like the plasma torps from original star trek episode \"balance of terror\""
"i really like the concept, primarily because while it doesn't increase raw dps, it increases the usability of blasters. i also think it would give blasters (and hopefully similarly fixed railguns) a real niche to work in as hybrids would become the only turret system that doesn't miss (or at least not very much). it makes sense for the type of gun it is, and it makes sense for gameplay. supported.btw, my only possible concern about it is that it makes motion prediction seemingly obsolete for blasters unless i'm missing something, but then again that's not really a downside so much as it would simply be part of the new mechanics. ;)"
"i think the idea is it removes sigradius and chance from the tracking equation. so if your tracking is 30 radians per second, and they are moving faster than that, you will miss. if they are moving sower than that, then you hit 100% of the time. so instead of a % chance to hit, it's either hit or miss. which is kinda awesome.supported."
"another way of looking at it would be a directional smartbomb.after all, if you let off a blunderbuss or a shotgun, it doesn't matter how fast something is moving, it's still going to get swiss-cheesed if it flies through the general arc of effect. so no, either hitting or missing and removing the hit chance from the equation would not be a good idea.the problem with this approach is that large blasters would be devastatingly effective point defense guns all of a sudden, which would lead to gallente ships being suicide to attack in frigates and cruisers."
"you have my shotgun."
"please gimmie a reason to train blasters."
"just commenting on this part of your post. your forgetting that the weapons start at their base sig resolution. so a battleship could never hit a frigate for more than 10% of max damage. and it would also have to able to track you. the closer you are, the faster your transversal is. and your forgetting that small blasters would be able to hit a battleship outside of web range. and the farther away you are, the less damage you take.so the numbers should be balanced to make it so a frigate webbing a battleship at 10km would take 5-10% of the battleships guns, but only if the frigate is moving under the battleships tracking.i would trust ccp to actually balance the math right, but i think the idea is that small ships could avoid most of the large weapons fire, even if they were sitting still.edit:also maybe a tracking disruptors could be made to have a greater effect on just blasters?"
"heck yea, that would be awesome :d(sniper shotgun rokh... do want!)"
"so basically you sacrifice ability to do great damage against small targets that aren't moving much (traverse matched or strong webbed), but gain ability to do better damage to large targets outside 10km?seems like blaster frigs would benefit most, blaster cruisers possibly a little better off, and blaster battleships get totally shafted.either way, it's hard to anticipate full impact of such game changing ideas without seeing working prototype on sisi. there are just too many variables that with some tweaking produce significantly different results.also, i don't believe this is the type of idea on which ccp cares to act. the changes are too radical. tho they have been known to do radical ideas that come from their own people - the great nano nerf. but i never seen any significant player ideas get implemented. we have to settle for minor tweaks or something completely new that doesn't replace core parts of the game."
"i like your idea, but i dont think ccp will go for it. why? this might give blasters an absolute dps chance vs. frigates. this is a huge advantage. even if it is only 10%, 10% of a 5000k volley is 500 damage vs. a frig who's ehp is around 5000 at best. cruisers and battleships will tear frigates to shreds. ideally, the mechanics of the game would stay the same, but rather evolve blasters more into artillery. blasters become a really high-volley, low rof, weapon for the short range zone. this'd give blasters atleast some advantage as they can fire off their whole damage before popping (due to the other inherent fallacies of gallente ship design principles post speed nerf). fixing the ships is needed either way.sidebar:sooo, a while back before they fixed the 0% chance to hit at 0km, i did a bunch of math on how the tracking formula works. i found that ccp did an excellent job with their current formula because it perfectly encapsulates to hit % and dps vs. range. that said, i was rather dismayed by the exponentials and the lumping together of to-hit calculations, tracking, and falloff, primarily because it unnecessarily complicates things for players. theoretically, you should always hit with a weapon should your tracking beat their transverse velocity. period. end of story. however that is not how the current system works...the entirety of the tracking formula is used only to calculate the to-hit boundary. transversal, range, turret speed, signatures, falloff and optimal are all lumped into the chance calculation. a random number is then generated, and if it is in the to-hit range, the actual damage is determined by a simple addition and multiply:if: (randnum < chance)then: dmg = (randnum + .5) * turret multiple * ammo dmg)coincidentally, this is one of the reasons why ccp is in love with weapon grouping: the damage formula is simple while tracking is painful and complex. performing the calculation once for 8 turrets is a huge time saver.if your idea is to be implemented, you'd be moving a large portion of the calculation away from the to-hit chance portion, and adding more math to the dmg calculation. personally, id enjoy this. basing to-hit on the falloff etc is really dumb. if you beat tracking, you should always hit, but this is not how ccp sees it and nor is how it is calculated. then again while the average dps mathematically comes out the same either way; just pray you are lucky."
"if i've followed you right-make damage more dependent on size of the ship you are trying to hiti think that would work out okay, but they still have problems with both fitting and cap issues."
"this is such an awesome idea."
"genius. please ccp, make blasters good!"
"gallente have been nerfed to uselessness already by having to rely on drones (which never worked right) and blasters being utterly fail, making cross-training to amarr or the minnies inevitable. it's about time they got fixed. give people a reason to cross-train gallente for once!"
"supported."
"this with a slight buff to tracking and a medium net buff to dps (enough alpha to overcome slower rate of fire and still do more dps) will help blasters alot. also lowering fitting requirments will help. this also makes sence; why would a frigate miss a titan 10-20km away."
"best thing about this proposal is that it preserves the idea of blasters, while keeping them unique and distinct from the other weapon systems.yes, it will require intensive testing, but for the love of eve, it's worth it.supported!"
"supported for greater blasting."
"i believe the exploring aspect of eve could be dramatically improved. in many games much fun and time is spent exploring the world and few games have a world as expansive as eve. the problem is every system looks so similar. would be nice if their where more things to explore. items like the eve gate, the concord bureau, battle sites.would love to see more of these things in the game. in addition to simply existing it would be great to see a short write up on what did happen. give us a beacon with a really nice text story to go with the event. maybe even some voice over? then let us loot a brochure or something for fun.this would bring more lore into the game and make exploring actually fun. having interesting things to explore would make people actually want to fly out and find and see these things. thoughts? comments?just really want a more involved world.all for a fairly low development cost."
"that will fit ccp abraxas' new initiative... of making you drown into the wiki of eve lore. ("
"aye thats what i was thinking of. i love eve's lore but their is not much in game.also supose i should support my own post."
"most definitely supported :)maybe make bpc's green or something, that would only require a minor graphic monkeying to make new icons that are the same as the corresponding bpo's but different colour."
"one of the problems used to be that they couldn't have 2 different items (bpo{item1} & bpc{item2}) producing the same mod/ship/whatever{item3}, so original & copies had to use the same item id.they seem to have come up with a solution now though."
"thx for the support."
"in local people often scan for people not blue(yes local sucks).the only non blue person i see is me.so on a quick scan i always see one neutral..oh wait it's me.can this be changed...we are not emo and i would hope i have good standings with myself."
"supported."
"better remove us from member lists.. why are we in the list? i know that i'm there (wouldn't see the channel otherwise) and there is nothing i could useful do with myself by right-clicking on me, except getting out of the corp.the other options are hilarious btw:- show info brings up the char sheet, not as you would expect: your public profile- add corp contact wtf?!- capture protrait yeah, i really need that there all the time..- form fleet with lol, for fleets i use the fleet window, where i can set it up too and with a lot more details- edit member good one, any use? can't see any for myself..- transfer corp cash oh yeah, no wallet choice there.. no real use.- award decoration to myself? that's gay!- report isk spammer lol, right. i report myself when i spam the channel with isk-rmt adds.. rofl, that one beat's all- quit coporation the only one remotely useful as it can't be found anywhere else in the ui afaik.so what do we need ourself visible in the chat channel member list for again?to be able to quit a corp?lol!!!the usage for our own portrait in the member list of a channel are just no there and the options emerging from it are mostly broken/not thought through/bad implemented.get rid of us there."
"nice, support me.but honestly, before improving this, i first would like to get rid of all the bugs belonging to standings in local, station, fleet.eg. if you are alliance fleet member the standing icons are bugged, not showing the right icon. you can see neutrals in stations which are blue etc.these bugs are known bugs, filed as bug reports and petitioned, but not getting any love."
"i don't disagree on any particular point.supported. +1"
"just give neutrals a color tag. they appear with a gray = in my local/overview."
"doesn't work for the op - he doesn't want to get distracted by a difference in his local intel tool. any other symbol than the one the other found friendly signatures use is signalling difference (= alarm).so either, himself doesn't show up in local or he can set himself blue."
"think it would be very nice for a smile"
"fully support"
"please put it back in, i have never had the pleasure, being a new player and all..."
"when it was safe to do so, the squishy sound actually would make me open up the menu and enable sound just to hear it!"
"^bump^...and supporting myself."
"nice one, probably had been proposed before, but ya know.. no tracking possible, so here is my support"
"so xel ra - are you saying you don't think eve has a rmt problem?"
"i'm saying you appear to have a basic reading problem. try again:\"i'm not saying the threat of rmt can't be true, i'm not saying it's unlikely to be true, i'm not saying it's unfounded. but people are waaaaaaaay to ready to call something a fact, when, as yet, it is not. i mean, the magnitude of people's willingness to forgo credible evidence is really stunning me, here. people are shouting, \"eve is ruined!\" why don't we ask ccp for its version of the facts and what its factfinding methods are before we decide eve has an rmt problem.\""
"argumentative and off topic, withdrawn."
"this could be put under the category of \"csm engagement\", last listed topic. i would like the csm to ask itself this question on a regular basis:what is the csm doing to consistently improve its processes such that those voices which go must unheard or get most trampled upon are being ever more brought to the fore?"
"it would be really nice to have ical and imap support on evegate so that i don't have to reload that morbidly overweight ui every time i want to check the ingame calendar.ical provides support for group scheduling, accepting/rejecting invitations, and specifying the timezone in which an event is being planned. ical clients (such as \"ical\" on the mac, sunbird on other oses) allow the user to show all their appointments in their local time - no need to keep translating between utc and local.imap for accessing mail would be very nice too. ideally we'd be able to send new messages, but that would involve adding an ldap directory service to allow mail clients to provide a searchable address book.baby steps. let's get ical support now, we'll wait for imap/ldap/smtp at a later date :)"
"this is a risky option because bot-reporting is much more difficult.what if the player is afk mining? or just went to the bathroom? would you wait 3 minutes for a response from them? if someone bugged you if you were there, would you respond to some stranger?i'd love to see bots taken down, but before such an option could be implemented ccp would have to instruct the player base on how to properly identify bots or potential bots and likely limit how often it could be used to prevent gm's being flooded with a time-consuming process - determining from the logs if a player was in fact a bot.somewhere there is a thread about a dev-blog on botting, go to it and support it - perhaps ccp will implement a similar solution or at least inform players how it is going about dealing with bots."
"this proposal isn't ready to be voted up on yet.. at least some more details/options/ideas should be thrown around beforehand.my opinion/idea:the button would work in a way that you get a window with a specific questionnaire why you think that the char in question is boting.what kind of questions do we need to be asked here?next thing this player started process should do is not to get on the pile of petitions to be looked at by a gm, but instead goes into a pool/pile of workload to programs that start to collect this kind of information.only after a set of key elements for this process meets certain criteria set by ccp the whole case for that char should be looked at by a human./supported to show interestas always, the ah forums isn't capable of delivering the needed infrastructure for this kind of process.. see my sig"
"they have no inherent intelligence.my drones are smarter than they are, and my drones are ******ed!its usually not even \"smart\" to use said bombs, unless your suicide ganking, and is that really a smart thing to do?despite the bigger issues that face us, i think the time is nigh that we ask for a name change for smart-bombs. anything that reflects their characteristics more will do.so capsuleers, what shall we call them?"
"shockwaves. energy pulses."
"at least those bombs dont make dps on you, if you use them. for a bomb this looks damn smart ;)"
"they're smart as in - they don't destroy your ship when going off. there where some brainstorming ideas thrown around to make them visualise more like point defence weapons. especially after that eve:dominion trailer.would look into this direction and add this to your proposal.. in case it's not a troll"
"platform shooter smartbombs damaged/killed all hostiles, leaving friendly players/npcs untouched.eve smartbombs.... just aren't smart. they hit everything.so either the mechanics need changing or the name does. my vote is for the name. (also keeps the change small.)the skill is called energy pulse weapons, some variation on \"pulse bomb\" or \"energy bomb\"?"
"why would you call stig a troll?"
"1. secure corp building & researchthe ability to password protect corp manufacturing / research jobs in progress (ie. titan / super carrier builds that you do not want to be cancelled by emo directors / builders / spies)we have had to create a separate corp to build supercaps because you cannot give members the flexibility to perform basic corp building tasks while running super cap production as well in the same corp - it's a major security risk. it should not be this way!2. new icon for blueprint copiesthis has bugged me and many other people for over 6 years now... can you please add a little symbol to blueprint copies to distinguish them from originals? much in the same way that t1, t2, and t3 are marked.3. alliance pos gunnerspilots with the pos gunner skill in the same alliance should all be able to use the guns on an pos so long as it is within the alliance! as it stands, only members from the pos owning corp can control the guns - this is inflexible, and a hindrance to teamwork, and fun when only a few alliance pilots can partake in the action.4. outpost upgrade for super carriersthere are thousands of supercarrier pilots that are now perpetually stuck in space inside their ship - this problem will only get worse over time. an upgrade module needs to be created for outposts that allows super carriers (perhaps not titans) to dock, and free up all of these characters to enjoy other aspects of eve besides being entombed inside a super cap.this module would also allow for genuine trading of super capitals to take place in stations via contracts or direct trade.5. alliance hangarcreate a special hangar in stations for alliances so that pilots from different corps can share items. the executor corp of the alliance would be able to control access to this hangar in the same way that a ceo controls access to his corp hangars."
"definitely no on the supercaps docking."
"fully agree and supported. especially the blueprint one - seriously - its millions of years in the future and we can travel the stars but we can't setup something to keep the door locked to a lab?too bad this didn't make it on the csm's list - but maybe we can cram it to them last minute with enough support! bump to the top!"
"if anything, the rest of the capitals should be removed from the dockable list as well."
"these should probably be in seperate threads....1.) i like the idea of password protecting jobs, but i believe the ceo should have the ability to override it. 2.) absolutely supported! 3.) reasonable on the surface. 4.) i think the docking of supercarriers is a neat idea..... but... it has to come at a price/risk. i would make it an outpost upgraded called a \"docking service\", which should replace the tier 3 office upgrade (which is worthless now, but wouldn't be after this upgrade). the docking service should be an attackable (reinforceable) service. when the docking service is reinforced, no supercaps can dock or undock!!! now there is a significant cost to getting a place to dock your supercap. a tier 3 (monument) upgraded outpost costs as much as two titans!!! there is signficicant risk! your shiny ships have a reasonable chance of getting stuck in station!!! your super pricy outpost has an excellent chance of being taken!!! there is significant benefits! you can fly other ships, your supercap is safe while docked, you can repair it with station services (free repairs!!!), maybe even supercap insurance."
"i disagree with docking super caps. however, there does need to be a better way of trading them other than to call up chribba every single time. i mean, the man can do only so much. what happens when the super cap population doubles?everything else are no-brainer good ideas."
"what on earth made them start doing that, anyway?killmail links used to be in people's signatures for cripes sake...killmails are game content and as such should be allowable in the forums."
"just remove killmails."
"no. its good that they are removed. we do not need personal flames and laughs about failed fittings etc. and discuss it in a bad, destructive way like its always used when it goes personal, hitting your enemies on the foren.forum is not ingame. its sort of a meta-level \"above\" the game.-1"
"this.."
"so what is your wish?1) automatic confirmation system, so more work for the devs to produce it and some nifty maneuver to verify all the klillboards without risking infections from some nasty virus?or2) manual confirmation done by the forum mods so a lot of extra work for the mods?in both instances why the rest of eve should pay for your e-peen?because the killboard isn't generated by the game."
"search for the word kill or kb in the official rules, you will notice there isnt even a rule about it, there is a thread in caod that randomly says \"kb links will be removed\" but there isnt any official rules."
"..this doesn't explain why the links get outright removed"
"oh please this"
"they don't remove the links that people post about my kills.anyway, i also support the removal of killmails... or at least making them less informative than they are now.why should you know what you destroyed or whether what you looted was fitted or not?the only thing a killmail should say is who was involved in the loss."
"i thought they removed killmails and generally dislike killboards altogether because they don't want eve to just be about killmails, which is exactly what has happened."
"agreed. they serve nothing more than rising e-peen levels."
"that's like being a car race fan, or race car driver, and refusing to acknowledge that cars are made differently and that certain drivers drive certain cars. \"lets make it about the driving, not the car\"that's a perversion, i'm sorry. and there is something inherently wrong about mods removing killmails from the forum. it feels wrong."
"car racing doesn't involve killing people and stroking e-peens because they have more kills than you do.fact is... eve isn't completely about pvp... it's about.... eve online.not supporting."
"i would buy that reason if they didn't delete raw kill mails too. the fact is, ccp doesn't want kills published on their forums, for whatever reason. and that's the part that doesn't make sense to me - they provide them, yet they don't want them posted - it's like the slightly creepy uncle no one wants to invite to christmas.don't get me wrong, i think kms are all about epeen stroking and attention whoring (look at me look at me, i killed your noob frigate with my supercarrier! i r ubrleet!) - but the fact remains that ccp almost seems embarrassed that they exist sometimes, and it makes me curious if they will be going the way of the learning skill at some point in the future."
"fake sounds? what are you going on about"
"and why do you support this proposal then? lolanyway.. the new effect is better and more believable than the old one afaic(oncerned). could use some randomness maybe, but not the curtain like fx the old one had./not supported"
"i like he old one better too my friend.supported."
"i like the idea of a building up cloak field too rather then poof cloaked"
"recently i participated in a pos bash. (eww yuck yes i know)i was taking the lead on the sniper battleships (that was fun even if it was painfully long)we broke the fleet up into various squads and had our own objectives to take care of.everything went fine when i realized that i was unable to call targets at my designated range... 200km+someone found out that you lose the ability to call targets at 100km thereabouts.now honestly... if i can lock it... if i can see it... on overview... and visually... why the #### can i not call a target?i mean... it's just... just doesn't make sense.i propose that this gets fixed... the solution is kinda obvious.pros: fc's can stand off at long range and call targets.cons: uh... none?"
"yeah i support dis."
"i also want to be able to look at ships at 300km"
"we should be able to do the stuff as long as we're on the grid.. you can't even look at stuff further out than 100km..except naturally for stuff that is range limited like locking a target."
"supported because there is no reason to not do so."
"yep, if you can see it and lock it you should certainly be able to broadcast it.."
"i support this.i always have issues where i can call a target and nobody sees what i have called.would be nice to be able to let others in squad to call targets too - and to remove a call on a target.nothing worse than to have salvage still with target blips on them.maybe the options are there and i just havnt figured it out."
"support yo"
"imho go an bug report it bugedy bug bug"
"just in case some of you macro users missed this thread."
"i wish csm would write what they have done to influence ccp to get rid of macro users."
"yes, because we really needed another damned thread about this."
"job??? they are volunteers and don't get paid for this. we make ten new threads here a day for them and they have all sorts of business like reports and meetings with ccp that are more important then this.they are supposed to hold down rl jobs, do there duties as a csm, have a rl and play eve and they do this for free. and you have the gall to tell them to do what you think is there job? after they went out of there way to push for the release of a botting dev blog.quit your *****ing."
"oh cry cry cry..... they have done lots. it is hard to counter software that emulates a person usage. makes it tough to separate the macros from a person with a mining alt. remember unholy wrath or whatever it was? the massive macro crackdown? i will leave that to somebody else to find the links to, i cannot."
"this thread is now about why alts should not be allowed to post on the assembly hall forums and nuclear wessels!"
"the nuclear wessels are in alameda."
"locking thread. this is not a proposal for the csm.you may be interested in reading and commenting on this dev blog."
"as i said, it has to be prototype test for changing all 0.0 to no-local.this is not a thread about removing local from 0.0this is a thread from trying something else somewhere else.(don't mean however it is against removing it)"
"nice idea discussion. wrong forum imhops: i doubt well get more systems reachable via stargates any time soon, as ccp already had problems fitting those additional systems in for fw, with all those systems over each other in flat-map-mode.pps: you can probably achieve the same with a new kind of wormhole (doesn't collapse) and another batch of wormhole space, where every 3-5 systems are constantly connected. dunno what you want to have sovereignty for though, as the only thing it's really needed for is to build scs and place outposts. but then you get the problem of practically invincible systems, that can't be invaded. also, what's the conflict driver for those? can't be 'just sov'.ppps: that's really a f&i discussions thread and should be there.."
"you missed a few:ice harvester bpos will need to be refunded (how do you value the extra research?)t2 ice harvester bpcs will be worthless (despite costing money to produce)ice mining upgrade bpos will need to be refundedt2 ice mining upgrade bpcs will be worthlesssp refund required on ice processing skillsp refund required on ice harvesting skillisk refund required on ice processing skillisk refund required on ice harvesting skillhulk rebalance requiredmackinaw rebalance requiredharvesting certificates will need revising."
"why? what problem are you trying to solve? how will your proposal solve the problem?"
"good idea.unfortunately pi is already being macro'd (botted), so nothing will be solved."
"what does this feature&idea discussion try to solve or add to the game?wrong forum imho."
"i dont see a problem with adding to the game. but there is no reson i can think of to remove ice mining as it is now or the ice belts. i also think that active ice mining in belts should be king over any pi ice work."
"your article is well written but that shows that even well written threads have idiots writing them."
"not really supported especially in bpo form [i would support it more if it were an invention product in bpc form]. anyway t2 salvage is around for people that know where to get it."
"yep!"
"from some of the replies it seems you're touching null sec resources there..also the op doesn't read like a proposal, but more like a idea discussion.what problem do you want to solve.. what con's/pro's do you see?stuff like that..also some kind of information about the area affected (t2 rigs market/use) would be nice../can't support in actual state"
"i dont think thats going to fly. but you got my support"
"weren't they going to add that feature like they did with the \"alchemy\" addition to reactions? that being the ability to transform basic salvage into better salvage? guess it was dropped, or i imagined it."
"1. u're the one that tossed around the term \"invulnerable\", not me. so let me put this in terms that hopefully, even u can understand--u...already...have...the...chance...to...catch...them...inside...a...station. in fact, there r only a few locations where lvl 5 agents r and they're camped by other pirates on a regular basis. why should the t3s forced to go back to high sec because they're not allowed to guard all the isk they invested? because u risked nothing to get your killmails? not gonna happen.2. which setups do not require logistics? u still have yet to link such a fit.all u've done is whine and complain about how u can't get your juicy killmail because the carebears r adapting and investing so much of their isk into their adaptation. u want both sides of the story? why don't u spend a billion on a t3 and grind lvl 5s if u think it's so riskless and easy? or r u too scared to risk so much, only to be on the receiving end of another pirate's killmail, even with such \"invulnerability\"? that's what i thought."
"if there would be the slightest chance to probe them down in a reasonable time frame, they wouldn't be there in the first place.how long will that be?if you get a chance to find them and it's too long (mission completed) you won't be happy (they just bring more t3 to finish the mission even faster and if that means the rewards split up are not worth it, they will not come any more).if it's too short to finish a mission then they won't come any more also as you'll drive them away (loosing such a ship once might work, but more often and the cost/profit ratio will tank).your proposal doesn't solve/balance any of this.following numbers are made up:1) running missions and a chance of loosing your ship in more than 1 out of 50 missions is not sustainable (ship replacement, some isk for the bank)2) when the prey to predator ratio is not high enough, there is not enough prey left that doesn't get killedwith 1 out of 50 missions a complete loss of the ship it would mean, that there would need to be 50 missionrunners for 1 pirate blowing up one of their ships while they all run a mission (no podding allowed also). this doesn't even factor in losses by npc. so you can double that number. you'll need 100 missionrunners per pirate.you can turn these number around too - 1 missionrunner needs to be able to run 100 missions while the pirate can kill his ship 1 time.if the missionrunner is being killed more often he'll have to leave.this might be a good starting point for your proposal about those unprobeable ships."
"i don't know about removing defender missiles but, none the less, your proposal is in line with mine somewhat on fixing the missile graphic and potentially reducing lag.support herenote: the above proposal is not a balancing thread and only addresses lag and the missile graphic, not if they should have their in-game values changed. please support a better looking missile launch!"
"i underlined your misconception.missiles are an object the physics simulation does track and has a 'ball' for, as this is how missiles work. if ccp where to change them in the way they did change the fighter-bombers, then it wouldn't be missiles any more.it's also not the physics simulation who did have a big problem with those balls themselves, but the routine used to get information about all balls your client should have knowledge about and the part of the routine that sifts through ball creation/deletion.ccp masterplan already tackled the first one and is now on the second one."
"nope"
"no. get used to it.use extern tools if you want to see clocks. even windows supports adding more clocks."
"for people playing in timezone spanning corps/alliances and eve running fullscreen i can see this being useful.and as has been stated it's a cosmetic, client-side, gui thingy, so i support it."
"no, then we just get people outside europe using their own timezones (europeans usually dont have much issues with utc), and europeans being confused about daylight savings. the eve clock just gives the eve time, nothing else."
"although i agree with your sentiments, i must comment that utc is basically gmt, so mainland europe is +1 eve time. europeans also have what is known as 'daylight savings' so don't be so condescending.i would also imagine that eve time relates to server time so not all that cosmetic.solution to those who play with others that live in different times zones - ceo - when will you guys be on until?player 1 (in eu) - 22:00 eve timeplayer 2 (in au) - 02:00 eve timeceo - thanks, i now know.having everyone refer to one time is surely less complicated than referring to a number of time zones."
"no no no basically he wants all the benefits of 0.0 in lowsec. without and of the drawbacks of lowsec"
"lol-1noi love to see semi pirates trying to hit me and then be blown up by station guns. thats good.goto 0.0 if you want all that and dont gank noobs in empire."
"funny becouse i was thinking that they should add more defences. like fraction police that respond based on your fraction standing there fraction standing and just how low a sec your in. kind of like concord in high sec. but not a your going to die like concord. just normal fraction police."
"would give the right people support down there (you'd have some npc on your side to fight the ones coming down on you).. nice idea.anywhere a proposal that sports this that i can sign?"
"except with my idea, you'll be able to add a bit extra tank to any resist for a period of time and not just the particular modules you have equipped."
"so to make it worthwhile it more or less is redundant to overheating those resistance modules?or if applied 'right' would create even more overpowered setups for pve?/solution looking for problem, not supported"
"we are geting mainly becouse they had to make it for dust514 anyways. it's not like they said hay lets push walking in stations on eve. it's the crumbs that fell off the table into are game. it's a benfit of dust514 for eve."
"you mean wod, not dust.. dust has got another engine afaik (correct me if i'm wrong)"
"make contract contents show up during a mouse-over of the contract so you don't actually have to 'view contract'.such as, say, a blueprint contact will show whether the print is original, copy, runs remaining, ect. or when someone offers 1000 zydrine a simple mouse hover over the contract will show the quantity and items.mostly this is just to make surfing contracts a bit less time consuming, and help people avoid the rampant scams."
"buy from people who know how to use the [info by issuer] field. and leave the rest for bargain-hunters.if you want to find bargain deals from morons easier and faster i can't support that.in particular as i like to invest some time screening the 'maybe-cases' and find the jackpot. also because as seller i use said field to put any important information for the customer right there, for him to see in the list and by thus have an edge (service) over the competition.also no to cotton-ball-eve. if someone wants to buy the contract then he has to open it anyway and should check it's contents. can't see how you can fail this way for scams./not supported"
"i don't know about random ships or random stations, but more control options in the hands of the players.or player generated missions, corp, alliance generated missions.there are a lot of very interesting possibilities within the first two posts."
"the drone bandwidth thing was not meant as a unilateral idea, but caldari are the only race line with no 125 m3 bandwidth bs.as for the concerns about the slot additions... it probably would reduce variation overall, but versatility matters more. besides, more bs pilots is already in increase in variety.as for the navy ships, perhaps a one or two slot addition to the proletariat bses depending on how many it already has (so bring them all to 22 slots) and give navy ships 23 slots total."
"i completely agree with this sentiment.(i knew i liked you.)"
"a well-deserved golf clap for getting ccp to choose quality over quantity with the release of incursion. this latest patch proves that the delay was time well-spent ensuring only quality products make it to tq.it was worth the delay.victory,kb"
"htfuhtfuyour really bad @ maths, aren't you? htfu!"
"killing the bots does not have to be game breaking for the players that actually play and are willing to adapt, if ccp is willing to take a few steps back. npc sell orders for the 8 minerals, the refined ice products, and the base pi & moon materials would keep the game running without bots. npc base prices would have to be painful relative to the current market and climb as npc volumes increase to act as a soft price cap; but these are game mechanics that are already in place."
"would be near perfect if it wasn't for the atrocious locking range of the ships to which speed matters most: lights. just the idea of being able to open the overlay and be able to see movement of ships grid wide makes me salivate .. very homeworldy"
"i would prefer to see this also when i'm dampened/jammed please.."
"supported... only if there's a convenient way to turn on and off the overlay to avoid screen gets messy :p"
"ccp has voted to 2x the jump base and/or reduce the fuel usage for the black ops however,when they are going to add the passed votes i do not know.i do know/think is that they will also allowed covert cyno to be lit in empire.now if ccp does follow through this will bring back the black op to its know glory and pvp will be at a new era.now if they would just allow the black ops to use a covert cloak,that will also give the black ops something worth buying but that's me.so ccp get to work and make the black ops worth wild chop chop."
"replying to that i support my post"
"edit your post,tab on the box just above your character selection box. this gives a yes vote (a hand with thums up) to your post and that get all summed up on start page. however i think i bumped this soo many times that it doesnt make any differance in outcome anymore"
"fix black ops now ccp"
"not supported not need other hotdrop ship for blob."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noas much as i understand the additional income would be a boon, maybe even a necessity to ccp, and thus would not freak and quit if they went the cosmetic only route (the yes route i wouldn't need too, i'm fairly certain eve would just destabilise and die anyway), i still feel i have to say no on this one.one of eve's best components is that the roleplay element of mmorpg is actually unavoidable. sure there are those who take it to the next level (such as myself where possible) and create and play out the actions of detailed characters, but even the most lol-toon-haxorz echelons of the player-base are a part of a living, responsive universe whose nature is determined almost wholly by the events going on within.microtransactions of any sort would be the equivalent of breaching the fourth wall in a serious sci-fi drama or the like. the moment you reach in to make changes directly from the outside world (ie: with money) you immediately compromise many of the game's virtues. sure, not to a major extent but the very idea of that just doesn't sit well with me....though on a bizarre note i just had the idea of ccp offering, for an increase in subscription fee, an 'adults only' mode for incarna. whew o.o"
"i'd pay to have fw plex spawning fixed so that the rest of militia can experience how awesome after dt plex fights are.something that adds so much depth to the game, a major expansion, hyped from the roof-tops, and broken for 2 years now."
"i'd very mucho like that"
"bump."
"gets my support"
"how about roids that move? might make for some more interesting fits / mining ships if some of the more interesting roids were moving at a good 500-1200+m/s.or as someone suggested in another proposal, vintage-style fields where you have to use a scout and d-scan to track down off-grid roids."
"supported."
"you could sit around idly waiting and hoping for ccp to \"fix\" botting or you could fight back yourself. your choice really."
"i <3 blasters"
"nice idea. might want to take a look into moros blasters vs structures though...would need some serious tweaking for balance, but sounds nice. at the very least the idea of blasters as short range artillery - massive damage with low rof."
"holy **** an actually blaster fix. the mega pilots will be please."
"why this....sounds pretty good. buff gallente."
"that's hell lot of code to writebut still worth trying damage decay formula needs some testing"
"very out-of-the box suggestion that might just work. scaling is a bit off though as you would practically obsolete rails entirely if blaster have near infinite range (sig dependent).if you really want a shotgun function then damage should drop to near zero very fast, not only due to spread but loss of kinetic energy.some concerns:- what's to stop swarms of blaster frigates/cruisers from taking down entire bs gangs with no real danger to themselves?going to be a kiting nightmare, imagine blaster vigilants/megathrons doing full damage to capitals from sniper range (top-of-head calculation).- what does ammo do. it currently modifies damage/range, would you propose it became damage/tracking?- td's would have one script obsoleted against these blaster (range), do you propose they modify gun sig res instead?"
"you bring up some great points that i will definitely have to work into a more polished proposal/ccp balance team.like what would stop frigate gangs, and why use rails over blasters when fighting targets larger than yourself. however i would like to clarify for the thread, that sig radius increase *or how fast the spread increases* is based on the optimal/falloff range of the weapon. if you target a blaster ship and decrease it's range, you increase it's rate of decay/how fast the shot spreads out, and thus decrease his dps directly.the sig radius/damage is not just based on pure range, but range in comparison of the optimal and falloff range of the weapon.thus ammo would still effect range/damage. you either have high damage, faster damage decayor lower damage, slower damage decaydecay rate being based on rangei hope that makes sense, i,"
"i agree with the idea of giving blasters a new and better role within the game. i really hope ccp will see these points of view and actually agree that they messed up by nerfing blasters to much. cause after all they have so much more potential then what they turned out to be.i do use blasters on a daily basis in eve and have a strong opinion that they deserve much more then what they have ended up to be. just a slightest increase in range or tracking still make a difference.c'mon ccp, you can do it.."
"this is win."
"all for it. this sounds so far to be a great idea. lets see it in test now.ccp make it happen!"
"i support this"
"with the advent of gas cloud harvesting in w-space, gas cloud harvesting is now a venture that is not limited to the few who are able to scan down drug clouds in the remote reaches of null sec. in other words, anyone with the balls to venture into w-space can gas cloud harvest.that said, gas cloud harvesting can take a very very long time (c540, anyone?). being able to fit 5 t2 harvesters on a ship requires a lot of cpu, which limits the ability of pilots to fit a ship for gas cloud harvesting and also support a decent tank (which is arguably more important in w-space than null sec so far as indy-fit ships are concerned). in order to field a decent tank/gas cloud setup, you need to be flying a bs, which is slow to align, relatively expensive to field, and forces indy toons with few or no combat sp to diverge from indy training to get their bs sp skilled up. i fly cruisers to gas cloud harvest, as they are faster to align/warp out if danger presents itself. however, i am forced to fit 2-3 cpu upgrade mods in order to fit 5 t2 harvesters and a survey scanner. also, my options are limited to cruisers (or yes perhaps bc's) with the requisite 5 turret hardpoints. this makes tanking impossible.i propose a dedicated gas cloud harvesting industrial ship which is less expensive to field than a bs and offers cpu bonuses for fitting gas cloud harvesters or a higher base cpu limit. it should also grant bonuses to gas cloud harvester cycle time or yield per cycle, to speed up the extraction process on those pesky 3-digit clouds."
"fingers crossed. can take hours just to get the right blueprints in research and contract off the ones that i've produced :("
"scs in their current state are essentially swiss knife of eve. on top ridiculous amount of hp, e-war immunity, they can assume many roles like (but not limited to):- anti-subcapital ship (drones, fighters)- anti-capital (fighterbombers) (new primary role since dominion)- siege (fighterbombers)- logistic support (rr, cap transfer)- e-war (remote ecm)- ...they surpass and completely obsolete several classes of ships, like regular carriers or dreadnoughts. to limit their abilities on battlefield, i'm suggesting:1) remove shield/armor/energy transfer range. logistic support - that's what you have for your regular carrier.2) make fighter bombers unable to target/attack structures. installation siege is primary role of dreadnoughts.3) fix hel. replace rr bonus with bonus with something more suitable for their primary role (anti-capital ship).this is not supposed to be ultimate answer to \"super-capital proliferation\", but rather making several other ship classes viable again."
"no. you can't dock scs."
"also sky is blue. so what?what does the \"you can't dock scs.\" has common with fact, that css can rr more effectively than regular carrier (more cap, no susceptible to dampening, ecm)? or that they can kill structures faster than dread without need of siege?"
"it is true that as of this writing sc ae pretty much the go to capital fleet master. i however have noticed that swinging the nerf bat generaly does not go over well with the eve player base as they have grown acustomed to how they pley. so swing he buff bat instead.dreads gain a new tracking system that is similar to there current seige device but makes them capital hunters again, ie a dread equiped with this module over the current seige module is a threat even to a sc ono on one but lacks the heavy fire power for pos bashing ( and dont start with the whole \"dreads are for pos bashing only\" bit cause they where regated to that role and then lost it so it never fit to begin with, they where just really good at it)normal carriers could get are a bit of a problem though , and im not sure how to fix them as i honistiy have yet to fly one"
"i would have to agree, especially when we are talking 'nerfing' something that was just buffed and made useful.my preferred solution is:- increase dread damage capabilities to equal (or even surpass) that of scs. they are already heaps more vulnerable, make them into the artillery pieces of eve .. big whallop, everything else mediocre.- increase fighter bomber signatures to that of a bc rather than as currently a cruiser (ie. double to 250m). makes them a lot more vulnerable to being shot down by practically all weapon systems.- adjust armour shield values on scs to be a bit more even. aeon/wyvern can get near titan level tanks which is just obscene, almost twice that of the gallente/matari."
"you could probably double or even triple their damage output, and adjust signature resolution and tracking to a point they do reduced damage to regular caps and just hit supers for full.just adjust signature radius of structures accordingly. as it stands, supercarriers need a true nemesis instead of just a bigger supercap/titan blob, even if fielding a buffed dread is still a suicide run, at least make them bring the hurt."
"bump it up"
"dear ccp-team,first of all thank you for the x-mas present of letting us reimburse the sp from learning skills. it was a gift that lead into a good direction. i don't want to complain about that... the only thing is the lose of 72 sp/h.this fact was dissappointing me as people will train slower than you mentioned before ('no one will train slower than they currently do').however, here is my idea:the current factor (in evemon) is set to 1.00 from learning skills. if this is right you can easily change it to 1.01565for example:32*1.01565 = 32.5008 (uprounded to 33)26*1.01565 = 26.4069 (downrounded to 26)this calculation allowes me to suggest to modify this multiplier up to a point where everything is back to what we were used to.another option would be to add an attribute point whenever it reaches 32 points in total (suggested by my co-ceo).i hope this opened a way to think about the new system and to rebalance it or better said - to optimize it to its original max. sp/h. we think this should not be a big problem and easy to change.thank you capsulers in advance for reading this and if you like supporting this topic (checkbox befor sending).best regards :)soeldner mugen and kyraziel drakonis"
"i think so too"
"looking forward to hearing what ccp plans to do about botting, aside from that pitiful gm-blog.here's what i'd consider to be a reasonable solution:1) an unambiguous policy statement: bots are against the tos, they disincent player engagement, we plan on taking them even more seriously, and there will be lots of bans coming.2) some intelligence gathering and forensic data analysis, targeting not only the bots but their customers and affiliated 'clean' accounts.3) publicized bans and asset forfeitures. if people aren't losing titans, moms, and 50 million sp toons from ill-gotten gains and *****ing about it, you're doing it wrong. pick a d-day, provide for some sort of appeals process if you like.4) client-side work to prevent easy exploitation and ongoing server-side behavioral analysis. punkbuster etc.5) a commitment to improve game mechanics so that they are less bottable and/or more dangerous/engaging/fun, particularly concentrated on pi, mining, ratting, and missions, in roughly that order (pi placed first as a giveaway since you're already doing that for january). a preliminary timetable on deliverables (hint: 18 months sounds like never)although i honestly don't know how they could achieve all this along with space barbie given their current resource commitments. by the way, ccp: who do you think is going to be interested in playing your new games when your only current one has all these problems? if i were you, i'd shift resources to the only revenue-producing product i had. it's your dime, though. maybe there's a large, untapped market for a scifi 3d chatroom with boring and repetitive minigames. like second life, but uh, more primitive and constrained?@xel: what exactly does some post about social media consultants trying to manipulate reddit have to do with rmt/macros/botting?"
"bring back the old dd system too in games.3000+ player lagfest in system or hundreds drake it's ridicuolus.make selectable the old and new dd devices system, because this guns dd changes just bring laggenerator mode and huge ship numbers to fight."
"why dont you use bombers instead ? thats why they were changed afterall."
"remove titans and supercarriers from the game imo"
"ok your advice, bring more ship to system where 3000 ships fight. loland other thing you try bomber run in a laggy system when a moule activation need 15 minutes ?useless and the sbombers creating more horrible lag and their bombs usefull just in a small 30km circle.just try , when they decloaking in a laggy system the screen freeze like a hell.we dont need more lag, we need solution to lag decreasing."
"we know ccp will never remove from game this shiptypes.i know thats would be the best solution, but ccp wont delete them, so need other solution.1st, the titan dd change was bad idea, because it's dont care many pilots how many players is in a system. we saw there in lxq2-t. over 3k pilots were there in a laggy unplayable system, but the other pilots still tried to jump to system.2nd the titan bridge usage it's too safe now, need change.such as, remove the cynosural field to fleet jump, but need for titan jump to travel to targeted system with the moving fleet there.3rd the sc numbers in game it's ridicuolus. over 1300 now in game and 70+ sc create every week.4thsc power in the game, so ridiculous too.ccp when created the titans in the story background, made a supership, which is rare and very powerful and almost undefeatable.now a sc kill a titan easily in 1v1.so the stories in eve is wrong ? a sc better than titan ?ccp need to changes their stories or change those ship attribs for balance."
"supported"
"yes but make em separate modules one focused dd and one aoe ddoh and i too think that the titan bridge should require the titan to jump with the fleet"
"god no!!10 titans on the field + aoe dd = everyone dead.i thought this was one reason why the weapon was changed - and it's a good reason!"
"i actually would welcome a return to the days of grid clearing titan dds. it would bring back bs fleet pvp. it would provide a remedy to the massive fleet lag that still lags us by clearing grids (fleet lag did spike enormously after dominion remember. i wager this is a result of larger fleet on fleet battles with the lack of the ability to clear a grid). alliances would have to cough up more of their moon goo money to the average alliance member in the form of fleet reimbursements. which in turn, could potentially stem (partially at least) supercap proliferation."
"yeah because back in the old days we never had lag, right? and when even small alliances can field 3 or 4 titans, it sure would be great to make everybody turn up in a capital ship, yes? no possible negative consequences to that, right?all you'll do is take us back to the old days when any attempt to take a roaming gang through alliance space met with a titan uncloaking and vaporising it.you idea would be fine if there are only 3-4 titans in game. there are in fact 300-400. they're so common that we're seeing guardians being doomsdayed. that's right, cruisers. trolling removed. zymurgist"
"ask yourself from old days. do you remember in old days, when the players want to jump in a system when 3k players tried to fight and wait a half hour for a single module activation ?ccp upgrade his system but the lag now worsen than before because nothing can stop 3k players to jump a system when the hardware can support maybe 1000 players with reinforced mode.and the players just spamming their jump button at gates when they know they wont go in to system.and other thing we dont like trolling and the personal remark what you did."
"titans (even though there are 400+ of them in game now) are somewhat useless atm unless you have 10+ of them and a good number of scs in the same system / fleet.used to be that a solo titan could cause a hostile fleet to think about mass-jumping into a system (blob). then, the hostile fc had to attempt waves lest his or her fleet get wiped. it made for more interesting fights and helped smaller alliances defend their space against conventional blobs.also, as posted above, scs are way overpowered compared to their supposedly superior titan class ships. though they are not meant for solo use, there is a problem when two scs can kill a titan quicker then two titans can kill a sc. titans need some kind of boost and / or scs need some kind of nerf. (not even going to go into how one or two scs can quickly incap a ds pos with little or no risk - way overpowered)bring back the aoe dd. either as a script (5m single-target damage or 2m aoe depending on the script in the dd module) or through a second module.either way - make titans usefull again!!!!"
"the aoe lag was even worse than the grid lag. have experienced a 10m long almost static image just because some titan got a hit on 100+ targets and server went belly up trying to feed all the data back and forth .. bad idea.what i think is warranted though is an increase in the titan's scan resolution. takes a good while to lock even capitals in lag-free space .. they carry a lot of firepower from dd and guns but the sc has completely supplanted them in the damage role so they are back to bridge duty which is sad.or go all the way and give them a counter to sc's in the form of a drone inhibitor burst module that disables (ie. stationary) all drones in a 25km sphere for 5 mins so they can be shot down far easier (just an example mind you)."
"it was never true,grid lag more worsen than aoe.other thing, without old titan dd, the ship numbers increased to at least to double number.with the old dd with same account numbers in fights was maximum 1200-1400, now this number increased over 3k numbers, because no weapons against blob. it's bring more number tactics to unplayable fights without brain.we know yoshida like game where cant playing just watching the screen and waiting half hour to module activation or waiting hours for log in to game.this is much worse than anything else. +1600 ships (this is 2x-2,5x changes) in system, while ccp cant duplicating their server capacity."
"probably true, but re-introducing an iwin button doesn't solve that. will merely work to cement the existing powers even more .. sc buff was bad enough in that regard.make titans feared on the field by sheer power through guns/dd, make them able to 1-2 volley a drake. portable battle stations as goddess intended, not all-powerful cosmic anomalies.you know what exactly? do you even know who i am?amarr militia has been my home since the beginning of the war, null was left behind due to the lag/blobs/aoe dd/drama-llama crap. i imagine you share that feeling as you too have been in the war for some time if i recall."
"go to trolling to other place thx."
"long time ago there was idea to allow smartbombs to damage people using nos and neuts. so while energy drain mods are active, the ship would receive full smartbomb damage even if outside basic smartbomb range."
"martabombs."
"doesn't everyone with a super-cap have a holding alt anyways? they cost significantly less than the ship itself, seems like it's just part of the fitting, really... [1] makes total sense. [2] i believe has more to do with stupidity on the part of ccp's database planning, and turns out to be a more significant change than one would suppose. but then, it's still really worth doing. [3] & [5] seem to be part of a much-needed overhaul of the entire corp / alliance roles and access management system. actually, [1] is probably part of that same fix. so basically, this proposal boils down to a work-intensive minor fix, and a massive overhaul of the corp / alliance roles and access system, and a controversial proposal to dock scars. i'm supporting all but the last bit."
"this.if they are to dock, i like the idea of the reinforceable module.but with one change: you should be able to capture it, and or, it releases the caps when destroyed."
"got a quick idea about how to disincentivize botters and potentially sink allot of isk out of the economy in one go; scale the upkeep cost of a system by the amount of npc kills that occur there over the month. if you make the formula that determines the scaling approaching infinity then it ought not be felt until you start having ridiculous volumes of kills. also, it would be hilarious to see some huge 0.0 alliances whelp all their sov because they didn't bother to take a look and see who was ratting in that backwater system they upgraded. am i missing anything important? the idea is that this prevents large alliances from renting out systems without actually handing sov over to the rentee's, and sink's isk out of the hands of people whose space is supporting isk farmers."
"kind of like a bell curve? too little activity, system isn't profitable, too much activity, system's not profitable, just right amount, system is profitable? or are you suggesting just scaling it such that the max income vs sov cost nets out to some max value?either way it seems like it would have problems with false positives; hurting groups that actually use their space as intended rather than just botters."
"this would actually be the point to ask."
"that's a funny but interesting point i've never read/heard before.kill mails in-game where likely meant originally as some sort of \"certificate of death\" and nothing more than that.ccp might actually find them a little... overkill (pardon the pun) in the implementation these days.if they really wanted them... they would have done all the work for and provided killboards or some sort of in-game interface already."
"to me the reasons smell of carebearism. ccp are afraid to hurt people's feelings by allowing killmails to be discussed publicly."
"killmails are central to eve... the whole multi player aspect of the game diminishes greatly without them.... for many many players at least... probably over 30% of the players (it's 100% got to be over 10% and all the points would apply to that percentage too).having all km's realeased daily through api would enhance the game for those that do care.for those that don't care it shouldn't be much of an issue at all. as to whether or not to allow the discussion on the forums...the moderation is an issue... although caod works ok ...(because it is quaranateened..) .. you need to like its \"meme\" or you'd best avoid it....not all content needs to apply to everyone.there are other eve forums out there...that are very much a part of the game but not run by ccp .players are part of the game too and we're not part of ccp.."
"if that's actually true (and it's certainly a workable theory), then i foresee a time when ccp removes them - might take a year or two, but i'd be willing to wager that they'll get dumped."
"parts of the game that are so boring that people use robots to play===========================*missions*mining (ore and ice)*penny-ing in market hubs*planetary interaction*rattingparts of the game that people actually enjoy===========================*pvpi can't conceive of even a very stupid reason why they don't allow killmail links. have they articulated a reason for this policy anywhere?"
"bump"
"amarr and caldari generally get buffer tank bonuses.gallente and minmatar generally get active tank bonuses.some t2 don't fit into this but that's the main trend.you are not limited to flying one race.crosstrain. htfu. it's fine as it is."
"troll rating: 2/10 the problem is everyones out there in exactly the same setups doing the same **** with the shame ships. lends it'self to a boring game. if you can't figure that out your probably posting in the wrong thread."
"oh, this thread again. in my opionion the active tank bonus should apply to incoming rr, too. if it applies only to rr modules it will just move you up in the primary list."
"thumbs up i miss the days when active tanks were abundant and actually gave thrilling fights compared to the must fit passive mindset we now have :(hi pattern o/kin."
"tracking disruptors and dampeners both have scripts, and they add some nice depth to their utility and pvp in general.i'd propose adding scripts to the other ewar mods. here are a few ideas:-ecm: lockbreaker script, which would have an increased chance to work (perhaps 100%) but would just break the targets locks, rather than prevent relocking. script would also increase cycle time. perhaps it would also disrupt any ewar effects the target ship was putting out, so you could counter standard ecm with a lockbreak.-webs: module statis. instead of affecting target's propulsion, would increase the cycle time on the targets high slots. (or perhaps high and medium slots) the idea being that rather than disabling mobility, the stasis mod is slowing the ships other systems, making it deal less dps, provide reduced remote repping capability, or neut less. optionally, have it work on supercaps and triaged/sieged ships like an infinity point.-painters: strategic designator; would decrease the optimal / falloff range of the painter module significantly, and rather than increasing the signature radius of the target, would allow a certain percentage of damage penetration to the next layer of tank. e.g., shields bleed through to armor, armor bleeds through to structure. no armor means penetration straight from shields to structure. please support if you like the idea of more flexibility / extension of ewar mods with scripts, even if you don't necessarily agree with these specific examples."
"sounds a bit vague and not really thought trough. probably better in features & ideas until you got a proper idea about how it would work.also:that wouldnt make a lot of sense now, would it? the idea is to support a rather specific proposal."
"omg i actually killed a troll.anyways.shameless solstice necrogotta get people in the mood."
"i'd support this if anti-faction missions paid out considerably more in comparison to anti-pirate missions. anti-pirate missions already are a bit more profitable since you don't have to pick up tags to get bounties.in any case, you'd have a choice between being a \"mercenary\" without politics (besides hating pirates) and committing to a faction. rp seems like it would support that idea. if ratting missions were significantly lower paying than anti-faction ones, i'd even go so far as to say that being able to decline anti-faction missions by citing the \"mercenary clause\" wouldn't damage relations with the agent / npc."
"ok, now that ccp finally got rid of the learning skills, that stalls the game. time to remove the jury rigging skills. they aren't needed really. it's like: oh, i need this rig for this, but i have to (1) buy a book (2)travel (3) train, wasted game time before i can equip it. and (4) i'll never need to train it higher than level 1. (5) nobody will buy t2 rigs cause it's the most wasted investment in a craft that will die at some time.cpp burry jury rigging skills prerequisites 6-feet under. slows game play too much, and that is much not needed."
"learning skills were unique because they had no gameplay impact and no risk-reward ratio. the risk-reward aspect separated them from implants, and the gampley aspect separated them from regular skills.firstly, t2 rigs are expensive, but so are faction modules, and you still see those get used.secondly, the rigging skills do more than just allow t2 rigs, they also reduce the penalty that t1 rigs give you, and trust me, when you've got a tight fit, the difference between a 1.05 multiplier and a 1.09 multiplier can mean a lot more than you might think, especially when you're running 8 guns and 3 weapon rigs.not even remotely supported."
"don't be ridiculous this is a stupid mechanic. it needs to go."
"uhm .... plenty of my ships are t2 rigged.and jury rigging enables some rigs. so it is a useful skill. not supported."
"obvious troll is obvious.not supported."
"this."
"idgi when did looking like an idiot become 'masterful trolling'?"
"it's something like this (profanity warning)."
"not supported. screwing up t2 rigs would screw over competently fit supercapitals, for one. also, some missioners who have the isk to spend on their mission boats will use t2 rigs in key areas (for instance, a hml tengu may use t2 rigor rigs as it doesn't exactly have a dronebay)."
"under description of \"trolling\" in dictionary, you can bring this as an example"
"no boost the penalty reduction of rigging skills to 20% per level that way the skills have more impact and there is more reason to skill them to 5 also it would balance the different penalty on different rigs a lot better (shield rigs and armor rigs for example)(yes at lvl5 rigs would not have any penalty anymore)"
"qft"
"not supported.jury skill has a bonus that is very useful and adds a level of complexity to the game for those who rig ships. it is not a prereq skill so much as a choice of benefits to the player, much like gunnery or missile skills. increasing it has benefits."
"hi guys!,my proposed fix of swapping hybrid weapons on the ferox and launchers on the drake would fix many things.first of all, due to the massive use of the drake over any other ship in the game, and the extremely little use of hybrids, swapping them out would kill two birds with one stone see.hybrids would get a dramatic increase in use and the drake over population would go down because of this.also a really sweet side effect would be instead of lots of lag, boy we all hate that!, the damage from hybrids are instant and there would be no need for the lag anymore from tracking missles.well i really hope you guys enjoy my idea and i look forward to your replies and will try to reply back to them all as soon as possible.i am very busy with friends and work, boy they can overlap , and will do my best.see you guys around!<3 toffee stunner"
"or just rebalance medium hybrids and continue working on missile lag."
"obvious troll is obvious."
"but my idea would fix both. that is pretty awesome don't you think? i fail to see how this contributes to my idea at all. please don't be rude in other peoples threads. you don't do that when you are a guest in other peoples house do you?anyhow... take care guys!- <3 toffee stunner"
"fixing both would fix both.your solution would not do that as medium hybrids would still be crap, even if they were on a drake. missiles would still generate lag, regardless of if they were coming from drakes or not."
"the thing is, drakes don't cause lag, missile spam causes lag. the reason people use drakes is because they're good, and they're good in part because they use missiles. if you switch them up you'd probably just end up with ferox rather than drake being used in fleet fights, only now the drake would suck for the reasons that the ferox sucks now and vice versa.sorry. it's a neat idea, but there have to be better solutions."
"mate, if you want a discussion about 'your idea', then this is the wrong forum.. try 'feature and idea discussions' for this.as for being rude.. your op is dumb. you have no idea what you're talking about and fail totally to understand what this forum is for.either stfu or inform your self properly next time."
"so the idea is that you are going to make the drake the ferox and the ferox the drake, can totally see how this would solve problems"
"speaking of fixing missile lag:fix missile graphic and reduce lag!if you'd like to see missiles look cool and incorporate the fb idea to reduce lag for all missile boats, click that link and support my proposal."
"i know many people have been saying various things like \"drone bay should auto-heal drones\" or other similar ideas with varying levels of unreasonableness.nothing in eve is free though so i think it should be a more similar method to current game mechanics.you can already repair modules in space using nanite repair paste.it would not be a large stretch to think of using the same repair paste to also repair drones in drone bay. this means it isn't free, and just in general has the same drawbacks as using nanite paste to repair damaged modules.it would be acceptable too to have it so that you can only repair drones in drone bay if you have no drones in space at the time, to stop people swapping drones and repairing them mid-combat, in the same way that you can't use a module being repaired."
"repair drones can repair drones in space. remote repair can repair drones in space.neither can be used on weapon modules.nanite paste can be used on weapon modules.having cake and eating it is also \"not very eve\" although they gave us the orca, so maybe you can have drone repair paste."
"or you could just give \"docked\" drones a passive regeneration as if some mantanace was being done on them, seriously its like 1000 years in the future ,are ships veins run silver with restoritive nanites that can close gaping holes in seconds, yet they havent come up with a automated drone repair system when there in the hanger"
"good idea =) that will give a bit more value to nanite paste and makes it less of a hassle to repair drones i mean go and target your hammerheads in a rr domi fun right ?"
"****, at the prices of nanite paste, i'd rather just let the drones pop and buy new ones, even tech ii. no way am i carrying more than 200 units of nnrp in any of my ship's holds."
"good idea.alternate would be to add a second operating mode to armour repairer or even rr units where they are able to fix up damaged drones while in bay.as long as their is some sort of cost associated, be it isk, cap, fitting, etc. or all of the above i am all for it."
"oh yeah i remember the part where i quoted the curtain side to side styled cloaking effects. oh wait no i didnt, because i never did. if you are going to bother with posting your lack of support at least fully read the op, youll see the video is of an even older cloaking effect"
"the curtain like effect was the oldest one. the one you got there might had been from a period where we did had the classic and the premium client side by side and this was the old effect of the premium client. the sound fx is the old one in any case.to reiterate..now: ship normal > activate cloak > ship turns translucent white > ship turns glassy with a wobble effectyour linked video: ship normal > activate cloak > ship turns glassy with a rotating wobble effectvery old effect: ship normal > activate cloak > ship turns glassy with a curtain effectthis means, yeah i did read wrong. yeah i don't like the translucent white part of the cloaking effect either. mea culpa. here is your support.."
"sorry, forgot to add that it was the old non-premium effect. but thanks for taking a gander at the video as i cant adequately describe it myself with words :("
"so we got a new icon for mwds, which do had the same icon as abs did but diferent names, and we still got no wayt to tell between bpo's and bpc's, which have the same name, other than checking info?fixit.give us a bpc icon."
"it may be useful to use search sometimes before posting. just a suggestion.it is not a matter of an icon."
"i support this motion. this would make for easier (hence faster) market querying for blueprints and vastly decrease their scamming potential, which may benefit everyone but most importantly new players."
"people actually still use \"call target\"? use tags for target designation. waaaaaaaay less buggy. came in expecting something interesting, left disappointed. and by interesting, i thought perhaps it was a suggestion that someone with fc role in a fleet could assign specific targets to different squads / wings / pilots.supported, but only because its an obvious bug."
"tags?ever try sorting out an entire death star gun grid?stick to the topic... keep it simple."
"sounds good enough."
"definately."
"ccp promised they would be reskinning all ships in eve starting with the scorpion. they loved the awesome hi res t3 textures so they redid a ship with them. they said they would do a few ships with every expansion. we have yet to see any development in this direction.this is just another one of ccp's empty promises. it's unlikely we will see anything in this department for another few years.but hey if this gets some attention, well you have my support."
"i love the moa, **** off"
"seriously, **** this ****.op, i think it is time you made another \"proposal\" and make a list of the ships that you think need fixing so we have an idea of all the ships."
"downside of punkbuster, it eats ram and there are at least 3 ways i know of to get around it in about 30 seconds.however, i love that story/mining idea. i would mine if that was how it was done."
"punkbuster sucks. so how about no."
"i really like this idea. why on earth would a capsuleer, the pinnacle of human achievement... mine rocks?perhaps another way of putting this proposal: make rp macros better at mining than irl macros, and simultaneously facilitate more pvp / interaction."
"your an idiot. if a miner wanted to run mission they would be a blooy mission runner. did it even cross your mind at all the time it takes to go from a hulk to a boring \"i am sheep see my raven navy issue\" mission boat? good god, i have two alts that i use to mine. ones a hulk pilot ones an orca pilot(in training). would you like to know how i got my standing so i lose nothing in stations when refining? i used my main and shared the damn standings. was this another thing you failed to remember when bring your \"super\" idea out into the world? i choose to have my alts as miners and builders because i dont like running missions. they are so boring and so repetitive that i actually fell asleep in worlds collide. yeah i fell asleep! i lived because like any smart mission ship mine was cap stable and easily tanked the npc's until i work up and logged. now before someone says minings alot more dull then missions, its i guess a personal thing. i don't mind mining, i gerenal read a book or chat with mates while doing it. having said all that i shall return to the point. missions are not something either of my alts can just decide to do in a day. getting a mission ship takes time, investment and a damn willingness to actually want to do. i didn't want another mission runner. hell i dont even run mission anymore with my main because they are so boring. your idea was poorly thoughtout, quickly slapped together and embrassingly bad. i don't mind a twick or too when it comes to the actually mining, but any changes should remain within the mining spectum. please remember that next time before tossing out the first thing that comes to mind.edit. also the prices or minerals isn't go down across the bored. nocxium has risen from around 100isk a unit when i started a year ago, too 500isk a unit. i see buy orders in the 400s. a smart mining stocks up their ore, refines it all at once and then set their price. they do this knowing they have a large number of units and anyone looking to build their own ships, will want to find all of their minerals in one place.sell smart and not 1isk under the next guy."
"yes. it was supposed to be the theme of one of the discussion sessions. at least thats the answer i got when i asked the same question in the assembly hall. or well, the general theme was rmt as ccp seems to be there but i'm sure the issue of general botting will be arised as well from the players side."
"she still has ccp listed from 2008-2009.i also notice that she larps.ankh has gone from crazy to downright creepy."
"let it die already."
"as a lively trade center, jita local will always be spammed with contracts and such. no, they're not all scams. and well, if you want to buy something, you use the contract and market windows properly, right? right?"
"so i know this is a rather superficial idea but it would be nice to have the agents, named pirates and whoever else actually have voices, this would be exceptionally nice if you heard voices during missions instead of having to open up your local chat or having that pesky popup when you enter a room."
"whats happaning up there do we have to wait until the minutes come out before we get any tasty new info this time last time we had daily summery updates just wondering."
"we hope to have the summit minutes published before the end of the year. i will try and post a recap after i get home on sunday, and hopefully other csms will comment here as well, but i need to get some sleep now or those sneaky devs will take advantage of my fatigue and get me to agree to something i shouldn't, or even worse, get me to reveal the hidden location of the csm's stash of ccp blackmail photos, many of which show famous devs drinking -- hard to believe, i know -- non-alcoholic beer!"
"what is your oppinion about the fact that you can't change the names of the tabs in ships for example a orca, the tabs are always the same as the ones used by the corp. i think it has to be made possible to change the tabs the way you want in your own ships.i don't know if there has been a post about this, so i'll start a new one."
"there are a lot of things in the corp management part of the ui that are clumsy or hard-to use. there have been a lot of discussions about this in the past. scrolling back a few pages, you should find the thread you are looking for.on related note, yes, it would be great if you ould change the tabs on each container independently."
"how about this?"
"from the feedback thread:we can only repeat the message till it sticks, don't blame us for ccp ****ups as it happens we are in iceland right now and have a double session with qa on friday. this will be dealt with"
"black ops need longer jump range and less fuel usage now :)"
"i would be fine with the following changes:1.) the ability to use a covert ops cloak.2.) remove the velocity bonus and add in it's place 50% jump and portal range per bo level.3.) reduce the fuel needed for the covert jump portal.black ops are the only ship that can use a covert ops cyno and not use a covert ops cloak.the jump range bonus tied in with the bo skill would make it at max skills able to keep up with a dread/sc fleet. keep the 2 light year range base, but with this proposed change it would increase to min skills being able to jump 6 ly and max skills jumping 11.25 ly thus keeping up with a dread/sc fleet."
"supported."
"it's true - eve font needs changes"
"i don't support my threads ethier because i put it forward to the community, it is a change to the game, everyone know what i want. i want to see what the community wants.and i want this so free bump for cooler less laggy missiles."
"agree... the stations would need to be at least doubled also..this was an oooold issue and it never got fixed. i remember people complaining about the ship sizes and station sizes. it seems to me the bases got shrunk. now we see capitals shrunk aswell...make the scaling accurate ffs! oh... and windows too :)"
"bumpsupported 100 times, just look at the wyvern vs erebus on p 4, i couldn't actually see the wyvern at first, and that's no joke"
"maybe they could put in a type of strip club but before you enter the door it has to verify your date of birth to make sure those who enter are the appropriate age?"
"supported. this isn't wow and i'm freaky like that."
"support.. not sure if proposed stat given is a best way to go, but some better balance is welcome.."
"without a doubt, support. fix moi railguns!"
"1.0"
"taranis gangs would eat just about everything. which.i'm not opposed to."
"ahac already handle bs with no real danger to themselves. also for the range thing if it has an exponential decay the only way (i can think of off the top of my head) it would go to sniper ranges is if a leviathan has an mwd on and is target painted to hell. also making td mess with blaster sig res is a good idea. also blasters will do worse against smaller targets for when they get transversal to 0 they will lose a ton of damage to sig res like missles. i think this is worth trying out on sisi and tweaking it till it is right.ps:rail are already obsolite."
"rails could be saved by acknowledging the fluff behind them-they are a two-stage weapons system and as such need something like the followingl* a projectile-esque selectable damage, or triple dmg ammothis would make them useful as damage dealers because world+dog tanks thermal right now.* a nice capacitor usage slidey bar so they're more tweakablei really liked this idea. the concept that you could empty your whole capacitor into one devastating volley with a low rof (and possibly destroy the module - it needs some kind of counter to stop megathron and rokh sniping blobs becoming fotm) or swing to low cap usage, low damage and get..some kind of bonus out of it that isn't limited by how fast the elves (or whatever) in your ship can reload the ammo. you still consume ammo, but it would give railguns a real flavor. i guess it would work like a more organic kind of overheat.* a pronounced shield bleedthrough \"piercing\" effect. yes i know the caldari whine squad won't like the last point, but ultimately it would make sense for the gallente faction to have a weapons system that is somewhat useful against shield tanked ships. the rail 'shell' stresses the shields and the plasma/energy/magic spell inside causes some armor damage. nothing ridiculously op, just enough to spook long range missile spammers into engaging at a closer range.pick 2/3.the balancing act on them would be a nightmare (like it isn't already..) but those are the three best proposals i've really seen come out of any of these discussions."
"i cant see any reason to not support this."
"/signed"
"your throwing a fit over 72 sp/hr......right *walks off*"
"that 72 sp/h is only true when you secifically remap to train a skill group. pray tell, how many people do that? i've only seen mixed remaps for say ships + support. there is no profession in eve, that has all related skills rely on the same attribute. none."
"yes we are throwing a fit about that... and rightly sothe problem is why is that missing point gone? the answer is because of the 10% bonus of the learning skill also applied to implant boosts ... so in effect you lose those 0.5 points you would have gotten from using a +5 implant ... which effectively renders them so much less worth ...why couldn't they just leave in the 10% bonus skill and just remove the attribute skills if they are so hated by the big community who couldn't be bothered to invest in future training but wanted to have the same benefits at the same time = /"
"while i can understand people's want to be better informed about ccp's method of controlling rmt you can understand why they aren't forthcoming with details of what they're doing. imagine asking a bank's anti-fraud department questions on how they do and the similar blank-face response you'd get.personally i'd like to know if incarna is truly on target or whether it is likely slip again. i know that it could and understand why, but i'd like to know so i don't get my hopes up. a list of implemented features in the incarna expansion so far would be great as well.argus"
"i myself would like to see some thing done with mission ninjas. to and many other mission runners salvaging a wreck should make them a target the same as tiping a can. alot of you miners in here crying about bots. well your 1 month old alt that you use to ninja missions with gets old aswell. i should not get concorded for stoping a thief. that or make it so that the skills to scan and probe missions take as long as it doese to train to do missions. there is no risk to what they do at all. a lvl 4 mission bs is not going to risk getting concorded for shotting a ninja in a a t1 frig ****ing there salvage. they gave us a new salvager that almost never gets used due to the fact if there is more than 2 gates in a mission by the time i\"m done with the mission there has been a ninja one gate behind me clearing it out. if they are going to ninja salavge make them as red as a can tiper and the problem is fixed."
"bs's have xl shield reps why not xl armor reps? it's bad enough that armor boats use their tank and dps mods in the same area.for example: you use an armor fitted cane for a lvl 3 mission, then have to use that same armor rep for lvl 4's in a tempest. it doesn't scale.if you use evehq to work up your fits before implementation. you'll see a remarkable difference in the tank for a shield vs armor ship.so what are the chances that we'll see these?"
"i'd love to see you put a large armor rep on a hurricane. shield and armor are different, just as they should be."
"lol can you imagine the fitting requirements for a module like that?\"well.. you can fit an xl armor rep... but you're limited to electron blasters for damage. hurp derp\""
"op needs to realise that, as has been said above, armour and shield are different. if they were both the same there would be little point to using one over the other"
"xl armor reps would have no place to fit in the game as at the moment armor reps are used as dual reps to a single shield rep. and yes armor tanks can reduce your dps shield tanks can reduce your tackle. armor reps have better cap stabilityshield reps, rep more but with more cap.xl shield reps are equivalent to 2 large armor reps."
"sure, would you mind if we reduced the cap:hp ratio down to 1.5 and gave you moar mods to try and fix that instead?if not then i think you can live ( quite happily i'd guess ) with your large armor reps."
"local has long been a hotly contested topic both between players and ccp staff internally.predators want it removed or reduced and prey want it maintained or even buffed.the most commonly stated problem: too much easily accessible information.the most commonly used defense: needed to maintain social interaction.this proposal buffs both of those basic needs:move local to optional delayed channel similar to constellation.move region (yes, it does exist!) to be the new primary default channel. even if it is done the same way as local (showing everyone in the channel talking or not), regions are big places and it ceases to be a useful intel tool to the degree of local. it also vastly increases the social end of public chat access. possible spam reduction option: put a 15 second cooldown on speaking in region.what say you?"
"supported - on the condition that d-scan got a moderate buff (in range to about 4-5x what it is atm) so poor carebears still have a chance to gtfo in time"
"supported. though we should replace local entirely with constellation, in my opinion.edit: as the default comms channel you can't close, i mean. and make local itself a delayed or no member list deal like in w-space."
"supported. same as above."
"i actually think d-scan should be replaced with the return of the old school grid radar. except it should be for 'sensor contacts' not the active grid. then you can select how fine the scan area is and that will determine your range with it.say you keep it on 360x360 spheroid scan... range is only going to be 10 au. focus it to 180x360 hemispheroid and it doubles the range to 20. and so on. 90x90 conical would have 30 au range, 60x60 conical might go 40 au. 30x30, 15x15, and 5x5 needles could be 50, 60, and 70 respectively.so if you can aim well enough, you can watch a stargate up to 70 au away while plinking away in missions.basically its the sniper effect, the more specific you get about where you look, the further you can see and the more you can ignore in your immediate vicinity.probes should still be needed to actually warp to stuff however."
"no."
"not supported.i don't think this proposal is very well thought out, with no local lo sec will become even more empty and everyone will gather even more in empire.a solution needs to address the basic need to know when people are in the same system as you, and the current dscan is insuficcient and inadequate for that. your dscan change is cute in theory but too much work in practice, especially since most people don't quite get how dscan works (protip its aimed with the camera not the tip of your ship).things work fine the way they are as without local the game becomes unplayeable, both for pirates (no easy way to know where someone may be) and for \"prey\" (no way to know when to gtfo which means you go there even less).the only way i would support something like this is if there was a tool that did the same local does now. and dscan would need a lot of changes (especially range wise, but also interphase and usability wise) to even begin to qualify.very no."
"good compromise, supported.not the scanner thing though, that will either be useless or lag everything to hell."
"no, this will only result in chasing people to high sec/forcing people to have alts if they want to live in 0.0 (who then will run high sec missions).if you would do this i wouldnt blame anyone for using bots on the directional scanner, which is immediatly the only ones gaining from it, the macros. sure short term you can kill quite some, but then soon 0.0 is even more than now a deserted waste land, and only ones who can spam scan button every few seconds are the macros."
"this pretty much sums up how broken local is, when there's actually people out there that don't know how to use the game's primary intel-gathering tool because they can rely on watching a chat room insteaderr, you know there's no local in wspace right? and wspace is hands-down the best (and possibly last) place for solo and small gang pvp'ers to get their fix without getting hotdropped or mega blobbed while flying something more substantial than a frigate"
"a proper compromise involves adding 5 new npc 0.0 regions to the game, with no local. that way everyone can see and compare how regions with and without local perform. and those who like one but not the other can choose where they stay.then is the no-local regions are a success, the rest of 0.0 can be changed.modifying existing regions in any way will always draw criticism, but it's hard to argue against completely new regions."
"err, you know that no local in wspace only works because wsystems are very low traffic/deserted systems by their nature with very controlled access dynamics, right? and that its because those controlled access dynamics that solo and small gang pvp can happen without \"getting hotdropped or megablobbed\"; due to there being no way to cyno ships into a wormhole, or get blobs inside (unless we are talking a higher c one, and even then you have the same issues with mass etc to get access in there for the ships you want).aka: you confuse the issues completely. no local works because of how wormholes work, wormholes don't work because of no local. and no local wouldn't work in kspace (or be desirable) for the reasons presented in prior posts.by the way, your stealth whine about cynos and blobs has nothing to do with local, and last i checked this thread was about removing local, not about making pvp viable by reestructuring k space to work like wormholes. which i am not sure would get much traction either."
"how much more thought out do you want it?i disagree that more people will stay in empire. the same people who venture forth now will continue to.that basic need is driven by the fact local works the way it does. why does it matter if someone is flying around in the same system as you without your knowledge. if they are trying that hard to remain undiscovered, then they should be undiscovered.as for d-scan, it wont be any harder to grasp now than it would be after, infact more people would figure it out since visually it would be more intuitive.unplayable? male cow excrement. it's a crutch that has always been there, it will be even easier to hide from pirates than it is now (aka you can't now). it would be even easier to sneak around undetected by anyone at all. it would make it easier to carebear it up in low or nullsec, because it makes you that much harder to find and identify.replacing local doesn't fix the actual problem gameplay wise. just like wtz didn't fix the gameplay problems with instabms."
"have some imagination. sure it might not be as easy for you to avoid risk, but then you aren't easy to find either... unless you are just making yourself far too easy to locate."
"if that was true, then there would be no point to changing it: the same people would continue to play in both places, so what is the need to commit ccp resources to something that you seem to think would change nothing.i disagree that the reason people want to know who is around is based on local. i would think its based on many things, such as ship, or pod integrity, but not local. and i wouldn't say its a crutch, people are using the game the way it works and was designed. you may not like that element of the game, but then i don't like t2 bpo's and they are still around. this doesn't mean that the system works or not as intended, just that for x reason, you don't like it.i disagree. pirates will just roam with scanner alts to quickly scan down whoever (and finding if someone is around is not hard with the current probes). this just makes it a lot harded for non pirates to survive because they are a: doing something atm and may get distracted and forget to pulse dscan (which has pitiful range atm anyway) or b: get dropped from a probe scan from pirates outside of dscan with no warning. i would say that the dismal state of population in losec due to pirate overfishing would show that such a buff to piracy is not required or desirable.citation needed: what are the problems gameplay wise with wtz exactly? before it, people made thousands of bookmarks to get the same effect. ccp fixed that issue quite successfully, i think: the obtuse, unintuitive and ******ed system where you needed a billion bookmarks was replaced with an elegant solution that is intuitive and provides a much superior gameplay experience."
"so giant coalitions can just cyno in 4+ titans and aoe dooms day an entire fleet? no thanks. the lag is being worked on. aoe dooms days are not the answer."
"yeah lets just force everyone to bring capitals super capitals to every fight because nothing else will stand up to a dozen doomsdays."
"or small alliances can defend yourself and can kill giant coalition hordes.and 4 titan enough against the new suppercarriers ? i dont think so.and other one, ccp can reconfigure the aoe dd damages.do you say lag is being worked, but it's not true, because ccp cant stop lag, when the players want to sent more ships to one system, because no limit there. no one can stop them there.now they just bring 3k ships, next time they go in with 5k ships and the result will unplayable system again with 5k-8k players, because no one can stop them.but the old aoe was the only weapon which could stop the brainless system blobing.ps: other one ccp need slowing to titan and sc build times. too much supercapital build todays.need to increase the build time from 1 month to at least 3 months."
"nothing will change because makers will just pop up 3 csaa pos instead of one to keep up with the demand. build times are not the answer, there is a reason why supercarriers are so popular. scs are best ships in eve at the moment. titans have some very nice mobility perks for whole alliance but for pure killing power scs is where it is at."
"suppercarriers? how much food do those hold?"
"sry but your trolling not equal with arguments.do you talking about, 4 titan enough against everyone.1stthis is not true. 2nd you talking about, this is help for superalliances against small alliances.what help now for small alliances ? nothing. a huge alliance easily blobing them and they cant save themselves.their only one weapon was a good timed aoe against blob.now ? nothing just run and evac.and one last thing now ccp created the sc, and sc fleet can wipe out easily the titans from field under very short time, so everyone can use antititan ships."
"4 scs vs 4 titans .. who do you think will win? or to be more realistic 10-20 sc vs 4 titans?\"sc's are the counter to everything\", ever hear that before? reason it was said is because there is nothing that counters them back, an aoe dd does nothing to change that other than make sc's/carriers even more valuable.small entity deploying titan against larger to get rid of blob .. what you fail to realise is that the blob is composed of sc's, carriers and titans with a smattering of tackle. good way to cash in on the titan insurance though. aoe will only benefit the fat cows and does not actually make them any more valuable/usable. numbers do matter, more than they should, but that's the way it is at present.aoe, when it was still in game, just gave birth to cloaking/nano titans doing hit and run dd's which was and is fail.give them tracking and scan res to hit bs.give them dps to threaten sc's.make their tanks superior to sc'smake fighter bombers more vulnerable to a broader range of weapon systems.that is the fix needed, that will bring titans back to the front where they were before the sc over-buff."
"i said you need to go trolling for other places.and bring with you the noname alt too."
"try to read, that's wrote anyone else.stop your continuing argument.every places when you go, do you start argument with 0 kill 4 losses stat. do you think you are a pro, but you can't do a single kill with your alts.maybe do you flight too much time in high sec.do you know nothing. obvious troll is obvious"
"i think that a titan with the aoe dd can survive against a fleet of sc wait till all the fb are on you then fire the dd and all the fb are dead and without those a sc is just a big block of ehp"
"a \"troll\" is someone who deliberately and consistently tried to derail or obstruct a debate/thread.all my replies have been constructive and on topic, with direct responses to off-topic attacks where needed only.so tell me again, who is the troll?aoe is a bad idea! was a bad idea when it was in game and since nothing fundamental has changed it remains a bad idea.the fact that you cannot get to grips with that very simple fact and instead start personal attacks and calling everyone who tries to point it out to you a troll, makes you look like school-kids holding their breath because they can't have an icecream.@hun: last name identifies me, or should. i have never hidden who/what i am. veshta yoshida and hirana yoshida are the only two characters that i have, so yea .. you looked up the wrong one dear."
"aoe was good idea, need a little changes, but it is a good idea, and that is just one thing on battlefield which can stop the blobs and 8k players in a system.the change to gun dd was the bad idea, because thats useless, you can pop a carrier, and nothing else, cant safe yourself because long reload timer, now titan an easy prey.but the worse thing no alternative weapon at game which can stop blob.the games at big battles going to unplayable, the tactics level reduced to bring more man my friend.but how you could knows this at fw, on the small children's playground."
"aoe dd was one of the most horrible ideas ever invented. really i still wonder wtf the devs were smoking when they added that.only result is that you get even more than now roving gangs of supercaps. then however they lose their last bit of vulnerability.hirana is correct in his/her assessment, no sane person can possibly want aoe dds back. one of the whole issue with scs is that they are far too good against smaller ships, and then you want titans to be much better. every decent sized 0.0 alliance can gather enough titans to doomsday caps with aoe dd (and that is ignoring the ridiculous numbers posted here, which would have a single titan killing every ship on grid except other supercaps)."
"sure it stops blobs, but it also stops flying anything but capitals. in some 0.0 areas residents dropped titans on 10-man roaming gang on battlecruisers, and now there are even more titans around"
"ok there has been much talk in the forums lately about ewar and how to buff,nerf it to make it better , but its still only one way , i.e. i take something from you , rather than get something better. so once again i present the electronics superiority ship mark 4the ess is a battle ship sized vessel that features 8 high, mid,low slots , but has no turret/missile points and is as manuverable as a bc. it may however field up to 5 scout class drones as a basic defence. and has tank considerable to that of a standard bs. it is designed for maximum adaptability and survivability but requires a fleet to be effective in any form.the main role of the ess is unlike traditional ewar gathering more information about the current situation that your opponent rather than cutting them off. the following are examples of ess only modules and what effects they apply(for the following 2 modules take it from the point of view as if local was being removed from low/nullsec)system ship scanner- this module when active roots the ess in place similar to a siege module but does not require fuel, it takes 30 seconds to spin up but once active produces a bubble in the scanner screen similar to that of a probe, with its size being skill dependant . any ship that is within that bubble appears on the screen as a dot, with red being hostile and blue allied. additionally you see the bubbles of any other ess ship that is in your fleet allowing a network of ess ships to cover a whole system and allowing them to track literally every ship in it, while they can give warp in points to their fellow fleet members this way they are not exact coordinates you may land anywhere from 10-100 k from the target ship itself.(for the following module assume that cloaked ships will no longer appear in local) system pinger  a simple yet complex device when activated it sends out a special shockwave that bounces off of only specific energy patterns, such as the phase field used by cloaking devices. in actual use this informs the ess user that there is a cloaked vessel within 250k of his ship but is unable to tell the exact location or do anything about the fact that the ship is cloaked, merely that it is close.ship analyzer  defence: this module when activated scans every ship on grid for its defensive abilities , it takes 5 seconds to scan one ship with skills reducing that to 1 second, after which it moves on to another ship on grid, excluding your fleet. after scanning a ship it sends the data to all feet ships with is rendered as a shield icon next to the ship in question showing that ships current weakest resistance.ship analyzer  offence: this modules is akin to the defence version but analyzes the ships current weapons load out and determines what damage is coming from the ship, again this is shown with an icon. im sure we could come up with more ideas of modules if we wanted"
"\"factory manager\" needs to be split into separate roles.\"factory manager\" = the person in charge.\"whatever role\" = the worker who puts jobs on.requiring all members to have the ability to shut down corp production just so they can research a blueprint is not right.it makes creating fluid working industry corps an exercise in futility."
"i've been using onlive here in los angeles for a while, and here at work we got a demo and beta test of gaikai, and they both work really well. surprisingly well, i might add.lastnight i tested onlive out on my macbook pro, hooking up my xbox 360 controller and played a demo of assassins creed really fluidly.i think eve would do really well with this type of system, because it's built to be played online, with a small amount of latency. i can see why fps wouldn't be as good on these types of systems, however borderlands multiplayer is doing quite well on onlive, and i played mass effect 2 for a whole hour using gaikai.ccp (and more importantly, csm please bring this up to ccp) please look into developing relationships with both of these companies.also, onlive's ipad app works really great too. please incorporate touch controls to eve online - i want to play eve online on my ipad! how awesome would that be?"
"just some thoughts circling around my head:* reduction in pi extractor output (surely planetary work would be disrupted by sansha fleets?)* added time penalty on pi processor facilities * incursion rats at customs offices* expand incursions to include other pirate factions (many people have brought this up)* pirate hacks that disable sentry guns on stations and gates, rats at gates and starbases.* pirate hacks on billboards* pos sieges by incursion forces (this needn't be a massive fleet for sake of lag but a few dreadnoughts/carriers that come to take you down to reinforcement, then return the next day if the incursion is still active)fell free to add your own!"
"mostly supported:* yes. this would be a fitting touch for the sansha incursions.* see above.* also see above.* no, that'll be a whiles off i reckon, with all the work that has to go into incarna and all...* very good idea...why would the rats have to tank gate guns? (and yes, the isanshas will be gatecamping, rats stationcamping would tick a ton of folks off though)* 'twould be quite a nice touch, have the sanshas use the billboards for psyops ;)* maybe, probably have about 10-20 bss do the sieging instead of dreads/carriers."
"industry whine detected."
"i like this idea.but, they'll just go farm missions."
"or farm in other alliance's space"
"-1this wouldnt solve anything. you just dont like the way it is because you obviously dont have a system or you are not using it a lot."
"how about this fix instead: if player plays game (not afk) for more than 16 hours a day for 4 days in a 7 day period, player = bot.afk status would be determined by no commands/chat for 30 minutes. there would still be bots with this change, but they'd have to run less than 16 hours a day to avoid the ban stick. that's a major improvement over the 23/7 botting."
"i could easily play for at least 16 hours per day for 4 days straight with breaks of less than 30 minutes for toilet, food, shower. hell, i could probably get 18 hours/day for 4 days. but i understand the principle you are proposing, even if it wouldn't work (get bot to type into private corp chat once every 5-6 minutes).i think this would stop afk cloaking though..."
"agreed"
"or:3) have ccp build and host their own killboard on site."
"at least the killmail discussed in the foren should be anonym, without names, time, locations, corporation and alliance in it. because we really dont want \"political\" discussions."
"hey, this sounds like a job for ----eve gate!!!(at least then someone might use it)"
"yah, lets just make all teh ships and races the same. . .honestly, active tanking bonus' are fine - o more coectly - th gallente and minmatar ships that use them should not be getting resist bonus' or any thing of that sort since its simply not their racial bonus to exploit.buffer is stronger in larger gangs, they ar easier to fit, and require a lot less management - ok - so then go fly those ships.and while you are at it, fit acs on everything too. . . since they were obviously balanced so well."
"no. that's too powerful.such effect is much more appropriate for ecm script that web script. on a web that's overpowered.depending on exact numbers, such a mod is either completely useless or totally overpowered. would be pretty hard to find the right balance. i had idea to allow tp's lower shield/armor resists by 5-7%. it's strange that in game like this we have no modules that effects resists negatively (altho sansha apparently got system wide technology)"
"i like this idea - probably better as a new e-war module though."
"okay, fair enough. i lurk here more often than f&i. what's the protocol, get it moved, or repost?"
"errr ... how is it overpowered on a 10-19km module but not on a 50-150km module? just sayin'"
"you didnt kill a troll shiho weitong, just made me think whats the point in discussing something with you where you just dont understand,i know many players/mercs etc have a problem with getting too many factional missions, unfortunately it only seems everyone who has groaned along with me dont like posting on this forum, as it mainly attracts people like you.i still think factional type of missions should be a choice (for some to protect standings it isnt) which has minimal affect on agent standings for refusal and or these type of missions should be reduced and not offered 5 + times in a row."
"is this blog still open for wishlist ? i just found it since i have been so busy with my planets ."
"this is such a bad idea that i would suspect you of being an alt of cromo effect. really really awful"
"right, because you really think that they're going to shout the methods they use to track botters and macros from the rooftops so the people theyre trying to find know exactly how to avoid them, you utter berk."
"so i finally got some free time before dinner now and the feeling that i have had enough time to think everything over so i can tell you the best parts without all the bull****. it won't be as elaborate as last time. in advance i can say however that i felt that it was very productive and, to quote dr. eyjo, ' you really set things moving in the right direction with the june summit'.i'm gonna go over all of the meetings and their topics and briefly elaborate. any questions, feel free to ask here or pm, mail whatever.summary: lots of srs business, a good number of interesting bits, some very interesting bits, no ankh. ccp and eve are changing for the better and we will keep pushing them. don't get your hopes up for incarna, but at least the spaceship part of eve will get a lot better.day 1:core we started off with a session about core and how it benefits eve. very informative, very nda.incarnawe told them how incarna without actual gameplay will be useless and i think we might have scared them a bit there. with good reason however, because just doing something because you think it is awesome is not a good reason. we also made clear that it would be unacceptable if anything you could do in station now would start taking much longer with incarna just for the sake of it being 3d. (loading times etc)virtual goodsplex etc. csm toolssome stuff about the csm site, the elections, assembly hall etc.charitystuff about the plex for haiti and relted things and their plans for the future for the system.security measures(ex) darius jonhson about eve security and the measures theyve taken to prevent account theft etc.day 2eve economya very interesting talk about the eve economy, rmt etc. what became clear is that there still is a ****ton of isk flowing into the economy whilst not enough is exiting it and that they are looking at ways to change this. we discussed ways of dealing with botters and rmt's and the results of that and their existing efforts should become clear in the next year or so. i am still surprised how eyjo can manage to talk about spaceship economy for 2 hrs with a straight face but he really knows his stuff.user interfacesee devblawg. they actually listened to us back in feb and june and i was quite impressed.game balancesome discussion about game balance and how to go about changing things. not nearly as interesting as the title suggests.game designthis was a rather unorthodox session in which we sort of brainstormed about a few aspects of eve that yielded some very interesting results. we were promised that these would be bundled and among other things would be made public at some point in the future.day 3post dominion 0.0 (3hrs!)if i had to fly to iceland only for this session i would have done it. we had gathered a list of items and prepared it a bit. important things we went over were supercaps, force projection, empire building, profitability of 0.0, objectives for small gangs and of course sovereingty. this kind of was 'my' thing and after the minutes are released i'm going to elaborate on it greatly. this was by far the most useful session of the entire summit and i almost felt like hugging arnard afterwards.qa at ccpa look at how ccp qa works. they took away a lot of reservations i had because this is apparantly extremely ****ing difficult.csm & fanfest 2011we discussed the upcoming fanfest and how the csm can help in making it more interesting without acting all ******ed like rockstars or anything. there will be much internal discussion bout this in the next months and i'm really looking forward to it.ps. vote sok 2011!!"
"can you elaborate a little on rmt part of economic discussion? and botting/macroing for that matter?edit: first :)"
"there is a lot of text, voice actors for all of it would cost a lot :)"
"it's probably going to have to happen though at some stage for the game to keep attracting new players. windows of text are not very appealing now, so they will need updating. maybe with wod, dust & incarna there will be a need for some full-time voice actors who can be seconded to updating things in eve.priority should be given to the in-space windows and local chat fluff (who would you get do do krull?), with in-station agent conversations being done later."
"right, because you really think that they're going to shout the methods they use to track botters and macros from the rooftops so the people theyre trying to find know exactly how to avoid them, you utter berk."
"i don't think the customs office is updated if it is open when a new batch of material is routed there. it seems that if you've had the window open for a while, when it refreshes due to import/export, more stuff will appear.my theory anyway."
"would devote some time to training this ship if it weren't for the short jump range and huge fuel use. also would love to seen cov-ops cyno work in empire; might shake up some empire wars. more love for black ops"
"not supported"
"bump."
"this proposal reads like it will break how webifiers are currently affecting the warp-sequence >> slingshot a freighter.any thoughts?"
"fully supported. we need more drama (and not just the flaming you suck no you suck between powerblocs, but we need more of that too) in eve, would make it much more exciting"
"you are really bothered by kids in eve asking for candies, aren't ya. and does anyone look at those rating anyway? none i know ever did. as for the question of three genders... why? really, why? there is enough of port of all sorts on the internets. i believe ccp's developer time can be spent much better that drawing out male body parts in 3d.qft"
"if the chronicles backup such thing, than ccp should/have to consider to implement this (in one way or the other).it would make eve more...big. fully supported."
"i support this topic!"
"supported"
"the only good reason for me to finish l4-5 rep drones that i never use is to be abble to rep my self. +1"
"it's ****ing dumb. i was astounded when after a week of training i found them barely usefull"
"happy for you"
"while i'm not 100% in agreeance with this the idea of nixing the belts and moving to clusters is something i can support 100%. maybe make barges/exhumers/orca/rorqual have a \"special\" scanner that finds the clusters and only the clusters in 10 seconds instead of 30 seconds."
"actually that'sa decent idea i think. the ai simply mines the entire rock, no matter what.miner can direct the beam and get the spots rightactually, this idea would also get rid of many simpler macres out there, since more intelligence is required. i never like mining cause it is to damn boring. improvement really needed."
"yes please, mining needs some love"
"interesting"
"mining is mostly the same now as it was then, minus this example. it worked for 2,000 concurrent users. apparently it can't work now...it would be fine. you'd have to adjust the difficulty/rates of finding stuff, and bump up the rate of mining since you'll be splitting your time between mining and scouting, but other than that it would work fine.my miner is dscanning in a fast scout ship, because thats the only way to get to them in a reasonable time. sure, i got scanned down easy. also got mad speed, and the seconds it takes to warp to me moves me many km past web and scram range.so. lets make it hard. we'll do this in low sec so i can't watch for neuts/reds and have no intel window. first,they have to have a prober and a frig or inty of their own to catch me since the probe launcher will absolutely gimp any frigate. then they have to actually want to bother trying to kill a frigate or interceptor. then they have to warp to me fast enough to be in range when they land, since they warp to where i was, not where i am. then they have to get a point on me quick enough for me to not warp out.and after all that, if they do catch me.. i lost a frig or interceptor.i'm not worried.heres pretty much what i'd love to see..-belts are nerfed, and don't have much ore at all, and what it does have are the low rent stuff. -in high sec/lowsec, grav sites become much more common.-in null sec, they remain uncommon. instead anoms, and a new class of mining anom, provide the majority of the phat minerals.-profitable asteroids can appear in any mission, signature, anomaly, complex, etc. not a whole lot, but enough to pique the interest of a minor and get him out there to make a few millions.-asteroids are labeled as they currently are, but asteroid content becomes variable. that may be veldspar, but it may have a 10% chance per cycle of spitting out bistot too. only way to tell is with a scanner, or to simply mine it.-ore grades go from being 5% and 10% improvements to 100% and 300% improvements on refining yield. they are the faction and officer spawns of mining. rare things that are awesome, but not at all a reliable income. you'll want everyone to keep an eye out, because they can appear anywhere, without warning.-rogue asteroids often appear outside of belts/anoms/sites, and can be scanned down with dscan. they have improved chances of being quite sizeable and/or higher grade.all of this would improve the discovery aspect of mining. minerals are found all over the place, and miners would welcome a call that an anom runner or complex runner found a nice rock for them. grav sites would be reliable producers, but they are not all created equal, so you may just skip over a particularly crappy one. with the hidden contents, however, a belt that looks good initially can be bad, and a belt that looks atrocious might have a hidden jackpot.the goal is to limit the sedentary style of mining. you would have to keep active, searching for new spots, scanning them once you found them, and keeping tabs on chats to see if any opportunities crop up. no more sitting in a belt for hours on end dragging ore to a jetcan. mining ops are organized because someone just found a giant grav site, not because its tuesday. if you did have a mining group going, you'd need scouts out and about searching for more.i have no idea what can really be down about the process of mining itself that wouldn't smack of an obnoxious minigame, so i will ignore that."
"used to mine quite a bit in the past and would do so again if there was much profit/less tedium. i like the idea of using exploration-like mechanics or simply more effort from the player to optimize mining and make it both more interesting and more profitable (if you are an actual human doing the mining)."
"and you will be mining in a interceptor while running a mad speed, right? niklas, as others in this same thread, your proposal are potentially good for the single miner, very bad for corp level mining. why you guys are so keen on nerfing mining operations?and you really think that there will be a large number of people willing to alt a mission, get a mining ship to gather the random valuable ore and then restart? for people running missions generally the asteroids are a nuisance that is immediately removed from overview."
"agreed.bots destroy the balance of the universe."
"definitely supporting this, all the stories are disheartening to say the least."
"there is issue with fof missiles. unlike drones they go for structures as well while there are still targets present that do active hostile stuff against you.the issue is especially relevant in complexses, missions and anomalies with some structures present.i'm not saying they should not hit structutures at all, as this is somewhat balancing factor in missions (ammo consumption) just that while there is things present on the field that do bad stuff to you they should go for them first. for example if there happens to be a falcon and cov ops present (with long point) that stays further away than closest structure it is very irritating if you fof missiles ignore them and just hammer at some structure with 2 million hp.another aspect that should be fixed perhaps is that they go after people who do remote repairs on you. including logistic drones last i cheked (granted it was a while ago). so it would be great if similar logic to drones would be implemented for fof missiles. ie, attack only stuff that has active agression on you or if you specifically set something with nonactive agression as a target. as they have already lower damage than regular missiles then such option should not make regular missiles less attractive option to field, however it would make fof missiles viable option to carry for something other than lolfits."
"i support fixing this issue."
"supported. very annoying"
"yup"
"ok"
"fof and drones are dumb. that's what makes fof unusable, not their crap dps (although it is not good) but also their dumbass behaviour. it's good they at least don't go for concord."
"don't fofs always go for the closest hostile target?"
"i like the idea of being able to inject a lot of cap into one shot to up the damage. it makes sense with the tech as the more power to put into a rail gun... the faster it shots things, thus giving more damage. balancing that to the other systems would be a pain though as blobs of rail gun boats would just go around and alpha one shot people to no end. who needs cap when the other ships die after one shot.also +1 to the op for a damn good idea."
"i would add to this that all blasters should gain a more or less perfact chance to hit as its target is literaly 10 or less km away. combine that with the damaged reduced the fater it goes and you would get a weapon system that has its own nitch but is not op"
"it would be nice to see other interceptors besides draimel or gtfo like it is now.i like it. anything to bring hybrids back as an option. i long for my blaster deimos to be worth flying again...anyone else miss the deimos?"
"bump, and please, the djego, stop trolling my post."
"ccp dont pvp them selve, they only plex in that jove space. they dont care about hybred guns since plexing go's much bettter with dev ships"
"sorry for this copy/past but this will avoid me some \"not english native\" allways pleasent to read.i agree with almost all of your ideas to improve hybrids that completly suck atm but:the idea that hybrid charges do dmg at shield and armor will overpower hybrids weapons and make shield skils become absolete wich is not an good idea in my opinion.however, hybrids need significant boost to their tracking and dmg, blasters need 100% op distanc"
"i complaining about blaster pvp since qr.i don't want halve asses things that people vote for because it sounds cool, i don't want to remove kitting and close range pvp at all form eve, and i don't want to reduce tactical choices. blaster pvp got a lot problems, however all this problems are negation able beside the point that it is just as useless at close range as anything else this days. they track bad at her range(everything does since qr), they can't dedicate range within web range and they deal far less damage than medium range damage dealers because they can't really hit her targets at her combat range(making them totally pointless for gank gameplay). they even can't defend herself well against tacklers at close range(what was the most ******ed thing ever, since nano still does this with ease by using range and speed). qr was in some ways like a total tackle and damage nerf for skilled blaster pilots making the ships basically useless for high dps gameplay without tackling the targets into the ground with a gang or fighting people that are not smart enough to move the ship in pvp. the problem with this is that they where used for this almost exclusively, because it was one thing they did actually well.a working blaster ship need the ability control range in web range far more superior than other ships, the ability to nail stuff in a spot solo and far superior hitting ability at close range, making peak dps and gank acceptable solutions over other ships and tactics again, at least for solo and small gang. in short, it needs back the ability to truly liberate people at point blank. this requires a real web(at least any true blaster ship above frig size does).after this, you can look at dps, ehp, bonuses, speed, fitting issues, active tanking, range, signature, cap, diemost and astarte, or fancy stuff like ammo changes.blaster pvp never was feared for dps as itself, but the ability to truly humiliate people at close range and people that will hit you like a truck without giving you any chance to get out of this situation alive(people like me, steamrolling stuff with 1600 dps gank megas, before you can deagress, warp in your buddys or move out of point range)."
"joss56 you post contains no constructive criticism, infact you say that my ideas suck, and then start *****ing about shield penetration effect, which has not been proposed in this topic. so you post ina:) irrelevantb:) unconstructive thank you, come again. the djego- you whant a +10% web effishiency bonus, like the one vindicator has, to be given to all larger gallente ships, including mega brutix, thorax, demois, etc.? make that a racial bonus? do i undestand you right?"
"let fitting blasters increase max velocity with no stacking penalty.let rails eat cake... or increase max engagement range to 500 km."
"daily bump"
"are there any plans to have a logo creator similar to the corp logo generator?would be nice to have different combinations to use.i know there is a logo submission if you make your own with photoshop.but the corp logo creator is there, so surely it cant be that difficult to mod."
"should probably provide more options for invention as well; as previous posts have suggested"
"i have a proposal for a freemium add-on for eve. this add-on would use the thin client tech and bring it to the customer.the approach would be as such:step 1 (windows client):this would be an eve client that basically works the same as when you are in a station. the 3d elements are restricted to opengl and kept very minimalistic. (there is a reason for this in a moment.) the ui includes market, chat, eve voice, etc. think eve gate in real time.step 2 (windows premium client):this client is enabled for a small additional fee. items similar to plexes would be available to pilots to trade and buy. the idea here is that due to the nature of ccps carbon platform, ui beyond combat and movement essential items are not needed in the main client anymore. this service allows for a true dual screen setup, logging into 2 clients at once. (eve [traditional] and eve: ccp). if the main client crashes, it would have to restart and not affect your eve: ccp client (thus leaving you logged into chat and eve: voice.) the benefits to having 2 clients up at the same time are enormous in my opinion. even on a single screen, because most of the ui is now disabled, fleet fights are free of clutter by minimizing the ccp client.step 3 (the i win button):this is where it can get really cool. remember that little thing called eve lite / eve mobile? well we now have the method and means to have this happen. mobile tech has gotten to the point where the arm architecture can produce full rich environments. and ccp just happens to have a client that takes very little cpu to use.enter: eve online for android and ios.mind you this is not a full client, but a port of eve: ccp. it does chat, market, voice, etc. you cant fly a ship with it. you cant walk around in it. but you can update your skills, browse the market, and talk with your corpmates.these are the things i would pay extra for. they are technologies that enable the user. they do not change gameplay imo. they do, however, change the way we game.ps: i could see how a client like this could be used for gms and isd to promote customer interaction."
"how about both and not charge for both. or is that too much to ask?"
"uhh paying extra for features everyone should have is a no.although i do like the idea of a mobile client for android.not supported"
"wait. so features that would take a great deal of development time to create and maintain and are outside the normal scope of the client are supposed to be \"free\"?last i checked ccp are not doing this because they want to lose money. they are making eve because they are making money doing what they love.yes, in time i could see more of what i proposed as being \"free.\" but it takes time and manpower to get something of this scope done. and, personally, i have no real problem paying for a service to see it come to life sometime soon."
"let me see.lacks content.cross posting.partial rant.magic 8 ball says lock incoming.but can i have your stuff since you are quitting."
"yes. :d i supported you, capitals just ruin the game."
"dear ccp...i assume that the creation of a new ship each year consumes considerable ressources. however, those ships are alsways completely useless. proposal:instead of creating useless stuff, let us vote each year which of the many ugly ships in eve we would like to be overhauled (graphically).like what you did with the scorpion..."
"i love my proposal"
"1. when viewing the information for a skill book, there should be an indicator to let you know that you have already trained that skill.2. super-gates (3 systems per jump)or much lower barrier to jump clones; there is too much grinding for rep.3. put in the title of blueprints either 'copy' or 'original'. so time consuming to identify them.4. so much grinding for corp reputation. you need to make it interesting or provide an alternate method.5. it's odd that the agent research (gaining research points) cannot be managed from the science and industry tab.6. allow agent research jobs to be stopped/started remotely based upon scientific networking skill, just like other research jobs.7. the variations tab for item information should show the meta level and sort by it.8. a ship told to stop should turn off it's afterburner9. ability to sell, refit, refine or manufacture with items from the ship cargo hold & storage containers. it gets tough sorting all the stuff based upon my intent for it. i then have to haul out the manufacturing materials to build something, but the items get mixed with the stuff that i plan to refine or refit my ship with.10. the context menu (right-click) for an item in the compare list should have a \"view market details\" entry.11. sales tax and brokers fees on in-game plex, how rude!12. on market groups screen display each item's attributes. when i have \"standard heavy missles\" selected, i can't tell the damage type of each missle.13. merge the station ownership icon (such as federation navy) with the station services to give me more room. put it on the left with a divider? why is it so big?14. increase the rewards for courier misions. i avoid them anyway, but if i am going to spend the time, i should get more than 4 loyalty points and 8k isk.15. remove the decimals on prices in the market. i do not care about 1/2 and isk, it just clutters the screens. perhaps add an option to hide them in the market settings. i have seen settings to turn them off elsewhere, that is nice.16. what's the deal with repackaging? is it really needed, wouldn't it be nice to eliminate? would it be so bad if my missle launcher removed from a fit would stack with other like missle launchers with the need to repackage?17. planetary interaction: needs a \"scan all\" to scan for resources at all inactive extractors. the player could select a common extraction time for all of them. alternately, the player would still need to select the extraction time for each.18. need hotkeys for the overview buttons: \"align to\", \"warp to default\", \"orbit at default\".19. it's funny that you can not orbit a planet :)"
"as per ccp adida's demands! who: everyone with the skill ore industrial. specified more for absolute newbs who cant quite jump into a mining barge yet. basically it's a t1 hauler with 1 miner with ship bonus of 100% to mining yield or whatever per level. while being a hauler with lots of room so it's easy mining.what: so everyone has seen t1 industrials with 1 miner on their ship going for hours without needing to goto a station to unload. this is basically a way to setup miners looking in the correct direction. that is to say ore ships as opposed to trying to go the racial industrials.where: anywhere there are roids.why: back in the day you could create gallente mining characters with mining 5; or even that minnie char with mining 6. you could quickly get into a retriever. this isnt true anymore. it takes fair bit of time to get into a mining barge now. done correctly the newbs have their 55,000 sp char train spaceship command 3, inject ore industrial. get mining up to get your t1 mining lasers going. they get to mining quickly. when: anytime there is mining."
"why should a newb jump straight into a mining barge? on this basis should each newb be able to jump into a battleship? each race has a mining frigate that gets a mining bonus and the osprey (for example) can be a great mining ship will a little effort. there are also numerous resources any player can turn to if they wish to begin mining profitably, not least the excellent halada's guide. i simply can't see the game value in doing this and infact this could be seen as a way to 'dumb down' the game.sorry, not supported."
"i would prefer if they ditched that stupid mining bonus on the scythe and osprey and change it to something useful, noobs who start do not know which race has what and wasting time cross training if you want to be a miner is silly.i would prefer that instead they greatly lower the time it takes to get strips and get the mining barge skill. but keep the same ammount of time it takes to get into a retreiver. that way there will be a use for the poor procurer. alway a shame when they waste a ship model no one flys."
"i'm new to eve online, very existed by the deepness of the game play... i've been working hard this week to gain my first millions isk through colony development, i was very proud of it until i discovered... plex.... almost a billion isk for only 36 usd... what is the point now to continue if this is just a matter of a few dollars?... i thought eve was a real demanding gamer oriented mmo, but i can see it has the same greedy marketing tricks that more commercial one... finally i'm not sure to want to go on, my motivation is gone... please, just remove this legal game spoiler"
"i'm not sure whether or not it's the broken english, the confusing syntax or the incorrect price of plex that confuses me, but this post delivers much headscratch"
"just don't use it and live happy in the knowledge that all the isk you earned was fair and/or square."
"think of it this way; you don't need to grind isk to fund your fun. \o/"
"ok, let me try again, though english is not my mother tong: you can buy in your account management a bundle of 2 plex (30 days each) for 34.99 usd (not 36, sorry). you can then sell it in the in-game market between 300 and 500 million isk each, therefore between 0,6 and 1 billion all together... which for the rookie i am is a real fortune (i make hardy a million a day)! so why shall i spend months struggling to earn what i can get with a few clicks and a few dollars? this is just like playing with cheating codes... not fun and demotivating to think that i'm playing a game where you can play with a vip statut if you pay more... and yes, i can just ignore it, which i try to do, but usually when you play a game you like to know every body has the same rules and constraints... and idk is the main constraint with skills."
"okay, well yeah that can be problematic but i don't think alot of people really sell plexes for isk, and the ones that do are terrible players, new, lazy or all three. i would honestly just not worry about it and look on the bright side ; you can play for free when you make enough cash!i don't know what you're doing wrong so that you're only making a mill a day, that's like 2 level ii missions... either invest in better ships, weapons and/or skills to allow you to run missions faster or go rat in nullsec. i'm struggling to think how you can make so little money apart from doing nothing"
"isk just buys you nice new ships to get blown up by someone with better player skills than you. character training, module selection, flying style and a bigger fleet will determine who wins a fight.if you'd like to find more in-game means of earning your isk, read the making isk guide to find interesting ways of getting it without using rl money."
"or you have more fun if you like to grind (or like industry or trading etc) you get to use your profits to pay for mutiple accounts with isk...have an alt in every region.. park cloaky scouts etc... all paid for via your game play effort that you enjoy."
"your an idiot if you think its game spoiling, it allows players to buy with in game money 30 days of game time, for about 380mil atm.if i buy 1 year of game time, its basically selling 6 months of it.supply and demand is at work. if every player bought plex for rl money the price would crash, since the demand is so high right now the price is high.1 year ago plex was like 200mil. i bought 4 plex's when i first played. 800mil is nothing. its like 1 freightor and a battleship. not to meantion you need skills to fly stuff.with current plex prices, a titan is about $2000"
"you need to look at the flip side, i play eve with 2 accounts for free by trading my spare isk for plex's."
"there is already such feature. just create several overview tabs and apply different filters on each. switch to your directional scanner tab and hit scan button and switch back to your overview tab right afterwards. it is a matter of 3 clicks."
"the purpose of this proposal is to provide some degree of protection to small gangs from hot-drops. if you have noticed a flaw in my proposal or have a better idea, post it, we are working towards a a common goal. to prevent every man and his dog fitting this module, it will be only fittable on a speshial shipclass, i am thinking of commadnships or battlecruisers at the moment. if you have other ideas, propose.i propose creating of a high or mid-slot module that shuts down all the cynosorial fields on the grid. you can still open cyno anywhere in the system, but you cannot do it right on top of the ship that has inhibitor.that means that if you are trying to kill a gang, you have to first tackle it, and also have a person off-grid cynoing, and the cynoed ships have to warp towards the place where fight is tacking place, and the tackle has to survive long enough. now, thats alot more effort that is needed currently. if an inhibitor is active on grid, then no cynosorial modules can be lit. if while a cynosorial field is already active, and an inhibitor appears on grid, the cynosorial field will continue it's normal ten minute cycle, but it cannot be jumped to. so, while you can still hotdrop a lone guy ratting, hot dropping well-organized small gangs is going to be difficult. your thoughts?"
"speaking as someone who got hotdroped by 5 moms in a gang of 8 cruisers.... i know, thanks invicta! having a mod that does that would be nice, but doubtful. im sure the post after mine will explain why."
"how about a different probe/bubble for dictors?works the same as the normal probe but cancels/prevents all cynos within its 20km radius.gives dictors something to do in lowsec, has a nice easy counter for the hotdroppers - get something to shot the dictors before you drop.really the whole dropping system needs a rework."
"interdictors have a probe that prevents new cynos and cancels active cynos would be great.hic's having a high slot ship type only module that projected a bubble much like the warp disruption bubble would also be great. use in low sec would also give a massive boost to low sec which is needed. having some protection from a hot drop on your head would encourage more small gang warfare."
"another option would be to make jumping only possible when the cyno has been lit for a full cycle. this would buy time to gtfo, kill the cyno, or call in reinforcements. reduce the cycle duration of course."
"i imagined someone sitting there for 10 minutes..."
"[hurricane, new setup please don't do this]reactor control unit iireactor control unit iilarge 'accommodation' vestment reconstructer iarmor kinetic hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iigyrostabilizer iicap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger iiy-s8 hydrocarbon i afterburners220mm vulcan autocannon ii, phased plasma m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, phased plasma m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, phased plasma m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, phased plasma m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, phased plasma m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, phased plasma m[empty high slot][empty high slot]medium ancillary current router imedium ancillary current router imedium capacitor control circuit ihobgoblin ii x5hobgoblin ii x1"
"lol, idiot."
"yup. does need a \"reason for report\" form. data would then be auto compiled until a threshold is reached (combo of number of similar complaints for same reasons) prior to being flagged to a gm. provides an intel tool to ccp so they can see what we all see regularly."
"great idea. at least having the option to begin collecting bot suspicion data via crowdsourcing could lead to interesting outcomes. seems like a simple and easy to implement tool."
"im all for this, as long as the current sovereignty mechanics apply for only 1 station, or they somehow change the system.also: if outposts were destroyable or maybe even just letting people wreck them this wouldn't be a problem."
"supported why ccp can have 10+station in some empire systems and in 0.0 players don't and i support the thing with sovereignty only one station to keep the sovereignty or remove the sovereignty from station to move it on ihub only and after soveranity is drop to can take a station in only 1 ref mode or even without ref"
"supported."
"this is exactly right. if this idea were to be implemented, the whole \"it will take more time to completely take over a system\" argument is foolish. it should take more time to completely take over multiple stations than it does to take over one station. whether that means each station would have to be attacked/reinforced separately, or each station has a shared hp that rises with the number of stations, or whatever.in any case, i think this is an very good idea. this feature wouldn't be overly burdensome to implement, as far as i can tell (although i'm by no means an expert on the eve architecture, so maybe it does), and, if that is the case, it should be seriously considered. the benefits of being able to deploy more than one station would be extremely significant."
"yeah, let's remove gates and belts, so people have nothing to fight over, so tehre is no lag, and there is better.. ow, wait, no, so there is no eve, only carebares in high-sec will stay. you don't get outposts for free, you have to build them. as long as that is the case, being able to deploy several outposts makes perfect sense"
"ded connections skill seems useless, no skillbooks around it's a 1x skill that no one is able to get, ccp should revive it and maybe add a 3x skill with it or get rid of it."
"controlled access dynamics? stargates don't count as this already? hotdrops don't work because cynos don't work there obviously, and megablobs happen because people in general are out to win, not to get fights. if they're not assured of winning you get a lot less people willing to join an opblobs have everything to do with local. try two different gangs: in one, tell everyone there are 5 hostiles and you've got 15 people, x up!. in the other, say you've got 15 people and there are some hostiles flying about but you're not entirely certain how many or in what ships. which gang will be bigger? the one where there's almost no risk of course. so yeah, local does contribute to blobbingthe problem is local wasn't designed as an intel tool, and ccp have been talking about changing it forever.notice the date on that post?"
"are you suggesting stargates and entering a wormhole are the same? i am not quite clear on that. because i thought fixed doors between a and b were substantially different from transient doors between a and b that collapse and need special equipment to be found, as well as have rules about the ships you can jump through, the number of such ships, and last but not least may close and leave your ships inside with the only way out being self destruct if not fitted with the right module.but yeah, stargates count as controlled access dynamics and are just the same"
"circular logic is circular. i didn't say it would change nothing, i said the negative impact you predict is a vast exaggeration.what is the effect of local? you bypass a system in half a minute or less because you know definitively there is nobody there. or you know there are people there and you know they are not potential targets. or you know your sworn enemy is there and now you are going to spend time hunting them down.what is the effect with no 'local'? you stick around an empty system for as long as it takes to satisfy yourself there is nobody there. or you see people on scan, but don't know they are friendly to you till you chase them down. or you miss your sworn enemy because you no longer have that absolute knowledge.local takes the most important sandbox dynamic from eve: random chance.then fix probing, make probes like fighters and have them chase targets down (after you find that target on 'd-scan', but you have to warp to the probe (like it was a fleet member) and not to a convenient bm. scan sees probes, so they would know there is a probe chasing them down if they are paying attention."
"so, wouldn't it be a lot harder to control transient doors that can collapse and need special equipment to be found versus a fixed gate that's always in the same location and leads to the same system? you were telling me it was a lot easier to control access dynamics in wh space weren't you? did you change your mind?"
"wtf is this i don't even.you need to work on your reading comprehension. i said that due to their nature it was hard to get ships inside wormholes. this is due to the nature of wormholes and not because the inhabitants do anything in particular (although a lot of them do bubble their pos's). wh's are secluded by their nature and that is why no local works.you need to learn to read and or lay off the crack.here is the quote again, see if you understand it this time: err, you know that no local in wspace only works because wsystems are very low traffic/deserted systems by their nature with very controlled access dynamics, right? and again:err, you know that no local in wspace only works because wsystems are very low traffic/deserted systems by their nature with very controlled access dynamics, right? i confuzzled by your intelligence."
"i would support this probing change. by the way what were the problems with warp to zero? i am very curious.as i said, no local may work, but for it to work, a lot of changes are needed (like the probes, for instance). those changes need to be done before even considering getting rid of local as it would cause a lot more problems than it would fix (and atm i don't really think it causes any problems. due to the date on the ccp quote about delaying it i would think either ccp agrees and decided local was fine, or they think the issues of changing it overweight any benefits.. which is my posture as well)."
"no one has thought of the obvious impact of this?constellation chat still has a total user number like local does, even in delayed mode.all you have to do is type a . in the channel and you see it.all carebear has to do is monitor this channel for any kind of increase in number, and pos up and he has a constellations worth of notice of hostiles/neutrals instead of a systems worth of notice?also, just re-read op.whats to stop the carebear/target warping to pos everytime the local channel count goes up instead of a new portrait popping up?fix in place, same effect as before?"
"? let's go over it again:so i challenged you: very controlled access dynamics? how are unpredictable wormholes more controlled than static gates?of course, you backed me up right awayi mean, fixed doors are surely easier to control than unpredictable collapsable doors that need special equipment to even find, right? surely?now we reach this:whoosh, you seem to have lost track of the thread and now you're off on a tangent about ships. we're not talking about getting ships into wspace. we were talking about how easy it is to control access to wspace versus controlling gates in nullsec, remember?"
"it is less likely to be visited for ws-space prey than it is for k-space prey, because roaming is harder (you named it, you need to scan for the gates to roam) and acquiring intel about what is in the system is harder too (d-scan, probes).now.. all the time the solo/small gang people tell us that w-space is their heaven.you gotta ask why that is - well, actually you don't, cause the answer is clear. it's harder to roam and harder to get intel.make travel longer (stealth wtz nerf), remove local./supported"
"i want in in the conversation you are holding with yourself in your head. it sounds exhilarating. i think we are having a communication problem here. i think the easiest way to fix is as follows:1. get a dictionary (google will do too)2. look up the word (words) or term (terms) that confuse you such. there is no shame in looking and noone will know, so look early and often!3. go over every post, read every word, and make notes. possibly highlight parts you don't understand (not on your monitor though, they will move if you scroll the text!)4. attempt this whole posting thing again."
"i don't think changing wtz is desirable or would change the dynamic. if you want the same effect then you need to get rid of solid gates, set transient gates that go to random systems, randomly close and have limits on number and size of ships going through, and disable cynos in every shape way and form.then you could disable local and have things work just as if you were in a wh system!"
"feasibility of that? how many false warnings will this create - constellation wide active population intel?anyways.. the whole intel system is a freaking cluster****. d-scan is killing the servers, if we need to rely on it more than now. mostly because probes can only be countered with d-scan and if combat probes are used correctly, they are a deadly thing without the ample warning of local.add on top of this the mismatch between pvp fit vs pve fits and the rewards in high sec compared to everywhere else and you see that it's fubar."
"the dynamic that's wrong is: a gang that is able to roam 30+ systems in a night and has instant intel about any potential targets.no wonder the prey is gone with such predators.if you'd make it harder for the predators it naturally leads to more prey sticking around.as for hot-drop protection.. any thoughts on a module/probe/etc that would work as local cyno-jammer (say 200km+)?"
"lmfao"
"not well done:) afk cloaking in a system then hotdrop ppl with blackops will be extremely easy"
"and how exactly are you proposing i hide from the military v status thingie, or are we not supposed to actually populate 0.0 but make it a deserted wasteland?or how do i hide from the number of npcs killed in the last hour. even if they would remove that, a raider then has to press scan ones in a system and look if he sees wrecks, or even a pve ship. i have to press the scan button every 10 seconds, going through 30 systems is quite a decent roam, he then has to press the d-scan button as often as i have to do in 5 minutes.removing local does not help the prey in any way, well except the macros a bit. but not those people who want to live in a succesfull 0.0 instead of an empty wasteland.and everyone who compares no-local whs to normal space is a bit weird. you may compare it when npcs switch fire and do omni damage, aditionally also all gates should then be probed down, move randomly, and connect to random destinations. also cynos need to be removed, together with supercaps. finally the gates need mass restrictions.when that is done, come back to compare it."
"no for high and lowsec.0.0 idk its hard to know the impact. spamming d-scan is not fun and is not a solution though, even if it was system wide it would be annoying at best.a delay to show up in local might work, not like wormholes, but after 5-20 seconds you show up in local like normal, at the same time, you cannot see anyone in local for the same 5-20 seconds."
"interesting idea. i think that folks will need to get used to more combat encounters, because unless you want to spend your life spamming d-scan, a hunter will find you. they are simply more motivated to use the available tools to do so."
"it really is this simple."
"what exactly are you referring to and why can't whatever it is be changed to accomodate the loss of the all seeing eye?my job will be more difficult with local gone. which is to find people to kill. map statistics can be changed or removed, it is useless data for anything but what you said. as for the rest of your points... chicken little."
"as per ccp adida's demands! who: everyone with the skills.what: imagine small-medium-large containers. often contain capboosters and ammo for pvpers. for pve we often dont have cans in our cargo. so imagine there were these minifactories that sit in your cargohold. so i'm running sanctums out in deklein in my kronos. i can loot ships and drop the lewt in my large can. it auto-refines the lewt at refining yield multiplier 0.15 x for large, 0.1x for medium, 0.05x for small. which is far worse then your worst pos refine array. you then also have a bpo in your cargo that is used to manufacture ammo. base time multiplier: 1 base material multiplier: 0.5; moreover small builds small ammo, medium builds small or medium, large builds all of them. where: anywhere there are pvers. so anywhere but lowsec?why: lets say i want to go solorat in 0.0. i can get out there fine but i can only bring 5000-7500 ammo. how long will that really last? i also have no intentions to do anything with the lewt. when: anytime there is pveing.additional: ore capship either rorqual variant or an orca variant whose ship bonuses improve these manufacturing and refining abilities of these cans."
"\"great\"as we are here, why don't remove mining from the game. if you want to have unlimited ammunitions use lasers. if you want to recycle the minerals in the modules you gather plant a pos.\"free\" ammunitions while ratting can be the dream of the people doing that 23/7 but will damage all other people."
"i would like the ability to drag a module to a slot that is already occupied and have it replace that module and put the old module in my items window. this would be comparable to how loading ammo functions now if you have a different type already loaded."
"dramiel needs to be buffed to at least 7 max locked targets because i lock 5 ships and kill them all. then i need to lock more. terrible."
"omg, that's just stupid--what if there was a nice shiny expensive ship u were locking but the 2 new targets being locked get locked first and u let the shiny one get away?sry but i can't support this. if anything, give the dramiel a 100 km bubble that functions at all times and to be able to warp, it would also have the same bubble immunity as a t3. now instead of 5, u can get all your targets!"
"you fit 5 warp disruptors/scrams on your dram?no, if anything t3's need to be able to lock one more target."
"this idea is pants on head, but you are on the right track. the problem i think is not that it can't target enough things, but that its firepower is not sufficient to kill things in a timely manner, thus clogging your target list unneccessarily for longer than it should be.i propose instead that we adjust dramiel's bonuses so that it better fits the solo pwnmobile role. something like this (not final)minmatar frigate skill bonus: 15% bonus to medium projectile turret falloff per levelgallente frigate skill bonus: 15% bonus to medium projectile turret tracking and 15 mb extra drone bandwidth and drone bay per level.yes, i say medium because i think the dramiel is long overdue for a powergrid and cpu buff so that it can fit meds.i believe this compromise proposal would solve the issue with number of targets."
"just give it a ****ing doomsday in each highsot. problem solved."
"the dramiel is not in need of being buffed.it's already on the point of being overpowered!"
"2/10 and only because you got some idiots to actually bite."
"locked. in the assembly hall you need to give a description of the idea that you are brining up to the csm. when proposing an idea just remember the w'swhowhatwherewhy whenyou are welcome to bring this topic back up to the csm with additional details; however, in its current state we are forced to lock it."
"the fix titans need is:- unable to lock any ships that are sub-capital- drone bay removedthere, a much better boost."
"make titan doomsday deal splash damage. ofource needs to be balanced so one titan does not nuke rr blob of 50 bs in one shot. although, we might get rid of rr gangs . splash damage might help against blob.and if you want to get rid of sc nuking poses, make pos we-war mods affect capiltals,at least warp disruptors and webs."
"yes."
"dumboms... and can we overload them please?"
"51 views and not a single reply , come on guys you must have thoughts on this"
"feature&idea discussion forums is what you're looking for."
"i put this idea up abotu 6 months ago and it was a littl eless refined and it got mixed reviews, hence i polished it up and put it here."
"yes on everything. if the upgrade is installed it will allow 1 supercap to dock in the station. if the upgrade is destroyed, the supercap will be ejected from the station without a pilot (allowing the attackers to take it or blow it up)."
"unacceptable, i demand the ability to impeach. also it should be done through a poll on the forums, and should be vetoable with a pic of your boobies if you're a female csm member*.*unavailable for ankh if she ever clears her name and runs again."
"well considering they have stated in the devblog that it is difficult to track bots and no 'botting bans' graph has been released, i dont think it is a stupid thing to ask about how they are tracking botters, assuming they are at all which is highly unlikely.reading my replies i notice i dont even ask for methods, just stats on it getting done"
"jita is a recognized hub of trading. since concord is supposed to be the protectors in high sec systems, it seems they would be more aggresive in defending against suicide ganking which i believe to be an element that is a hack in the game. jita is a special case and i think deserves special attention.some thoughts may be:1) concord destroys those that loot from wrecks that are not their own.2) there is a no-loitering zone within 10km of station or concord shoots. (like in basketball, 3 seconds in the key and its a penalty)3) provide \"intel\" on conditions outside before undocking. (warn of the risk at least)4) guns are inoperable within 5km of a station.anyway, this is just a thought. i have lost ships just trying to get out of a station and congestion/lag killed me with no chance to even put a a fair fight."
"no."
"yes clearly shooting at someone's spaceship in a game that is about shooting at people's spaceships constitutes \"hacking\", those responsible should be banned forever and preferably waterboarded by the cia.(no)"
"related to this kill mail loss maybe?"
"18 months, amiright?"
"it's going to take a while to transcribe the sessions and rough out our report. the economics session botting discussion revolved around ways ccp can improve bot detection, get a better handle on the scope of the problem and its effects on the economy, find economic attacks on the issue (reduce its cost effectiveness), and so on.here is my quick notes on the first two days:carbonation and core - a useful session that shed some more light on what this team of devs do; well received devblogs will no doubt continue to emanate from this group. incarna - after having done a lot of framework development work, ccp is now finally able to turn to the task of implementing this aspect of their ultimate sci-fi simulator. but what this means is that any player who expects something epic this summer will likely be disappointed. with respect to this initial release, my personal opinion is that they should ensure that the initial entry area is polished until it glows, as opposed to a more extensive release. after all, this will be the first time that all the new framework stuff is truly battle-tested, so some caution might be warranted. csm was united in insisting that no current gameplay be shifted into incarna (to force interaction with incarna, for example), and that players should have the option of entering incarna when docking in a manner that is functionally equivalent to the current docking hangar display (such as, for example, looking out a window at your ship, or being on a balcony looking up at it). furthermore, it was considered essential that there be no performance hit when doing a fast dock/ship change/undock as compared to the present day. ccp seemed to be very receptive to these suggestions. ccp's tentative plans for some additional gameplay that spans both incarna and in-space eve could be quite interesting imho, but it is too soon to make a solid judgement on them. we further urged ccp to communicate to the players as much information about incarna and their roadmap as soon as possible. however, one concern i have is that as this roadmap develops, ideas will be adopted just because they are \"awesome\". i am of the view that :awesome: is not a reason for doing something; it is the emergent result of hard work and careful thought. as urged by the csm in october, microtransactions will only be used for vanity items. some of the vanity goods that were discussed will most likely be well-received. the discussions on the eve economy and rmt were quite detailed and also spawned additional discussions over food and drink. i look forward to seeing what develops from these. forums - the next generation look very nice, and have some features that i personally like a lot. i plan to lobby for additional features that will be of use to everyone but can also be adapted to assist csm functions (ie: having cake and eating it too) we had an unannounced, and productive session with hilmar. however, one thing he said -- that ccp likes to throw stuff against the wall and see what sticks -- gave me some pause. that kind of approach is fine for a small company where the costs of failure are low. however, with over 600 employees, throwing stuff against the wall is not enough; you have to check and make sure that what is sticking to it isn't crap. with respect to the new neocon feature, it seems very nice, and bears close inspection. i was particularly impressed, once again, with the ui team, who came to our session incredibly well prepared. no doubt bara and katrin will in the near future not be the only members of the team to belong to the order of the spork, and they can expect some serious :csmlove: in the minutes. i must however end on a disquieting note: at dinner on wednesday, ccp explorer and i found ourselves actually agreeing on some issues. this was extremely disturbing to both of us at the time, but i can report that by the next day, the improbability field collapsed to 1:1 and normality resumed."
"friday:the 3-hour nullsec meeting with arnar and matt (greyscale) was a really intense and productive one.i'm not going to spill much about that meeting, except to say that the minutes of it will be extremely interesting, and that i now have a metric for a productive csm meeting -- it's one where we try and convince the devs to do things that will render them unemployable, and they try and convince us to agree to things that will render us unelectable. i heard things in that meeting that i didn't expect to hear. epic stuff, trust me. the meeting with qa was also quite enlightening; mynxee managed to skype in from a starbucks, and was represented at the table by a small red pod-shaped sugar-substitute dispenser that acted as a non-maskable interrupt. in the csm issues meeting we played a really interesting development resources allocation game that will feed back into resource planning. i have some quibbles about the game-design of this game-design game, but it might have some broader applications if they iterate on it. we finished the day with the fanfest meeting; we advised them that the players are coming for face-time with the rock-stars (devs) and not the roadies (us). some interesting new possibilities for fanfest activities were discussed."
"unacceptable, i demand the ability to impeach. also it should be done through a poll on the forums, and should be vetoable with a pic of your boobies if you're a female csm member*.*unavailable for ankh if she ever clears her name and runs again."
"well considering they have stated in the devblog that it is difficult to track bots and no 'botting bans' graph has been released, i dont think it is a stupid thing to ask about how they are tracking botters, assuming they are at all which is highly unlikely.reading my replies i notice i dont even ask for methods, just stats on it getting done"
"this thread was screaming for support. csm, keep bringing this up, even if only as small talk, keep it in ccp's mind, they will have to do something about pos's some day."
"make it happen."
"do we really have to keep bringing this up?really?"
"hats true... u wouldnt really be able to web slingshot freighters into warp bt if u had the skill that affects warpdrive charge up time ud be warping relatively fast on your own, though i doubt as fast as slingshotting.you would however spend more of the time at warp then in the accel and decel curves covering exponentially more distance at a higher velocity. as well as coming out of warp very close to your destination point!"
"cosmetic yesas this will open the opportunity for ccp to allow external intelectual property to be permitted in game. ie hello kitty titans. the micro transaction will permit ccp to buy the rights to post hello kitty products in game on a per user basis giving royalty to the company who owns the rights to hello kitty.i do believe though an isk option should also be available to purchase these goods. opening another isk sink.i want more developers in the game and if bob a who wants all of his fleet to be winter camo is going to pay for that developer at $1 a pop. then sure! the game has to change with the market. otherwise it will fade."
"hell no"
"proposed changes: wyvern and lowslot: aeon and nyx -1 midslot: reduce capacitor and/or capacitor recharge rate: reduce scan resolution: seperate fighter bay with room for full flight of fighters or bombers: regular dronebay of less than 1000m3: cap destabilizer and nos activation cost increase of 3000%: 30% reduced dps to fighter bomberswith these changes a supercarrier or even group of them would be much harder pressed to counter hictors, interdictors, and subcap fleets in general. the reduction of dps would finally allow titans to out dps them but keep a supercarriers dps high enough to fulfill their role as an anti capital ship. the nos/nuet removal hinders their ability to nullify hictors and to a lesser extent interdictors which are countered more by the scan res reduction.none of these changes would stop a supercarrier from killing capitals, only subcaps. you would be required to bring support to strip tacklers or defend against a conventional fleet.edit: oh and i am a long time wyvern pilot. this isn't about me hating supercarriers. it's pretty plain to see they are presently overpowered.alternatively here is a suggestion by xttzand just for folks who say this is a goonie troll or a whine about dev haxsploits i have this.later"
"ed, how do you see roles of different capitals in general? would make it bit easier to see your vision of cap warfare.obviously these are big nerfs but you are still leaving these ships with massively oversized tanks, especially on armor tank side (capitals with slaves )."
"this would go quite far to balancing them, with adding a weakness by forcing them to choose more what drones they take with them.still a bit worried though that they wont really get a seperate role from other ships.and obviously shield and armor supercaps should be rebalanced, but that is a matter of slaves and not of supercarriers specificly."
"i've been talking about these with ed in our jabber channel so its probably helpful to go through and explain some of the theory.these three changes are part of a package - by removing a slot from the supercap's 'utility' (usually capacitor mods) layer, and simultaneously reducing the cap/recharge, supercarriers are more vulnerable to energy neutralisation and less capable of sustaining unbreakable circle-reps when under attack.these two, again, work together. by seperating off the fighters and fighter bombers into their own bay, and reducing the drone bay to 'sensible' levels, we no longer see the situation where supercarriers are capable of launching endless waves of expendable drones against anything that threatens them. killing off drones will begin to affect a supercarrier's offensive capabilities , something that is not the case under the current system where they carry literally hundreds if not thousands of spare drones and can pop fresh waves out to replace casualties for hours on end.the fighter bay must be small enough that supercarrier pilots have to choose between fighters and bombers, and without room for more than a couple of spares. this would mean, again, that supercarriers would need to take some care to manage their fighters and it becomes a viable tactic for opponents to pick them off to reduce the supercarrier's damage output.having said all of the above, these are the two that me and ed don't agree on!my preference to the neut/nos modifier would be to remove one or two highslots from all supercarrier hulls to reduce their ability to omni-fit the highs, and to force the pilots to make a decision at the fitting screen about whether they wanted anti-tackle utility (neuts and smartbombs and remote ecm) or a set of remote rep circlejerk mods. as it is, supercarriers have no fitting decisions to worry about, and that makes for poor design.as for the fighter-bombers, to me their dps isn't the problem so much as their ehp, although admittedly ed has a point that supercarriers are frequently able to both out-gank and out-tank titans. i'd like to see fighter bombers reduced in velocity and hitpoints by around 20%, and increased sig radius by around 20%. this would make them more vulnerable to being targeted and picked off by anti-support subcaps, so supercarrier pilots would be less able to simply launch bombers against any target with impunity, would be more reliant on subcap support to tie up those ships that would otherwise be blowing up their bombers, and would need to pay attention to more ships on the field than just the dictors and the capitals."
"looks pretty good, i'd personally leave the poor hel out of the lowslot removal."
"should work as intended, will certainly make them susceptible to neutralization.while i understand i appreciate the idea behind it, i fear that it will once again make them far too hard to manage resulting in a few thousand pos ornaments.problem is the size of the drones, where are they supposed to \"reload\"? for the sc fleets that we all know and love (heh) you would need entire pos dedicated to just storing the swaps, even on \"small scale\" it benefits larger entities far more than smaller due to isk/logistics concerns.in another thread i wrote the idea of having a hangar deck on the sc themselves where bombers/fighters are stored when not in drone bay. make the difference between the two amount to a couple of drones and you avoid the insta-swap in combat.f.bombers really need to be made much more vulnerable to sub-cap assets if scs are to maintain their absolute ehp/dps advantage over everything else.personally think that the 20% tweaks are too little, they are cruiser sized, moving at cruiser speeds which in it self takes bs counters out of the equation (blobbing excepted). they need to be double signature for it to have any impact i think.whichever way it is handled there still needs to be reliable counters available to super-fleets which this unfortunately does not provide, at least not on its own.in short: a good start, but not enough. tentative support."
"posting an amended list. the focus here is to make supercaps more susceptible to sub-caps, and improve the usefulness of dreads+carriers.: titans: standard doomsday reduced to 50km range, same damage: mid-range dd script - 125km range, 1mil damage: long-range dd script - 200km range, 250k damage: cannot activate dd on non-capital or non-supercapital ships: supercarriers: reduce scan resolution: turn current drone bay into fighter/bomber only bay.: regular drone bay of 250m3 (400m3 nyx): aeon armour reduction 1.1m -> 975k: nyx armour reduction 1.05m -> 950k: wyvern shield reduction 1m -> 975k: hel bonus change -> +5% shield hp per level: all sc's can deploy 1 additional drone per level: role bonus: each dcu allows for 3 additional drones: (no change to current bandwidth): tackling: anchorable bubbles cannot be targeted by bombers/fighters: new module for af's - focus point with 10-15km range.: new bubble probe for interdictors - 30km range, only affects jump drives and not warp drives.the net result of this is:supercarriers must choose between pure damage and the ability to remote rep each other. a rr-circlejerk fleet will now do much less dps, while a fleet that focuses on dps will need carriers to support it.supercarriers are much more vulnerable to dictors and hics. no more waves of 1k drones that alpha any tackler at no risk to the supercap fleet. and no more tens of thousands of spare drones degrading server performance.long-range dreadnought fleets are now more viable against titans. massed titans will now need to coordinate doomsdays to be as effective.all supercaps will find it tougher to shake off tackles without a support fleetassault frigates finally get a usful role. yay."
"i like this proposal."
"sure why not."
"as a supercarrier alt (curently without supercarrier fortunately) i support this proposal."
"i support this."
"sounds good."
"supported, need supercarrier nerf before they ruined the game."
"why not. supercaps need to be change.(sc pilot)"
"as an aeon pilot i think it's a great idea. it needs to happen."
"supported.and it's time to remove the supercarriers ew immunity."
"no.i am all about nerfing super caps some but let us not forget how much these things cost compared to a normal capital. back to the topic, i simply can not support this unless all drones are banned from super capitals. especially super carriers. they have many tools at their disposal that allows them to leroy around solo and get away. one of them that needs to go is the ability to field ecm, neut and light drones to fight of hic's and dictors. support ships is what should be used to protect the super caps from that stuff."
"looks good but first they need to fix the way shield bonuses apply.cause taht already gimps shield supers"
"a big step in the right direction for sure"
"needed, good, supported."
"cost in itself isn't a factor to balance around - state ravens cost more than titans, does that mean they should get ewar immunity too? what if i officer-fit a rifter?(i actually agree that the e-war immunity should stay, just not for the reason you give.)"
"then you're dumb for officer fitting a rifter. these should not be vulnerable to ewar"
"i support the idea of reducing supercap effectiveness against solo pvpers and small roaming gangs.either make them less effective, or give me a chance to solo it."
"bump."
"i would keep the current belts in place but add to itoften mining is used as a something you can pay a small amount attention to to do, waiting those 3 to 1.5 minute cycles if you are using strip miners depending on booststhis is from my experience from null sec and makes a nice entry step for newbsi would recommend adding though a layer of content beyond this, more scanable belts, a secondary mining mechanic that needs to be adjusted every 15 seconds to keep the mining yield of ore to a maximumas more entertaining side effect. mercoxite is the only one with gas clouds which makes hauling and mining a little more tactical when it pops up. even though they are currently sure easy to avoid. a small cow paddy in the middle of the belt was entertaining"
"no, i will have put up the interceptor or frigate, then be out mining with dscan up. or, if in nullsec, simply local and intel up. exactly like now, with the added benefit that they can't just warp to a belt to find me.i'm not keen on nerfing them, but i would like to see them as more of an event. as i said.. a mining op should exist because some really nice grav site was found, not because its tuesday.heck, add some excitement to the process.. a scout finds an amazing grav belt, but its unstable and will break up in 2 hours. hugely profitable though. at which point the corp/alliance should be dropping everything and have an all hands operation to gather as much good stuff as possible before the belt poofs, with people on hand to watch gates, haul, and needing rorqal support because like as not this isn't in a system with a station handy.group mining ops should occur when you find something special, just like how group combat ops occur when you find a complex.for normal ops, because it is indeed tuesday, you would still be able to mine in groups, but you would need a dedicated scout out searching for new sites because you are burning through them so fast. you may have to leave system, meaning, again, rorqual support is needed. it becomes rather more like npc hunting, in that you can't just warp to a belt and get spawns for the next 8 hours. you have to be in constant motion, out searching, finding new ones to kill.no. i would expect them to, during the course of their mission, glance at the roids and see if anything fancy is there, then tell that to other people who might want to come and mine it. some may come mine it themselves, and some may not bother at all. if its valuable enough, they may even sell the location.the fact that the asteroids already exist there, but are dismissed out of hand without so much as an inspection is a problem, not a good thing."
"okay so if im getting this you want to make all belts grav sites. atm you cant use the dscan to find grav sites. you need a probe ship and skill training in such to find anything worth the time it takes moving a hulk and orca to mine the damn thing. are you saying it would be made easier to find grav sites using the dscan? or are you saying that every mining whos done months of training for a hulk, paid for a second account spents months training an orca pilot now have to train to probe as well? cause i dont wanna train for probing. its not something im interested in. i dont think its even beinging to come close to being fair to expect miners to now start probe training. i get people want a couple of twicks made but unless the dscan is changed or a mining module made for hulk pilots to use. belts have gotta stay. not to mention they are a field for pvp in low sec."
"belts would still exist, they'd just have low grade ores. not very profitable, because they are not very challenging to find, and are everywhere.there would be a range of mining opportunities from simple belt mining that any day 1 newb could do, to rare highly valuable grav sites that are difficult to probe and have a very tight time limit on them needing a fast response by a lot of people in many assorted ships to take full advantage of, with the payoff varying accordingly.you don't want to learn to probe or dscan? thats fine. you shouldn't have to. you should make plenty less money though, since you don't want to add to your effort or skill investment."
"mining in high sec is already low income, and probing grav sites which i have done with limited skills on another toon i have has found me some omber, but seeing as thats already minable in gal space. probing was pointless."
"this is not working yet."
"no. if friendly logistic drone happens to be closer they go for that instead. or some npc structure beloning to guristas if you take a shot at guristas npc during past 15 minutes. regardless of falcon sitting 1 km further and jamming the crap out of you.the simplest fix would be assigning every entity in grid that you have 'agression' with a signal strenght. then fof would just pick a highest signal entity and try to hit it. range can be factor as well if so desired. positive things one can to would have 'negative' sig strenght, so one can not just ecm the crap out of you and not be an fof target bcos he has small remote shield transfer on you, unless the amount of reps is higher than 'threat' of ecm on you. passive structures would have relatively low signals so they would be considerably lower in the target priority list. example: a guristas stargate at 2 km, a light drone on you at 3 km, a rifter scramming you and shooting you at 7 km and falcon at 60 km jamming you with 5 racial ecm. so when you load fof and blast away then it has 4 targets to pick from. a structure sig/2; a drone sig/3; a rifter sig/7 and a falcon sig/60. preferably the fof would hit either falcon or rifter, certainly not the nonthreatening stargate and perhaps hit the light drone if other stuff is far enough."
"yes it should be build in as a bonus.thorax got a useless mwd cap bonus(+200 base cap, done).brutix got a useless rep bonus(extra med, done).mega got a usefull tracking bonus, however the web bonus would be far more use- and powerful in a blaster setup(rails need more tracking after all, so no real handycap).the diemost and astarte changes are a bit more complex and would be to much effort to write down here(visit shc and check out the 25 pages diemost thread if you like)."
"i guess you could tie the reload time to gun size. between and within size groups."
"no, that would be extremely overpowered, webs got nerfed for very good reason. if you want overpowered webs on blaster platforms go buy faction.having said that, large and small blasters are pretty much fine anyways, and the problems with medium blasters is not the weapons, but the ships.thorax lacking grid, brutix lacking grid and having a repping bonus that it cant use, deimos lacking grid, astarte lacking grid and having the rather questionable repping bonus as well.give them the grid they need, give brutix falloff or tracking bonus instead of rep bonus, give astarte tracking for rep bonus, done."
"the number of people complaining to die against blaster ships at point blank was exactly zero. large blasters are not fine outside of hugging undock points in empire. also the price tag of 150, 300, 800 m doesn't make blaster pvp attractive at all, i yet have to see a single vigilant/vindi that was good because it was a well flown gank ship instead of just being a better tank. i do however have seen people that did rage a lot because her dd, even with well flown expensive gank fittings, is a losemail waiting to happen. because it is a balls deep one trick pony, not a very save ship to fly."
"i agree that rails and blasters need attention, though perhaps not this attention. i would suggest 10% increase in blaster tracking, 10% increase in rail damage, and a 25% reduction in cap need for both.these three changes address most of the issues with as little development as possible."
"people complaining or not is irrelevant, what is relevant is that we do not need throwaway t1 18km 90% triple webber platforms at every gate. that kills small gang and solo pvp. it also practically removes any kiting tactics whatsoever.if people want their easymode iwin buttons, they need to pay for them.also, large blasters are fine for general bs work. compare the damage projection of a mega to that of a pest. the only issues are with medium blasters, and that are mainly the platforms, not the weapons."
"this is exactly the same whine people started as serpentis ships got changed, nothing happened. funny since the pest got the far better damage projection in any situation that isn't point blank pvp(where both suck)."
"where did you get 18km webs? i whant those too!"
"] (notify) for your part in the destruction of an abaddon your security status has been adjusted by -0.5417...."
"serpentis ships arent that regularly used as they are quite expensive.a thorax you'll see everywhere, and not as a blaster boat, but as a throwaway webber brick.loki alts are pretty much everywhere, i'm afraid your argument that people are not gonna use a 5mill ship all the time when they dont use a 300mill ship now doesnt stand. at all.funny since it isnt true. roll in a rr bs gang and you'll see a mega is on par with the pest for the whole range that matters."
"yes yes yes please ccp we really need to tell the difference between bpc and bpo i mean...why not ??"
"i would really really like to see it happen."
"numbers need tweaking there only to show the idea. ok so u have 10 hours per day of isk making. you get 30 isk making credits per day to spend on the professions. you use up credits as you do your profession. ratting 20mins = 1 creditmining 20mins = 1 creditl4 mission x 1 = 1 creditl3 mission x 2 = 1 creditl2 mission x 4 = 1 creditl1 mission x 4 = 1 creditmission rats dont count to ratting. tweak the numbers to represent the allowed isk making time. this way u can limit professions without bots mining in the day and ratting over night. can be more than 10h a day just make it less then now 23/7. means players can compete with bots kind of. also can be weekly so 70h per week reset in stead of daily. end result is to get bots to make a lot less and players to make the same."
"or add a game-time restriction to the 30 day plex, so whichever of 200 hours or 30 days arrives first causes the licence to expire?"
"they will just bot and buy 2x plex. adds more cost but 2 plex per account per month is not to much for a botter. my way there money is halfed and player can compete."
"the solution to botting is to break the ways that bots operate and catch those using it. what you're suggesting is effectively to admit defeat and legitimise a certain level of botting, which would force every player in the game to go out and buy a 10-hour bot just to keep up with the rest. at the same time, you're penalising those players with enough red bull stockpiled to sit in front of their pc legitimately ratting for 12 hours on their days off work.that's stupid."
"i dont want to legitimise a certain level of botting. still ban bots as much as now. but my way limits how much they can earn till there banned. for the red bull guys i did say it can be a weekly reset also 10h is just a example. could make it 16h so at least the bot rests for 8h. that would be 112h weekly reset."
"could work, considering this isn't based on game time just on \"bot time\". tweaking could also follow with a little work from ccp on the average ratting / mission running from normal people. and botters will still be banned normally aswell so this would limit and help the normal 3-5hour players alot."
"the credit idea isn't too bad but the play time timer is terrible. i spend way more than 200 hours a month logged in. i'm not necessarily playing, but i'm logged in. i run my own business from home so i'm off and on throughout the day. incidentally, i spend very little time doing pve. an hour per day at most, the rest is chatting, afk or pvp. as proposed, the credit idea allows for 7.5 hours of lvl4 grinding per day at 15 minutes per mission. that's an aweful lot of missioning and is a fair limitation. alternatively it allows 10 hours of ratting/mining. it won't kill off bots of course, but it does limit their effect some."
"if ccp would give us the ability to wardec individuals in npc corporation, then we could goto war against marco miners and mission runners who hide inside npc corporations."
"making a mobile phone interface to pi alone seems to be the logical step."
"yeah. and imagine making eve voice work on an android thin client! or jita local at the pub!"
"okay so jita is the home of a couple of this, station gamers to sad to actually go roam. scam artist to emo and overweight to ever leave and of course lag. this gets even worse whenever ccp adds new content because the world and their four alts all rush over to jita the moment the update goes live. so what to do. what if ccp made jita, dox, and amarr each their own, 1 system region. then when you docked at say jita 4-4 you got access to not only the jita market, but the dox and amarr markets also. you then could buy any item in those 3 systems. if you buy items in amarr from jita you get the option to transpot them to jita for a set price per item or m3. this option alone would mean not every one rushes to jita to sell, buy or trade items all the time. it means maybe jita local isn't always at 1400 people and gives those that live close buy to one of the other market hubs an easier round trip then x amount of jumps to jita and back."
"bbbb uttt why yaay..... whyyyyyyyyyyyyseriously tho i can see arguments for and against. the basic problem being there is no efficient counter other than clipping the fighterbombers and sacrificing ships to the dd."
"absolutely disagree. cap pvp is my favourite pvp.supported."
"this isn't the way to fight back at pl yaay."
"i actually saw someone flying one of these earlier!i noticed it because out of 45 people in system, it was one of the few that wasn't a mackinaw, a hulk or an orca!!"
"there have been a few times when i am at a gate and all i can think is what the hell is that. then i remember there are 3 barges. maybe i will see one this month but i won't hold my breath."
"no do the god damn training. eve isn't a sign up click and do everything game. train! like everyone else has and does."
"as per ccp adida's demands! who: everyone with logswhat: basically request is log management options in the esc menu. set max amount in mb of logs to be kept. also age of logs to be kept.where: anywhere there are logswhy: my current setup is 11 days old and i already have 60 mb of logs. in the past i have seen the logs get to like 1.5 gigs on old setups. furthermore there are 7 billion single files which have nothing other then the output saying the logfile was created. huge waste of io. when: anytime there are logs"
"currently if you find a topic you think is important enough to throw your full support behind you have to log off and log on multiple times to add support to that topic with all your accounts. my proposal is to make it possible to 'group' your ingame accounts for forums purposes so that if you have 'grouped' all your accounts you will have more than one 'support this topic' button available. say you have 5 accounts active and 'grouped' then you can add up to five 'thumbs up' for the topic in question."
"i support my own topic. for a start once."
"lets make it twice."
"three is the charm i hear."
"four! i should get a life."
"khm. am i innocent looking enough? needless to say i got unforeseeable urge to support this topic for some reason."
"yes."
"yesbecause i pay more i deserve more votes"
"i only have one account, but this would make things easier for those who do."
"i support this simply cause i'm curious to see how many accounts people have"
"are you implying you can't just buy enough plex to have a few billion for a better character?because you can."
"bolded the keyword for you.also, i very much do like playing games for free."
"confirmed for rmt loser whose business is failing because plex exists.supported."
"so let me break down what you're saying.a new player, with zero understanding of this game, wants a drastic game changing element removed because it makes him feel sad?lol no."
"once you win at eve you won't be selling plex for isk, but making enough isk to buy plex."
"we did live quite happily before they were introduced you know so wouldn't call it a drastic anything. it is like taking the tv away from a modern family, its a luxury, nothing more, pigs are still firmly on the ground.despite the ops age he does have a point, the ability to transfer real world assets into game at the drop of a hat has had an impact on the game, it is i think at least partially responsible for the change to capitals online.@op: eve, unlike practically all other mmorpgs, is not about the destination but the journey.as your skills and thus access to better hardware improve you'll never be strapped for cash ingame and you'll have a lot of various ways to make it .. i have found it best to combine various activities (missions+industry for instance) to maximize output.as for suggestion, no thank you. i have not paid a single cent since plex were introduced and would like it to remain that way .. the less parties that has access to my cc data the more secure it is."
"my friend, a rookie pays the same monthly fee as you do and has the same right to express his view as everybody, right? you may not share my view, but if you decide to argue, just give arguments. not all mmorpg allow to buy in game credit with real money and i'm quite disappointed to discover that this game, which impress me a lot, does... it is against the spirit of the gamer i've been for more than 20 years now... i have just a couple of weeks in eve online and i enjoy it very much, focusing for now on level 1 mission and colony management. but i'm quite sure, from the discussions i've had with my fellow corp members that i'm not the only one to disapprove plex. now, it is just my point of view and you don't have to agree."
"a couple weeks? so you barely have a grasp on half the mechanics and you want to cut out a part of the game that's been around for half a decade? don't let the door hit you on the way out."
"same up. give me an argument in favor of plex, boy, or move your way."
"they help people who have financial problems irl play an mmo despite your hissy fits."
"i see... this is the charity side of the game, therefore... i'm too selfish, you are right..."
"you are whining like a spoiled child."
"purpose of plex is that young players (who sell plex for isk) subsidize bitter vets (who buy plex with isk).this way the bittervets keep their accounts active even if they have lost interest in the game because for them it is \"free\".(and new players getting a tempban and possibly negative wallet for purchasing isk from a 3rd party website within the first few days/weeks of playing might not be good for customer retention.^^typical new player behavior: runs the first few tutorial missions, asks in npc corp chat \"what's a good ship to have?\" - reply is \"raven\" or \"golem\", new player looks at the market, looks at his wallet, looks at the market again to double-check the number of zeros- and at that point he either asks a more experienced player \"wtf is up with prices - it will take me years to buy anything!?!\", says \"screw it - what a dumb game\" or he remembers his rl income and looks for an opportunity to buy isk.)"
"i propose being able to conduct a directional scan without such tab-switching."
"need for speedfleet of 500, 20 of them clicking directional scan with no-filters every 2 seconds looking for combat probes.lag much?this needs to be added to reduce load on the servers regardless of it's ui advantages."
"supported"
"yep!"
"great idea."
"i unsubscribed several months ago and just returned to see if the quality of eve has improved. i am sad that it seems to have gotten worse play wise. they are several thread deal with marcos to ore prices. i wish to address lowsec. currently lowsec is broken and for the average pilot unplayable. when you have two man t3 cruiser gang that can perma-camp a gate and instant lock killing everything, then the average pilot has no chance. when you have a two man faction bs/carrier gang perma-camp a station instant lock killing everything docking or undocking for hours, then the average pilot has no chance. currently there is very little risk to a faction bs/carrier team. if we do catch the bs and we have enough dps to kill him, then he simple docks his bs into the carrier and pods away. the same applies to the t3 team. i suggest and i have no hope anyone will listen.1. buff station defenses to mirror that of a large pos. give that carrier that remote rep a bs with gcc agression so he has to waits 60 seconds to dock. prevent pilots from using a carriers hanger then the carrier has agression. this would put some risk into camping a station with a bs/carrier team because then a small gang can catch and kill an agressed bs/carrier. second the station's defenses would clean the station after a minute or so. this would not stop pirates from gank on stations, but it would prevent them from being perma camped giving the average pilot a chance.2. buff gate defenses to mirror that of a large pos. give that average pilot a chance. put some risk in a t3 cruiser team camping a gate. give agression to logistics that remote rep; so that, they cant excape an ambush by jumping the gate. add citadel torpedo battery, point, web, etc. to scale up the defenses. put a 60 second delay of that extra defense making a gank possible, but preventing a smaller gang from perma-camping a gate for hours.3. make crime hurt. if you have a -5 standing with a faction then you cant dock in their stations. if you have gcc, then you cant dock in any station until your timer expires. force those pilots to fight and do not allow them to hide in station. these would make lowsec a bit more playable. it would not prevent ganks from occuring on gates/station, but would prevent gate and station from being perma-camped 23/7 with little risk to the campers."
"bye and have fun playing wow.(i agree with some of your opinions but there are tons of threads about this)gime your stuff"
"you are right that low sec would be way more populated if not for gatecamps (i have less issues with station camps, they arent as much of an issue with insta undock/redock), and that in the end pirates would have more targets. but this topic will soon be flooded by pirates who want to boost low sec by making it even easier for them to catch targets, since they dont realise that will only result in less targets."
"agreed but need other changes too.too much sup capitals now in low sec.need remove their fighter bombers abilities there or need something changes like cynojammer in low sec too.big 0.0 corps looking for ganking their targets there and blobbed with 30 sc a simple drake. lolit's so pathetic."
"supported. even when pirates aren't gate camping with a scout on the other side to spot camp busters, they still cloak in safespots or stay docked til they get a bite. all reward, no risk."
"if we could have the ability to optionally make the top half of our module icon overload and the bottom half regular usage (or just expand the area that makes it overload) that would be pretty cool.or when we get our hotkeys(tm) add an overload mod hotkey. :)"
"i support my idea. :)if i need to get rid of the hotkeys thing to make this float, that's fine.also, the 5min posting rule shouldn't apply to people immediately after they write an op in this forum."
"easier to click, and easier to tell the thing is turned on. slightly greener green just doesn't do it. make it change orange or something more obvious."
"i dont know ccp why changed ~1 year ago the old shift+click method, which is turned on the modules with overheat.need bring back."
"i've never missed the overload button, but i agree- it'll be a lot easier to click on bigger button.supported."
"yeah, in the heat of the moment, no puns intended, trying to find some tiny little thing is a pain. shift click was just fine."
"heat ui could definitely do with a usability overhaul."
"there was suggestion to overload modules with middle mouse click, it is a great ideatop half overload is too much imosupporting because aiming for green stripe is annoying as hell"
"yeah not too sure how to implement exactly, but ... this is more an improvement request than a specific thing."
"it gets confusing sometimes in ecm ships for example. if you click the single button on the hud to overload all mid slots ( jamming and mwd ) but don't want to actually overload the mwd you disable the mwd overload. to now turn off all the modules from overloading you can't select the same button to turn off all the mid slots from overloading. all modules need to be activated to turn them all off at once. also takes full cycle to enable or disable visually and i have been confused especially with some short and some long cycle modules mixed together. sorry bad punctuation and grammar."
"i'll agree with this one."
"thanks to everyone who contributed to the thread. when you see the summit minutes around new year's day, i think you'll find that many of these topics were touched upon."
"unstickied by request"
"fix hybrids/gallente ship line up"
"my topicthis is just one topic in regards to graphic updates that could reduce lag for the game. i'd like to ask the csm to bring up my topic as well as questions in general about graphic updates to older structures in the game. for example: 1)since incarana features the stations, will the exterior if stations see a face-lift as well? 2)the return or newer/better cyno graphic? 3)my topic i linked discusses the ancient 'poof launch' of missiles and how the fb fix could be incorporated.all in all, i'd like it if ccp (or the csm, or both!) could produce a list of graphic updates they and the players are interested in that don't affect the actual mechanics of the game. i believe this is important because half of a game is the way it looks, the other half being how it plays. eve is a fantastic game to play but i think the game could use some love in certain graphical areas. perhaps the csm could create a quick poll of \"what graphics bug you?\" or some such to see if the player base can point out any sore-thumbs.thanks folks!"
"stopped reading there...i try not to read words that do not exist or only exist in the urban dictionary."
"you know whats an awesome idea..... understanding that hot drops are a tactic of pvp and that the risk is all on the offenders side not the defenders side.not to mention anything coming out of a hot drop isnt gonna beable to tackle a cruiser gang.... unless its a portal hotdrop. at which case gtfo before they load. not supported due to bad argument.if you'd made the argument about strategically holding a grid or such for defensive ops or offensive ops, that would be different but if the main goal is to counter hot drops thats a no go."
"op has already gotten what he desires."
"understanding that just about any hot drop contains one or more sc means that there is little to know risk for the attackers. if you drop one ore two sc you win the games and unless you stir up a bees nest in the system you jumped to your just about garented to escape after quickly reducing your target to dust. and the cyno lighter is generaly smart enough to find a system thats active enought to get kills but not in any major alliances back door.on the op a module for a new ship or the interdictor/ h interdictor that prevents cynos on grid/ shuts them down would be a good idea"
"i actually suggested something like this but instead of anti hotdrop as something to facilitate them. a capital interdictor who's bubble stops cynos from being lit within it's interior. takes a massive amount of cap to keep going, required energy transfers to keep it running and has about 70km radius in which it inhibits any and all cyno effects. jumping out, jumping in, even warping if you're a capital ship. even currently lit cynos within the effect would be rendered inoperable but the cyno ship would still be rooted in place. jump in, start up anti cyno ship(which is now rooted for 10 minutes) and go to town on the hostile caps who can no longer cyno in help within rep range of capital reps. you can also no longer cyno in more capitals but this would finally give us a way to properly hold down capitals without inhibiting subcaps. black ops bs and covert cynos would be immune to this bubble as well. rorquals and jump freighters would notin short- t2 version of dread or carrier(probably carrier)- 3-7b to be determined by the dev designing it- several times the hp of it's t1 counterpart- only as insurable as any other t2 ship- bubble only inhibits capitals.- no jumping to/from cynos while within the bubble- 7.5% repair bonus per level, 5% resist bonus per level- 40km radius bubble unscripted. immobile while activated and for 1 minute afterwards- unable to jump for 10 minutes after deactivation- scripted 80km radius. 95% reduced cap recharge.- no additional high slots to discourage cap transfering several to create cap out of thin air and be self sufficient without support."
"the common ground between all these schemes is that they all share the problem of what happens when a party cynos to a station or whatever and activates their anti-cyno thing to keep the defenders from counter-dropping any caps of their own. just halve the jump range of carriers/supercarriers"
"do you realize that this would trap every supercap in the region of its birth?"
"as usaul i agree with ed's it is a solid idea and without the label of anti hotdrop device"
"ok, who the hell ould ever field that useless ship?if you want to kill someone, cyno elsewhere and then warp to them, not very difficult. if need be get an interdictor to buble them hwhile you are in warp. what i don't l;ike is fleets of several thousand people dropping on your head out of nowhere. this way you need to actually think."
"anyone who wants to keep supercaps and a large capital fleet tackled while stopping them from bringing in reinforcements. that's who."
"people just dont understand that active armor and active shields are different.shields is large duration large alpha, large cap drainarmor is smaller duration smaller alpha, moderate cap drainthis is why when you look at armor you look at taking 2 reppers and cycling them so that they fire at different times. while shield reps are all about timing you pulse them because running them is extremely cap intensive.for large armor you perma run 1 rep and pulse a second, and your better off than an xl shield booster, which is one large alpha rep and huge cap drain followed by a large wait."
"we (armor fits) have the slowest rep rate with the biggest cap use and the only real interesting mods (over 1000un/rep) cost over 1bautocanons are fine"
"there is a xl shield booster, but no xl armor rep.there is a xl armor plate, but no xl shield extender."
"large armor rep 2pg 2300cpu 55ac cost 400gjduration 15 secondsboost 800hplarge armor rep *2pg 4600cpu 110ac cost 400gjduration 7.5 secondsboost 800hpxl shield boosterpg 550cpu 230ac cost 400gjduration 5 secondsboost 600hpmedium armor rep 2pg 178cpu 28ac cost 160gjduration 12 secondsboost 320medium armor rep *2pg 356cpu 56ac cost 160gjduration 6 secondsboost 320large shield booster 2pg 165cpu 115activation cost 160duration 4 secondsboost 240if you notice the xl shield is 1 third the cpu on a maelstromwhile 2 larges is less than 1 fifth of the hyperions powergridthe idea of armor reps was to dual rep them while shields being single boost thats why theres less steps to armor reps but they are easier to fit."
"woot? shields deal massive alpha? *alphas a ninja salvager with his xl shield booster give armor reppers alpha damage as well! full support!"
"the team responsible for evegate shut out all suggestion of using any existing techs web2.0 or otherwise.it's likely that they've all been moved on and evegate will never again see any improvements.ham-strung from it's birth, it will never go anywhere.edit: checkout eve-mail.net"
"eve gate is the largest pile of #### i've ever seen in my career as a pilot.it's a total waste of time and an insult to this game.as much as i love ical and its abilities to get things done... it wouldn't do it justice to integrate anything eve gate to ical or even outlook.i would rather see them scrap eve gate and get back to the job of fixing their product.not supported with extreme prejudice."
"make eve gate usable on obile devices, otherwise it is worthless. all i can do from it that i cannot do from eve-mon, is send eve mails. for that matter, i can also send mybcorpmates normal emails onto their real emial with much greater ease. not very usefull."
"nonpaying ruiningpayingsolve the problem."
"som' idea 4uships concorded - 0 insurance reiboursementheavy insurance penality for concorded player with cd 1 monthoverpower concord/police guns (one shot) ortake out of the game every pve contentgive ability to warp to another player with directional scannergive frigs and cruisers/battlecruisers op. mmo is nothing about farming to create/have something, is about shooting everything on your screen and destruction - this one is donneimprove scamming options - give bonuses when scam is succeded (+ss +standing)new spy skils -ability to hack ships in fly or spining in stations-ability to hack corps offices and assets/wallet-ability to hack docked players assets/walletburn eve servers - this one is done toomake it fps - already isimprove corp options:- criminal past or deviance mandatory to get in- cv in perfect english mandatory-interdiction to non english natives to join player corps- high school diplomas mandatory-ability to buy your own bots mandatory--------------------------------------------------------------i'm out of ideas can someone help me?"
"all a gm would have to do to prove if reported person is a botter is look at the logs login time rat kills in the last time how many jumps have been made etcand if said account has been on for 20 hours killing 100k rats an never leaving the system and maybe doing that for days alreadythen we can be pretty sure that its a bot and if that is not enough have the gm go into the system and look at what hes doing bots tend to save up and log a split second after you enter the system faster than a normal person can do that etc etc"
"i think after enough \"report botter\" reports come in against an individual, the ship they're piloting should suffer a capacitor leak and effectively have zero capacitor with zero capacitor regeneration.they can fly around but cannot warp nor activate modules as they have no capacitor to do so. effectively dead in the water so to speak. thus shutting down all botting activity that individual may be conducting until a gm can do a proper investigation.sure, they could cloak and slowboat to a safe area, but their activities are halted anyways so they can sit there cloaked and botting it up all they want."
"try not to think of the button as a form of petition, but as one of multiple data inputs into a detection system which would filter down the list of most likely bot candidates for the gms to check out. bot banning will never happen because of a single red flag raised, nor will it happen without human approval."
"i think this would be good idea, although it should be a bit more complex solution than just reporting an isk seller. perhaps also a small text box (sort of mini petition) where you can add with few sentences why do you think the player you reported is a bot. what this button should do is to make eve preserve a bit more detailed logs for the suspected 'bot' for the next 2 weeks for example. so when the few guys whose main job is to hunt and ban bots get around to taking a look at the suspected bots they would have a bit more data to look at than just the default logs, as for performance reasons i doubt that it's feasible to log detailed logs for every single player in eve. it would especially preserve logs about items / contracts / isk transfers between characters and detailed logs about in game actions so it's easier to find unnatural regularities there. in addition this would create sort of 'ranking' system between suspected bots and it would make sense to take a look at highest ranking bots first as for some reason most people suspect of them being a bot. another positive thing possible would be a 'ranking' system for those that report - i.e., how high is probability that if this particular player thinks that the person is bot it can be found out that it actually is a bot. so those who just run around and 'report' every single ice miner they can find would be dropped into 'just a noise' category fast enough."
"why is everyone worried about the stations and sov, because as far as i checked stations werent tied directly to sov, and you could destroy the tcu after the ihub and take the system even if you didnt take the station, or you could take the station even if the ihub was saved.i may be wrong but isnt that why its soo terrible to have a corp owning a station and a different corp owning the tcu and ihub? because essentially the station can be shot at any time and flipped due to different corp?i think i am confused tho, i know that applys to different alliances such as all the init stations down south that have init sov and are owned by init associates these can be shot without sbus and flipped. with that aside. i truly support this idea i think tho that the top limit should be three per system this would allow for all but one of the stations to be dropped into a system. still creating more statons but at the same time creating the option for strategic deployments of stations"
"sounds good to me. and to further the idea, limit the total number of systems an alliance can have, it would encourage more concentrated development, perhaps create more room for all the \"emergent\" alliances that dominion was supposed to enable."
"i have argued for this in the past. there should be reasonable length thread with cons and pros about this in the features and ideas buried somewhere. i do support lifting this artificial barrier from my sandbox. if i so desire i should be able to build as many outposts in my system as i desire.in that discussion main arguments were about sov warfare, but they are relatively easily sorted. for example by dividing the hp one has to dig through between all the outposts in the system or making the first outpost in the system built a 'system capital' outpost and only one counting in the sov warfare - so if that falls so would them all. to name 2 most obvious solutions. supported!"
"this is a holdover from the days when you could get concord agent missions, if i am not mistaken. and why remove it? it's like your appendix - as long as it's not swollen and painful, leave it alone."
"come to think of it, aren't we slated to get concord loyalty points for fighting the sansha incursions? maybe the ded connections skill can tie in that way."
"you did at least mention the part about the catalyst model still being broken...right? just kidding, it sounds like stuff actually got done. and it sounds like they'll finally be revisiting the wonderful sov system they gave us in dominion."
"csm nov. 2010 crowdsourcing update for this topic:item #114, modular starbase,"
"absolutely not.also:hope you meant that in general. i was twelve not long ago and i definitely not crap at eve. in fact i am pretty successful in eve. i am different from other \"younglings\". just to let you know."
"ok i am not a super capital pilot, but i am going to weigh in as i am a capital pilot.it of course is always hard to determine how to nerf something to bring it in line with other ships, especially since the new fighter bombers pretty much replaced dreads for capital pvp. instead of large amounts of dreads fighting we now just have super capital blobs going at it with massive amounts of ehp and nothing really dying except for those not in a super cap. so what are my thoughtswyvern and nyx -1 mid slothel and aeon -1 low slot ok yeah this is like a kick in the balls hit to the tank, but they can still survive several dd at them plus the aeon and the wyvern both have natural tank bonuses.i would go for reduced capacitor recharge rate and, maybe increase the amount of base cap needed to jump?fighter bay - this could be an interesting concept, i dont know about implementation.neut / nos - ok this is a good imo, but 3000% is extreme, maybe 300%30% reduced dps - yeah, this would be useful to give regular a fighting chance to either escape or take a few of them with them.other thoughts - maybe have some sort of draw back to having full flight of bombers out? still supported though"
"the 3000% is meant to be extreme. its complete discouragement from using neuts much like using points is discouraged by a massive bonus to activation cost during triage. reduction in tank wont reduce its effectiveness vs subcaps and will only hurt its given role. this is akin to an ehp bonus and does literally nothing but hurt the ship needlessly. a supercap at 10% hp is just as dead as a supercap at 1% hp. not giving it that extra 9% is pointless. a reduction in the slots typically used to give cap recharge wont hurt its given role but will hurt its ability to be a highly mobile anti subcap fleet tool."
"nerf to bots> no thanks"
"agreed."
"i think you wandered into the wrong thread bro."
"so they buffed motherships... just months ago. now you want to nerf them. where were you during testing? your changes make moms useless as hell. you're absurd."
"why does taking away their ability to counter sub capitals make them useless? they would are anti capital and supercapital platforms and would still curbstomp capfleets with ease. also i was *all over* that thread during testing and fb were my ****ing idea so troll disregarded."
"sorry, but the idea of fighters shooting goto/bombs has been around well before your proposal. anyhow, proceed with your super capital ultra nerf.by the way, will fighters bombers be allowed to be assigned while these super carriers hug pos shields?"
"sure there was, but during the prospective changes thread my thread as linked, not previous ones. and nope sorry, i will still be happily taking my supercarrier away from pos shields for combat little ncdot person. i realize you guys would stand to lose a lot from this nerf, any alliance that's been heavily reliant on their sc performance and nothing else for the past year does. but that doesn't change the fact it's needed.we know a supercarrier nerf is incoming. that's been confirmed beyond a shadow of a doubt. we just don't know what it contains yet.the question is do you want it to be something like this or ham fisted like a 50% ehp reduction?"
"so that is what this is about ehh? an alliance that has been using their supercarriers taking giant dukies all over your sandbox and you think its time for a nerf.i just was simply correcting you and you burst into tears of rage over an alliance i was in before i quit the game. anyways, i am all for cutting back on capital ship projection. especially super capitals. more sub caps, less super caps. just so you know i do like some aspects of your idea. the problem is there is so many nerf in it that super caps will be back to pos hugging and the only time they will see combat is when they are dropped on an opposing force when it is going to a slaughter.remove the ability to field any non-fighter/bomber drones from super caps. if they want to leroy around without a proper support fleet to keep the superstitious from being tacked then that is their problem. can we at least agree on that?"
"we can definitely agree on that but i don't think ccp will simply remove all other drones from supercarriers. simply giving them a small drone only bay forces them to pick and choose what they want to be able to counter and even then they cant simply spit drones endlessly.as for your tears comment, this isnt about us fighting them. ncdot has clearly relied on its supercaps and still is. that's their primary worth right now. it makes sense that someone who is in the alliance would dislike a nerf to their bread winner. these nerfs listed wouldnt ruin supercaps. they would remove a supercaps ability to be a highly mobile **** mobile that can counter anything in the game with only 30-40 ships. the only thing that counters 40 supecarriers is more supercaps. that's broken. the amount of hictors required to tackle that many even if you bring more supercarriers than them is astronomical because of how quickly 40 supercarriers can melt/nuet down anything able to tackle them. that's broken. i dont think even 50 of them would be enough. you may get 3-6 supercarriers before they had time to react and get out but the simple mathematics of it are incredibly in the sc's favor of surviving. that's assuming they have zero support. which seems to be happening more and more. if 40 supercarriers have 200 support, then yes, they should be able to curbstomp damn near anything except more support and supercaps."
"i realise that you're just trolling (and as usual you're not very good at it), but for the benefit of other readers, the problem with sisi testing is that the circumstances in which supercaps are typically used on tq aren't easily replicable. pre-dominion testing mostly involved people mashing t2 fit supercaps into each other at the capital ffa beacon in fd- and jerking off in local over their damage notifications. there were few if any organised attempts to determine how they performed in particular battlefield scenarios (for example, how a small gang of supercarriers held out against a large subcap fleet).what we're seeing on tranquility is the law of unintended consequences in action. everyone was excited at the prospect of seeing supercaps given a useful battlefield role, but what we've seen with supercarriers has been the introduction of zillion hitpoint gankmobiles with enough free utility slots and drones to counter anything that can be thrown at them - except another larger supercap fleet."
"how do you feel about a change where not all super caps are able to make it to a fight, even if they are online?also, i hate to break it to you, i'm not in ncdot."
"you means some arbitrary negative they would get for having a certain amount of supercaps in the system? i think it would only hurt the game and be abused even more than the current mechanics."
"no no. not that at all. what i mean, and i hope this analogy works, is say capital ship jumping is similar to a ships capacitor. let's say players have a capacitor the size of a battlecruiser. now let's say an armor rep is a capital ship. the bigger the rep the faster the capacitor drains and you can't activate it anymore. it would take some time recharge a bit before you could use the rep again but if you cap wad full you could use it a lot in a sprint before you capped out.so if super caps are large reps and normal caps are medium to small, even if your online with a capital, how active you have been over the last few days jumping will dictate if you can do a jump and make it to a fight. you may he on but you might have to take a non-cap to the fight instead because of your jump capacitor. super capital and your jump capacitor is too low from you hot dropping stuff left and right the last day or two? too bad, your going to have to sit this one out.i'm not saying other changes don't need to happen but instead of 100% of the available super caps showing up at every fight it might be only 50% or something. also will cut back on superstitious groping on a couple battleship for instant \"i win\" stuff because it is not with burning jump capacitor for a couple if typhoons or something.does any of that make sense?"
"so you want to give an advantage to people who play eve rarely and punish those who play frequently. that sounds like a terrible idea."
"/facepalm"
"i asked a few other people to translate that really really poorly written post and they all got the same thing out of it i did."
"hang out with different friends that are not narrow minded and not blinded by political agendas? v0vanyways, ill let you get back to nerfing super carriers back to pos ornaments."
"actually i meant they couldnt gather any message out of that but \"lets punish people for playing frequently\".maybe your poorly worded block of words can be re worded to be more legible?"
"the way i read your horrible, horrible wall of text is that if i want to use my capital and drop it left and right (which i have done in the past) that i am inventually going to be unable to jump because eve wants to punish me for using my toy?ok how about your idea put into a sensible idea, since personaly, i think your a total idiot, not that i think much more of the idea im out to put out.capital jump drives become a mod similiar to the subsystems on a t3 cruiser.in which they can be only jumped a certian ammount of lightyears before they have to be repaired in with a station, some super epic huge nanite paste, or mabey some kind of rr mod from a logi or something, who knows.actaully for the new rr mod you could use the rorqual hull and repurpose it from its carebear lolness to something even more awesome by giving it the ability to repair other capital ships jump drives while in deployed mode. you could call it a fleet tender or something like that, and change its ore bay to a fuel bay.please refrain from personal attacks. spitfire"
"the tears in this thread are epic. it sounds like everyone wants them nerfed, but not nerfed in how they are using titans and super carriers. anyways, thumbs up from me to put them back to pos control tower modules.p.s. - mrs. sky needs to pass me some of that stuff. your imagination hurts peoples feelings too much. time to back off hun."
"supercarriers are only killable by more supercarriers. they don't need support fleets, even.in fact, while we're nerfing supercarriers, let's nerf dominion's epic failwhale of a sovereignty system."
"i like this idea and agree it could go well in with a larger graphical update (one that correctly shows missing shots missing, for instance, and the correcting the offputting way projectile tracers follow the target)but i do feel that doing this for missiles would really screw with the mechanics of the game, as missiles are actual objects spawned on the server that can be shot down or otherwise adjusted. your proposal would involve removing all of that and replacing it with a similar system that's used to calculate turret hit chance, maybe with a couple of extra variables for things like flight time and 'interception' chance. launching defender missiles would then act like an armor hardener, randomly cutting down the chance for missiles to hit.also i think ccp should bite the bullet and put proper hardpoints on missile ships. just sayin' ."
"you are very right that this would require some heavy work on the behavior of defender missiles. as my op says, this could potentially be used to reduce lag if the fb fix is employed in a similar fashion. however, over all, this topic is primarily calling for a graphic update to the missile launch.in all reality the flight, impact, and various effects of different missiles are fine in my opinion. what is lacking is the actual launch of the missiles. the most dangerous part of making actual hard-point graphics (turret-like-launchers) is that ships would now have multiple missile trajectories to be calculated: this would not look half bad but i can't possibly seeing it positively affecting the gameplay (i.e. lag). that and, as the op says, many ship skins currently lack the actual hard-point mounts for this idea: the most obvious ship being the drake which has no hard-points in its skin. however other ships have this problem too: after mounting turrets, many ships that utilize missiles as a supplementary weapon don't have additional hard-points in their skins. surprisingly, the only two ships i can think of that the 'turret-launcher' could work are the raven and scorpion skins, which have hard-points on their skins that aren't used typically since the ships favor missiles (though both can equip turrets on their t1 versions).all in all, i really want this graphic change to be supported but it should be clear that i (and i'm sure everyone else here) don't want it to negatively impact gameplay, be that in mechanic changes that require balancing or the accidental summoning of the cpu-devouring lagzor from the planet of dos. (sorry if you like dos...)"
"as a trans character(and a gender-fluid individual) i fully support this."
"fully supported!"
"supported - girls with d**ks beats guys that are d**ks any day of the week :d"
"i vote yes. i still do not understand why violence can be so acceptable, but nudity can't."
"not supported. there are too many people underage who play eve (myself included). if you want an m rated game, go for bible black (yeah they have a game)."
"has anyone asked for full nudity? i dont think so, although i wouldnt mind some 18+ areas in the stations.if underaged cant stomach some extra sex (which is integrated in the storyline after all) too bad for them.europe (in general) is much less prude about these things, cant beat the japanese though, so calm down and stop staring at other peoples crotch."
"supported."
"the belts to scan sites idea is nice, but it would penalize the new player unless changes were made. i had the same idea when i was in the csm, but it never got to ccp.if we gave all barges and exhumers a special onboard scanner to find grav sites with the onboard scanner, it might work. the other ships have to either use two ships to find the site (a scanner and a miner) or use one of the high slots (like the mining cruisers), we might have something.to go with this, all belts in .8 and below would have to go to grav sites, including ice belts. the ice belts idea is described in my pos redesign, but it would work for normal mining sites too (just without the damaging effects).in exchange, we would have to prohibit the specialized mining vessels from entering 0.9 and 1.0 space so the belts would still be there when new players got there. this would breathe new life and new value into mining in general, as well as low-sec mining.this would only be the first required change for mining to become exciting again. others i've read which i agree with include heatmaps for asteroids similar to how pi does it, and requiring a player to drill through the rock before he got to the ore.in either case, mining is in dire need of a revamp, and this seems to be a good way of doing it. supported."
"make it a bannable offense to have code that affects the client running(most of these bots run python injection scripts). essentially, it would be an anticheat(they could still use bots that \"read\" pixels and respond but that is far less effective than the current level of evebot."
"agree"
"1.0"
"supporting the idea."
"i have read the blog and am very disheartened. the original blog post gave me hope that project unholy rage might bear fruit. it's good that ccp is blocking rmt, but it's time to take the next step.ccp, give us tools to help you get rid of this threat that is destroying the market. even constant macroers and rmters have given ways to make this not be possible. however, there is none so blind as he who will not see.i'm not talking about minigames or captchas, but just a real dedication to the players. your own software is being reverse engineered, and you don't seem to care about your ip. wake up and smell the corruption."
"clear out the market bots while you are at it please."
"perhaps a new approach is warranted.after all, if you can't beat em... join em."
"the whole current fof is just dumb.. current modern day irl inteligent missiles are always updated with the latest target info before they are released. fof should only target agressing hostiles ... the lauching platform's targeting computer knows they're there so would simply upload the hostile data to the missile .. it would then pick the closest (with some random element) and target that."
"well many things in eve are rather dumb, including the pirate npc's. it would be ofc awesome if the fof would work as targeted missile if you have target locked. for a start however quick fix would be that they ignore large collidable structures altogehter and if you want to kill some of those you would need to bring targeted missiles for that. and perhaps exclude at least logistic drones from the viable targets list as well. making them not to shoot logistic ships in a way that is not exploitable would be a bit bigger overhaul probably. if you must further 10 - 15% cut in damage to make em less attractive for mission farming. or just make them ignore npc's altogehter (other than hostile drones ofc)."
"totally agree.i cant stand using them - and watch them fly off somewhere to hit some bunker or some building off in the distance.my solution to fof missiles as far is: select all - refine"
"i would like to see fof changed to auto-guide instead:the missiles maintain their current less-than-great attributes being 'easy-mode' missiles. launch of the missile causes it to home in on hostile targets on grid, regardless of distance. if the target is within range, great, if not, missile won't make it like any 'normal' targeted missile. this maintains their usage as a 'counter' to ewar for missile boats but removes their current stupidity that makes them utterly worthless.'homing' missiles must have a reduced payload, for obvious balancing reasons. i also think they should target the nearest enemy at launch, not randomly. this means that, if swarmed, your missiles could potentially not focus-fire on targets. this is both a drawback and a bonus - you can control the target of the missiles by maintaining ship position such that it stays the closest to you.as for drones and other entities - the missiles will target hostile drones and structures if they are the closest hostile at launch.the most severe drawback should continue to be that these new missiles still can't be used against a set target. for rp: as homing missiles their onboard tracking does not interface with the pilot's tracking in his ship. thus, the missiles cannot be controlled like 'standard' missiles.tl;dr fof missiles -> homing missiles-do not require target lock like the original fof design-keep reduced damage because they are 'easy-mode'-targets hostiles only to make them more viable to use in gangs-target nearest at launch, giving 'swarm tactics' an upper-hand against them, but enabling the player to semi-control the target of the missiles by keeping the desired target closest to them-cannot be forced to hit a targeted enemy much like the original fof and to prevent interference with other modules that are target specific."
"never used them, (more of a turret guy) but it sounds like there's no reason to with their current implementation. it would be nice if there was a script for tracking computers that allowed fof tracking..."
"bump me harder"
"exactly the same whine and yes i see quite some proteus or arazus used with faction scrams in use(we even have 18km web legions), that are actually in the same isk class, because they do offer something more beside \"got web\"... also you are limited to 2 webs in the rax, because you still need a mwd if you don't magically spawn in range. i wouldn't even have any issues if ccp introduce a 90% web that is only fit able with a role bonus on blaster ships and not affected by warfare mods(without adding a web bonus).yes any pvp is done in rr gangs, where anything is a static brick, can't take any advantage of speed, something is tackeled to death or don't tackeled at all and pests are limited to 1-0 damage mods. thanks for sharing your point."
"ok, what are you guys arguing about? thanks to scorch ammar ships have much better damage projection. thanks to barrage, minmatar can scratch paint off distant opponents if they are not in range. thanks to null being inferior, we have to deal with already inferior guns being loaded with inferior ammunition. that's not balanced. i can get behind the idea of reducing pg requirements, or you could increase powegrid of the relevant ships, either one works."
"/signed.over the past three years, ccp has nerfed the gallente race's strengths (drone bays / bandwidth + damps) with no thought to re-balancing its gimped weapons systems.now, we have lol-fitted gallente bcs with acs. isn't it saying something when a pvp pilot [successfully]uses another race's un-bonused weapon system in place of the natively bonused guns?"
"you are still missing the point. a 500mill t3 isnt in the same range as a 8mill (after fittings) t1 cruiser.and yes, i am fully aware lachesis and proteus (though the proteus is certainly very uncommon here) use their racial bonuses ewar. a bonused ewar that is completely invalidated by afterburners btw.now i might have missed the stealth introduction of a 5th subsystem, but i dont know about any web bonused subsystem for the legion. nothing another ship cant do (and do better), its a moot point.not every gate is a regional gate, and even for some regionals 18km works in a many cases as long as you got a good spot to sit at.but sure, fit a mwd as well and go with two webs. its not like 7m/s or 3m/s makes a huge difference after all.i'm sure ccp would have a problem with implementing a special case just to give out bonuses to 5 hulls, especially giving a minmatar flavor racial bonus to gallente.if anything the minmatar recons should receive such a role bonus, and i'm strongly against that as well. 90% webs were nerfed for numerous good reasons after all, there is no need whatsoever to bring that broken mechanic back.even having it on some hulls is questionable imo, but then again they are all kinda expensive and limited in usage so that can get overlooked.i have honestly no idea what kind of edge case you are trying to paint as the norm here. using accepted standard fittings and two damage mods on both ships, the mega has the damage projection advantage up to 25km, which is kinda reasonable imo. heck even if you did select your long-range ammo and all targets are within perfect faction ammo ranges for some unknown reason, your guns still apply their damage better than the autos do with shortrange ammo.now once we cross those 25km, you should be sitting in an amarr bs anyways, in fact you should be sitting in one from about 20km.now the pest has its strong points over a mega i'll not argue that, but these are the utility hislots and the extra mid, definitely not its super awesome damage projection.but feel free to bring up some absolutely standard scenario where the tempest uses its superior speed to make full use of its devastating long range autocannon damage. i'm really interested to know."
"i really like the reduction in reloading time. lasers can shift ammo in 1 second, which goes hand in hand with the crystals being range-based (they almost all deal a combination of thermal and em). hybrids shouldn't shift nearly this quickly, but they should load a bit quicker (i liked 7 seconds).projectile ammo is more 'damage type' based, much like the purely type based missiles. a simple presentation based on how the ammo varies, not the actual weapons:range typelasers --- hybrids --- projectiles --- missileshybrids vary more in damage type than lasers, but less than projectiles. based on this simple chart, we can see that hybrids should probably have a slightly reduced reload time to handle the need to shift ammo based on range, not type. this is why lasers change so quickly (although it also gives them a bonus to balance their cap usage). hybrid cap usage is next in line of course as well.i can't comment on the other points except ammo size: if you change the reloading speed, i'd change the ammo size too. laser boats often equip multiple ammo types because they 'break' instead of expend like normal ammo (but are also much larger iirc). for hybrids, do reduce ammo size to accommodate the similar need to switch ammo as the battle evolves.+1 to reload speed+1 to ammo size reduced"
"as previously discussed here, these should be fixed again:"
"two thumbs upedit: don't forget to support"
"supported."
"yep."
"/me signed"
"yes please"
"three words:best. idea. evah!!!!!!no, seriously. this should've been implemented years ago. the endless info button clicking is too much of a hassle.definitely supported."
"so based on the responce i have gotten on this topic i edited the original post. here is the revised request for destroyer adjustments.1)sitting duck problem: destroyers are too big of a target without the ability to either mount a good tank or enough speed to evade fire from cruisers and other larger ships. a)so we would like to see slightly smaller ship size/signature (30-45% smaller and signature radius closer to 50-65 m range)2)weak fittings problem: destroyers are supposed to be anti frigate ships but have such poorly configured mid and low slot arrangements that they are unable to mount both an effective tanks and tackle. so lets have an increase of the mid and low slots by two each for each ship respectively(minimum of 3 max of 6)3) role bonuses: as anti frigate ships the destroyer is lacking one critically neccessary bonus. \"tracking\" so lets see a 5-10% bonus in weapon tracking per level of destroyer skill.optional stuff that would be nice but not neccessary since opinions on these differ quite a bit.a) drone bays: it would be nice to see destroyers have more in the way of drone bays we can live without it if we must.b) 1 or two more missle slots for caldari destroyer but like the drones issue we can also live without it.c)it may be neccessary to tweek the powergrid and cpu for the destroyers due to the increased mid and low slots.i removed the part about increasing the structure, armor, and shielding of the destroyers. while i would still like to see some improvement in this area but the additional mid and low slots would be enought to allow better tanking on destroyers.i will sit down later and write up an example of the adjusted states so everyone can see the effect it would have.is this something we can all get behind?"
"make them frig : dessy :: cruiser : bcnot bad what you got therei shouldn't say make them smaller physically but small sig radius or something"
"destroyers are actually a very good choice for combat as long as you are not up against cruisers or larger. they are so good in fact that a couple of them can take cruisers consistently and without issues.- signature reduction i can get behind, should be slightly larger (45-50m) than the largest frigates and not 2-3x the size as they are (75-90m).- increasing base ehp is not really needed, especially not by a massive 50%. they already get as much as a buffered frigate by using only a damage control (they should not be balanced against t2 frigates when it comes to ehp).- boost to speed comes from the mass reduction so no need. they should not actually be able to keep up with frigate as they have a huge range advantage, mwd speed should be roughly 25-30% lower than that of frigates (without speed mods).- they really do not need any more slots, giving them more obsoletes frigates entirely as you have tackle/ewar on all of them plus damage+tank+speed.- highs should adopt the marauder/faction scheme of \"half mounts, 2x damage\" .. will cut cost immensely.seven gun hulls get a slight damage increase and catalyst+coercer can then get a mid each.all should have two utility slots for neuts/nos .. twin staggered neuts are the bane of all frigates, once on top of one it should be gameover.that is my take on the destroyers having killed and died in them for years in fw."
"really, my only complaint in the coercer (pve mind you) is the single mid and its pathetic sig/size. really, why is a dessie as big as a bc? that makes no sense."
"imo the gallente destroyer should have more than a 5m drone bay. it should be 10m at least... maybe 15m. 1. that's a little too much. particularly for a first time change. do it in smaller incriments.2. too much reinforcement and they'll be cruisers. imo they should be able to handle maybe two player frigates (three if poor fitting/skill). if they can't 1v1 a frigate, then they would need a buff. i also think that they are meant to be support ships and not solo vs a gang of frigates.3. put them at about 300 m/s base speed and they'll be good.4. no, the high slots makes them fun and good for salvaging. imo they are supposed to be frigates with more high slots, nothing more. that's how they should be so adding more mid/low slots and you're moving them too far away from what they're meant to be.5. new ship models are always nice."
"destroyers are fine against t1 frigs and therefore doing that they are designed to do.i would just like them to have much better tracking (enough to hit frigs orbiting with 4km/s+) to make them viable against high-speed t2/faction frigs.its a bit sad that some dramiel or daredevil can kite those dessys without fear of getting hit."
"why is this on page seven?"
"the core of the problem lies in the tier system. ccp, for whatever reason, decided to make the highest tier hull of the gun race a tanking boat.problem disappears if omen was to switch places with the maller, inheriting its higher base numbers and slots.no support for a fix to individual hulls like this, but will support a streamlining of the tier system."
"supported."
"my problem with the omen is that is has that giant tumor on the side of it... need a matching tumor on the left side."
"i've noticed people complaining about not being able to fit the highest powered weapons on their cruisers. quick recap on weapon sizes and hull classes:small modules - frigates and destroyersmedium - cruisers and battlecruiserslarge - battleshipsxl - t2 battleships (rarely) and capitalsthe point being an omen doesn't fit heavy lasers...a prophecy or harbinger do. same reason why a moa doesn't fit 250mm guns...and a ferox does. even then, the 'biggest' weapon for a size-class often barely fits on tech i ships. anyone who has fitted a harby will know that the largest possible medium guns will not fit unless you go out of your way to get the pg in modules, not just skills. have we forgotten about tech ii ships? they use these weapons too you know. it's not just about bonuses - tech ii ships have the ability to fit these larger weapons for a reason, or vice versa, tech i ships lack the ability to fit these larger weapons for a reason.i see no problem with my omen and enjoy it very much. it's a cruiser, a tech i at that, and it does quite well with its drones and pulse lasers. if you want to tackle the 'beam' problem take into consideration that for lvl 2 missions, the long-range weapons rarely do well because lvl 2's are dominated by frigate not cruiser npc's. this doesn't mean cram small lasers on your omen, it means you should use that noggin and buy medium pulses, not beams.as noted earlier, eve is about learning. the omen, as with pretty much all tech i ships, is just fine. new players have to determine what works and doesn't work. in the event the omen doesn't match them too well (or they can't match it) they can always use the maller or the arbitrator, which also do just fine in missions or pvp, provided you can figure out how to fit them. eve ships aren't designed to have a 'perfect' fitting. like the game, unto themselves they are sandboxes for players to build their fit and make it work. (i shield tank a cane as opposed to the popular armor tank for example so my alt doesn't have to train armor skills. did the same for rifter, thrasher, and stabber)as for fitting tech ii equipment on a tech i ship - eve is a game of balancing. it's a tech i ship, as part of its 'simplicity' is the fact that maxing out its potential is difficult. as a cruiser (and thus the lower half of the hull class) it will always favor the smaller medium turrets."
"i do not like the dynamics of people owning t2 bpo's out there.its free money for life.however they did get them 'fairly' during gameplay when they were out.i suspect if ccp really wants to handle this problem, they will have to just make a decision - and go with it. ( just like the latest learning fix ).perhaps give isk and skill points to owners of t2 bpos' to compensate.i am on 'side' that no bpo of a t2 should exist. i do not own them, but i beleive gameplay is unfair because they are not available to any new players."
"this will never happen. however lets discuss the reality.highsec capships vs t2 bpos.neither are possible to create anymore. the usage of both are an unfair advantage over anyone who doesnt have one. invention doesnt compete with t2 bpos... only volume can beat t2 bpos. highsec dreads cant die... only volume can beat them. yet for some reason 1 of these is banned from being used. while the other is encouraged to be used. absolutely absurd different standards.i say we create mechanics to allow capships to move back into highsec. used via a pos cyno gen module at highsec poses. in addition we create a way to invent t2 bpos. the chance can be low and the cost per attempt can be very high and the thing is spawned with very bad research levels.absolutely fixes the whole problem."
"my goodness, the peasants are revolting! back to the slums with you!"
"i used to be for the removal of t2 bpos, but as of this coming friday a friend of mine is giving me his t2 bpo cap recharge. so i will not be supporting anything that nerf t2 bpos. just got mine and i'll be darned if i'm going to let some snot nosed 'have not' cry baby mess with it!"
"yes, the skills required for a command ship are staggering, considering what it eventually delivers. command ships deserve a boost."
"definitely need a revision, poor things have been stuck in mediocrity for years. same for fleet commands really, the primary function of links is done much better by the t3s .. but first things first.not quite as simple as that they can also provide something unavailable elsewhere (ex. black ops). otherwise yeah, pretty much"
"i'd say the biggest boost you could give to field commands without changing anything else is to give them 600 calibration.and what is this about the harbinger outdpsing the absolution? out alpha definately, but not out dps."
"hear that noise?that's my astarte in the hangar, crying. ;_;"
"i support this proposal.but i think that it is also important to consider what ccp has done with the addition of the tech 3 strategic cruisers as some of the improvements requested in this thread are easily covered by current t3 cruiser fits.while i am not saying that t3 cruisers should supersede field command ships, ccp made a choice to introduce a class of ships that is on-par and sometimes superior to the elder statesmen of t2 hulls.yes, i am aware of the financial and training expenses involved with fielding a t3 cruiser."
"supportedif you look at the prereq's for a field ship, you'll notice the assault ship skills are needed. i always assumed that these ships were meant to be the third ship in the \"assault\" versions.harpy/hawk >>> cerberus/eagle >>> nighthawksame idea for the other races. these ships are meant to be heavy hitters but not much else. like all tech ii ships, they have a 'role' that makes them more specific to a task compared to t1 ships, but more powerful in that role. 'tis how eve works.as a side note...if you look at all the other types of tech ii ships, you'll notice that within a hull-class every ship has a tech ii version. why is it that the myrmidon, drake, hurricane, and harbinger don't have tech ii counterparts...it's interesting that as the ships that 'favor damage' compared to their brothers, which usually have some sort of tank bonus, they didn't become the field command ships. instead we have two kinds of ferox, brutix, cyclone, and prophecy. just food for thought for a potentially new skin (but not new ship)."
"supported."
"something needs to be done so that you can see your scan probes on the screen all the time when you are scanning. the way it is at present time i cant see my probes half the time because they blend in to the color of the system map. this is a simple fix and could be easily done!!!!"
"*bump*"
"a carrier has a sma capacity of 1000000m3. why would a sub-capital have more room? sure, remove the jump drive and the combat systems and the module fitting slots, make this ship carrier with 2m m3. that will carry four tier 3 battleships.no cargo bay, no corporate hangar, no fitting service - we already have that functionality in the orca.your family/corp/alter egos can shove their mission running ships in the ship hauler, jump in their industrials (noctis, orca, ship transport) and move to a new mission hub"
"eve online: equilibriumthe jovian fourth empire is, as they always have been, suffering from depression and genetic degradation. this ever exponentially increasing problem is being met with constant experimentation to find a solution. most jovians are convinced the only possible correction is to return to the birthplace of the human race through the eve gate. the dissonance stability array aims to stabilize the eve gate's chaotic nature and allow for the reopening of the wormhole.note: eve gate is blockaded by the jovians.the only major test of the dsa failed completely and infected the entire stargate network in a chain reaction, shutting it down entirely. all stargate function ceased for a period of three hours, throwing the rest of the galaxy into turmoil which did not end when stargate function resumed. the amarr empire declared martial law and directed the imperial navy to blockade all empire space. the caldari state assumed the gallente federation had orchestrated this and declared open war. the gallente federation was caught with its pants down in a pleasure hub and lost several systems to the state before the federation navy was able to muster a comprehensive defense. the minmatar republic did not even realize anything had happened (something about tribal council and needing to vote someone off a planet?) until the imperial navy blockade came pouring into the border systems.concord moved to secure genesis and consolidated forces, pulling out of the bulk of the four empires' space leaving local law enforcement to the locals. ded's capital fleet now patrols genesis directly.the list of changes this proposed expansion would bring:* stargates now have a 20% chance to be offline entirely and 30% chance to send you to the wrong destination during any given hour. there is no way to tell without activating the gate and jumping through.* all ships gain a fuel bay standardized for all ships of that hull class.* all ships gain transwarp drives (require fuel).* transwarp speed is based on a given ship's warp speed (yes, warp speed rigs affect transwarp): 3.0 au/s warp speed becomes 3000 au/s transwarp speed. that is about 21 seconds to go 1 ly.* transwarp can only be navigated from one star to another star. you can't engage transwarp from a station for example.* transwarp can not skip a system. if your course from a to b takes you within 0.5 ly of c, you have to transwarp to c before continuing on to b. this will happen automatically and there will be ample notification of the course routing. that means you will drop out of transwarp at the star in c.* larger ships should have more effective range, but smaller ships should be faster overall. titans can transwarp across the galaxy without refueling, but a malediction would have to stop for fuel several times. but the malediction will probably still arrive first.* transwarp 'tackling' follows the same rules as jump drives.* jump drive skills will be rebadged interstellar and will apply to jump drives and transwarp drives.* transwarp has no minimum skill requirement.* capitals traversing hi sec space in transwarp will be permitted through if all of their weapon modules are offline and drone bays are empty and they do not try to warp away from the star. capital pilots failing to heed this will be destroyed by the faction dreadnought and carrier security forces. the veldnought will be fine chribba, just don't warp it to the star and try to warp away again.* fleets transwarping together will do so manually.* as a result of the stargate network problems, the jovians are offering low end jovian exploration ships through outer ring excavation. the intrepid is a bc class hull with cruiser combat rating, but warps at 15 au/s and transwarps at 15000 au/s with a double size fuel bay and 300 m/s base speed with 75% mass of a normal bc. the ship bonuses should reflect more efficient use of engines across the board as well as planetary interaction enhancements.continued"
"* covert ops ships cannot transwarp cloaked. recloaking delay after exiting transwarp is 60 seconds.* black ops bs should have transwarp enhanced stats such as more speed and range. possibly even allow for transwarping from anywhere and not having to stop en route like normal ships.* interceptors can follow a ship into transwarp if they are within 10 km of it and have a target lock.* transwarp drives use a secondary capacitor, which is only filled by draining the ships primary capacitor. the secondary capacitor cannot drain the primary capacitor if the primary is below 20%. the energy stored in the secondary capacitor is refunded if the transwarp is canceled.* transwarp transition is punch in and punch out. not the way warp gradually accelerates now.* transwarp drops you at the destination star in a random bubble with a 100 km radius from the star's 'bm'.* transwarp uses the same fuels as jump drives.other necessary changes to the game to make this work are welcome to be suggested here. i for one like the idea of unreliable gate functionality, it takes carebear pvpers and shoves them into the mincer."
"if you really hate the game that much... so much that you wish to break it... then please... quit the game already.i couldn't even begin to pick apart your foolish proposal[s]... as it is."
"so basically you support it due to not having a reason not to.as for killing eve, i salivate at the day eve actually solves the most fundamental of its problems... but i suppose that could be killing it....maybe this expansion should be called phoenix."
"if i support a thread....i would click the support flag.but since your trolling so badly your coming across as a total fool... i suspect your unable to grasp such a concept."
"as far as i'm concerned, you either debate the topic or you have no reason to post in it.eve today is hardly what eve was when i started playing, so there already exists a precedent that precludes argument against this sort of change happening.so essentially you are trolling and have yet to address the topic."
"anubis xian finally went off the deep end.i think it's time you took a break from eve"
"star trek online infecting eve online? no thanks."
"voyager is that you? go back to the delta quadrant!!"
"i couldn't find a more obvious and terrible troll in my entire history of eve... shame on you anubis, shame on you"
"star trek online is that way ->"
"hey look it's your bs change thread that was already shouted down with a few more, even worse changes."
"even with several trained pos gunners in a corp it can be hard to have all the guns on a tower controlled by live players. schedules conflict or sometimes everyone's offline when a tower comes under attack. unmanned pos guns vs a decent fleet aren't much more than an annoyance.it's silly to think that, with all the thousands of people living and working in a pos, that there wouldn't be a semi-competent defensive coordinator left in charge while capsuleers are out to play.so why not assign this fancy sansha ai to the guns? let it control the guns that the pos gunners aren't so they can have *some* cooperative attack mechanic."
"it's hard to get 4-5 people to defend a pos? really?"
"4-5 people available 23/7 with anchoring 5 + pos gunner skill; pos gunner roles in the corp(not going to shoot blues or pos itself); able to get in the pos(need passwords); able to get to the pos without defence fleet... afterall gunners are about defending pos while defence fleet is being rounded up. not to mention necessity of needing bookmarks.now tell me how many corps can fill even 1 pos gunner slot? given all that is against them?regardless. i still dont think pos should get sleeper ai. infact they seem to cycle ships badly on purpose. at best the pos should pick a random single target and put absolutely everything on that target. except for ecm and such; so random points and neuts and such."
"supported. make it more interesting for attackers and more viable for small corps to defend."
"considering your corp and alliance, you have no room to say a word about it. how many players do you guys have online at any given time that can drop everything and fill the gunner positions?"
"according to your ignorant assumptions? at least eight thousand."
"for small corporations, yes sometimes it can be. (speaking from experience here).i would love to have my pos choose targets more intelligently - like say, put a point on the target it's currently pummeling with the autocannon batteries so it doesn't warp off in mid pummel.alas, that never seems to happen."
"no, my ignorant assumptions were spot on. you have tons of people who can drop everything to gun a pos. which gives you no basis with what to criticize a smaller orgnanization who doesn't."
"yes, lets push sub-capital class ships further into uselessness."
"if the pos has no defense fleet, you don't need sub-capital ships. capital ships are meant to beat up other capitals/large targets. the attendant fleet is for dealing with (sub-capital) enemy fleet ships that can cripple your capital ships.+1 for smarter pos gunsnot sure for sleeper ai, might be overboard, needs research on the balancing."
"not supported (overall). the corp i'm in has only 17 members, most of which are non combat alts. and we do fine defending/repairing our pos.however, i would support a mild change in the ai, so that the guns will switch targets (ie, if they can't hit the little frig flying in circles, they switch to the big bs sitting there)."
"an ungunned pos is supposed to be much much less of a threat than a gunned one. it's what encourages a corp to be there to actually defend their own pos and gun it themselves and the attacking corp to hit it at a time when they think the defender can't be there or can't respond fast enough."
"supporting my own idea and free bump."
"no"
"this would make lag worse. if someone wanted to know the price in jita (which is usually what they do), then they would have to travel there to see it. that means you would have insane numbers of traders going to jita each day just to check prices.i'm probly simplifying it too much... hopefully you get what i mean."
"kick afk players that are in jita ( afk for more then an hour)older players need to call amarr the trade hub, or at least talk bad about it. like hulkageddon have a \"gank everyone to enter jitageddon\""
"my idea was that you would already see the prices in jita, dox and amarr from either place thus removing the need to travel to one from the other."
"it's a brave, bold future with cloning, cybernetics, and jovian gene splicing... certainly there's a little room for kemonomimi running around. cat girls and boys, bunny girls, fox girls, dog boys and the like. since nature doesn't do it, i'm sure the science of the time would allow for such cosmetic things.i mean it would kind of stink to be forced into a station full of borg-like cybenertic implants, people who can't even figure out which gender they are (see other proposal), but not have something as simple as a pair of cat ears... or bunny ears or dog ears or whatever floats your boat."
"if you want kitty ****o.... go to second life.this is eve online...: o p"
"ccp please scrap incarna immediately. if you need reasons please refer to this thread and the one about the all in one gender packaging.only bad things can come from this. you have a good thing going with this spaceships thing. don't **** it up now."
"neat idea, but why overhaul only one ship. i think many players would like to see all the ships updated...but many players don't want the ships to change at all.however...i would change your proposal to a vote on a ship hull to be developed each year. alongside the expansion(s) and such, the player base could have the month of december to vote on a hull to be built and introduced for each race (keeping in line with the current setup in the game). they could either be categorized by hull, or perhaps profession...needs more thought but i think you get the idea.it seems that 99% of the people who complain about collector ships are mad because they'd rather have a useful ship, even if it isn't one that they'd use, simply because it grows and diversifies the game more. i like collector ships personally (good sale for fixing up that t3) but i'd like to see ccp develop new ships more. on t3's, that was a fantastic idea so why not do some more of that?"
"i tried, seems noone really cares about improvements like these :("
"i am not going to quote your original points - just refer to them by number. however, you will get far more supports if you split these up into several proposals grouped by category.1. low priority, but i could see that saving people some time.2. no. eve feels too small as it is.3. due to database optimization and normalization issues, they can't currently do this. however, i saw a dev response to another thread that said they may be working on something to overcome this. so at present, no, but they may change their minds.4. i presume you're talking about running missions. if so, yes, they could use some love to make them more...involved or something.5. it is, indeed, odd.6. i don't do research so i will refrain from making a comment.7. might be nice, at least to list the meta. i could care less about sorting.8. why? it doesn't hurt anything to leave it on.9. sure. don't see anything wrong with this.10. as long as it applies. some things you can't sell via the market.11. it's an in game item being sold for in game isk. why shouldn't it follow the normal market mechanics?12. the market groups screen is cluttered enough. if you need more information, do a show info. specifically for missiles, you can tell the damage type by the color of the missile's tip (red is thermal, blue is em, green is kinetic, yellow is explosive).13. can't really disagree with this one.14. we have enough people botting courier missions as it is. we really don't need to offer them even more incentives to do so. fix the missions so they're harder to automate, and we can talk about upping the rewards.15. make it optional like the wallet (i think is where you can turn it off) - sure.16. repackaging is just a fancy word for converting an in game item to a unit in stack of in game item. so yes, it is necessary because of the way ccp treats items in the database.17. extraction is getting a serious overhaul in january with part 3 of incursion. this basically does what you're asking for, in a different way. making any other changes would be premature at this point.18. again, why?19. i've also found that amusing.overall, you're going to get a lot of half support because you have all of these jumbled up in the same proposal. i'd split them out in some fashion, personally."
"18. also coming with the final part of the incursion expansion. link to devblog."
"most of this is ok...but here are a few i take issue with:1. yes please. (sorry, only one i really like)11. all things are taxed, plex is a commodity if you make it one.14. courier missions do need a boost and, personally, i'd love to see them really boosted to increase indy traffic and maybe promote piracy in hisec (but that's a can of worms best not opened here).15. the decimal game is the heart of eve's market and scam industry. i can't see a 'hiding option' being useful as most hubs can have hundreds of entries that differ only in the tenths. can you imagine a market screen with the same order 50 times? this could result in new players not realizing each order is in fact different.16. repackaging is related directly to damaged modules and exists for that reason. overheating, or actual damage incurred prevents players from selling you a raven with 16 hull. (that's a long repair time or expensive repair bill for the impatient)17. this, i think, is likely already in the works. however, remember that like mining, pi requires little effort and is thus naturally time consuming. it isn't the greatest mouse-breaker hobby, but as with all things eve, it's never as easy as it could be.18. also in the works. iirc ccp is developing a new shortcuts ui so that many more features in the game can be mapped to many more parts of your keyboard and/or mouse.19. not sure why its important, i just double click and go."
"as per ccp adida's demands! who: poses who need security.what: i am requesting pos guns which fit like small pos guns maybe even smaller then small as small is cruiser sized. so x-small guns. their job is obliteration of drones. that's their only job. if no drones on the field... these sit there and do nothing.where: anywhere there are poswhy: in highsec you have dominix spiders who launch sentries and then afk towers. in lowsec and 0.0 you have motherships who fighter bomb modules. no risk at all. no cost even. why do gate guns shoot drones and pos guns dont? when: anywhere there are pos"
"pos guns do not attack drones on their own. it was removed bcos people used drones to 'tank' pos bcos of the ulra crap tracking of those.however for a start it would be great if i could configure individual guns to engage drones even without a pos gunner present. small ac's are pretty good at popping fighters i would say."
"^this. not op proposal."
"give them sentry gun style tracking with enough whooomp to 2-shot drones (3 for fighters, 5 for fb). they can also use the small ammo type since no pos guns use it anyways."
"approved.and the notion of programming your pos guns to perform certain tasks is nifty. some additional thoughts on this:1) provide the pos admin the ability to group a limited number of individual weapons and other offensive modules so that, say, four guns and a warp disruption battery nail a target at the same time. this is the equivelant of having a well-skilled pos gunner online and @ the tower controlling modules. i suggest that this feature is disabled the moment that a live pos gunner takes control of a single offensive module.2) enable the pos admin the ability to assign ship types / sizes as permissible targets on a per module basis. for example, all large weapons target bc or larger stuff and small guns only pursue smaller targets.the intent is not to make poses op. rather, poses are currently so underpowered and 'dumb' that it doesn't make any sense in the context of a sci-fi simulation."
"as it stands the time it take to train up to the racial mining ships (frigate and cruiser) is next to nothing. players who take the time to scan the ships will notice that, if they postpone training to a procurer (or further) by only a few days, they can hop into a mining cruiser and make decent isk to not only train for but afford their first barge.if you do the career agents, you get your racial mining frigate (which is actually not half bad, just small cargo). eve is about progress and obtaining your own set goals. the current progression for mining is just fine. is mining itself fine...ehh...that's for a different thread."
"client lag is normal in huge fleet fights and we all experience the cpu running at 100%, the pc freezing or the client hanging for seconds during the entire time of the fights. the normal step that everybody does to reduce the client lag to a minimum, is to reduce/remove all the graphical options and remove brackets. each time we go to a fleet fight, we have to press esc, go to the graphical options and remove, 1 by 1, all the options that cause client lag and eat our cpu. also we have to downsize other options to lower settings, like the textures. we also have to go and remove brackets in the overview window... then when the fight is over, we have to repeat all the previous steps and restore the previous settings so we can enjoy all the good stuff that eve has to offer (graphical stuff). this is time consuming and boring.i know ccp is working on the lag issue, but until that day arrives, i would like to ask ccp if is possible to implement a simple button and a respective shortcut key that does all these downsize graphical steps and the removal of brackets in one unique step, a button called, for example, \"fleet fights options\". press once and the client is ready for a 900 men fight, press again and i'm ready for normal game play.one day, when all the client lag problems are fixed, just remove the button, until then, please simplify and improve our game experience by giving us this simple option, thanks."
"nobody?"
"i agree better tools and more options for logs are required.the biggest bloat comes from game and local logs. options for filtering pve log entries so they don't even get to file would be interesting.pro tip: if you want to archive old logs, compress them as a solid rar file, gets the size down to 4% of the original. doing it now that my logs folder got to over 200mb again..."
"i think ccp definitely needs this too; all the gms ever say is \"the logs show nothing.\""
"do want."
"you know you're suffering from a serious case of \"old logs\" when it takes windows 3 minutes to load the contents of the damned folder.supported"
"you are confusing server side logs from client side. c:\users\admin\documents\eve\logsif you check the size of that folder. it's basically 99% wasted space because 99% of people dont even know it's there or use it. moreover, it not useful for petitions or anything like that. yet it can grow to ungodly sizes."
"so the rich guy up the hill a ways, with mansions all over the country, gets his vote/selection counted once per residence?at least with the insane login-mambo you get to have a feeling of actually doing something worthwhile. i mean you wouldn't be doing the mambo if it wasn't important to you, right?no support for institutionalised voter fraud."
"..we don't even have a useful tracking system for all those proposals, ideas, bugs and whatnot. wouldn't it be better to first build a good foundation and then play with the systems on top of it, than the other way round?do you really think it makes that much of a difference here in ah for the outcome of a proposal if you vote with just one acc or with all you pay for?< i got two accounts btw."
"ok, that is a serious argument... i will keep plex as an option b, in case i get a big loss..."
"stop grinding isk with you rooky account, buy a plex and start playing eve.be proud of what you are doing no matter what other people say.after some month you have enough isk to make a living and you probably are able to play for free, if you are really good in making isk. its possible, but its up to you if you want to spend your free time in grinding isk or if you want to spend your money in buying a plex. your decision."
"no.(dammit: edit for quote fail)"
"ya i think simply picking which overview filter u want from a drop down would make it pretty easy to implement. just copy the menu they have in the overview setting that you set up tabs from"
"maybe its just me - but it would be cool if whenever there is a shutdown or something if the main eve login screen would not only have the time when eve will come back on ( in utc time) but also the current time in (utc).i aways have to go google up what time it is in utc and then calculate on my own.would be cool if i can just know what time it is 'now' utc time.just a thought."
"i use a windows 7 gadget that has local time, utc time (labled eve), and east coast timetho im thinking of removing the east coast one cause the simple addition is pretty second nature now"
"everyone complains about blob tactics.there is no effective way to counter blob tactics. minus grid clear ddif ccp was to expand eve by 50-75% all 0.0 space, there would be soo much space that if people chose to gang up they could control an area like they do now. but if the 0.0 was twice as big there would be a much smaller concentration of force, more space = more entities to control space. since the number of players in eve is a growing but not at an alarming rate that would mean the number of pilots in 0.0 couldn't increase enough to cause the same concentration of power we see in eve today.if 50% of it was npc space aswell and was put as a buffer between regions of conquerable. we might even see more highsec and low sec entities moving out into 0.0 making room for newer younger entities to form in highsec.please dont bring up the drone regions as a largely unused conquerable area, because as much as it is drone life does not appeal to a large portion of newer players or people not into manufacturing.these regions could be added in three dimensional space above and below the current empire and 0.0, as it stands right now eve is relatively flat.prosincreased space0.0 more accessible even to younger entities and players.spreading out the blob further.reducing lag by spreading out the player base.consmore space to flypossibly more resources to fuel larger coalitions (tho sov bills are a rather nice deterant.)time to create (tho im sure that 0.0 regions can be randomly generated with names and assets and all)reducing the large scale fleet battles.*essentially they could increase eve to a point where there would be entire constellations sitting sovereignty neutral because noone wants the region, these would be places young entities could move and begin. by increasing this you also spread the blob out where the alliances that exist now might have small differences but the lack of space keeps them together. these entities could choose to move and take a new region, if there was an abundance of space. also these new regions wouldn't be developed or mapped like the current ones are, which would give new players the chance to explore new regions. imo this doesnt hurt the current eve in any way shape or form. nor does it harm the older players like myself.but it does greatly help the entire younger eve community.bobbeh"
"support my own idea"
"for further posting"
"god roams would be boring.but damn it be nice to have corp sovereignty, even corps with no alliance."
"why do you believe people would stop forming behemoths of coalitions like they do now?also note that the perceived smallness of 0.0 space comes mainly from the ease with which you can travel long distances.wrong. just like they did with dominion, coalitions will just make room for more renters and lower the recruiting standards. there are enough peeps/corps/alliances wanting to go to 0.0.now that would indeed allow smaller entities to get a foothold in 0.0.galaxies tend to be flat.lol, i wish it was that simple to reduce the blob \"make more space, they'll spread out!\". the extra space would just spread out people ratting. a blob is an organized concentration of force in one spot, it doesn't matter if the coalition has another 1000 systems they could be in.there are practical problems. for instance, you have to put in some riches into the new systems, or nobody would go there. any resource you put there would crash the markets for it hard. and theres more...now don't get me wrong, i think increasing the size of eve is a good idea and ccp will have to do it sooner or later if the player count keeps rising, but your proposal is a bit naive."
"the issue isnt the amount of systems, most are empty any way or only bots. the issue is the ease of travel. with jump bridges, jump/medical clones, jump drives, etc you can travel to other side of galaxy in 20 minutes:pick jump planner, with my thanatos with normal skills (5/4/4 jump skills) from south to north: linkagealso only station systems, and it is 10 jumps. first jump is instantanious, but i ignore that for a bit. so lets say 10 jumps, all station systems. jumping doesnt cost time, 30 seconds session change, docking, lets say 30 seconds for undocking again, 30 seconds session change, jumping again. another 30 seconds buffer, and we are talking about 2 minutes per jump. total means less than 20 minutes to get from one side of universe to the other side, more systems isnt going to fix that.and then imagine that with a bunch of titans waiting in a row to bridge the normal fleet they go even faster."
"i heard they're adding an entire region, called captcha, wherein the rats and roids yield triple the normal amount, but have strange shields that can be penetrated only by decoding their alphanumeric messages and shifting the frequency of their weapons / mining equipment by a correlated amount. this new region will also have delayed local, and allow multiple player build outposts per system. (and i wish this were actually true.)"
"yep, broken"
"supported - low-sec definitely needs some loving. the main reason more pilots don't go there is because of the gate camps, and even those that make it deal with the current insta-dock fotm.i concur that stations and gates should do a lot more damage than they are currently, but that will only cause spider-repping gangs to do it. admittedly, it will be better than one or two pilots able to hold a gate, but it still needs work. however, this would be a good interim change.i personally haven't experienced many supercarriers in low-sec, but i rarely go there (only when i need to get to null with my alt). however, based on the stories i've heard, i can completely believe you when you say that low-sec has a great deal of them. make supercapitals (and only supers) prohibited in low-sec, as concord still patrols there.this is a start, and the other mining revamp thread might also improve things (moving asteroid belts to grav sites only in 0.8 or below). i also think more booster-like items need to be put into the game.tl;dr: low-sec needs some loving, supported."
"i agree low sec broken but not your t3 ships way.and your ideas are not reasonable nor appliable."
"i believe this has already been approved by the csm."
"i believe that is now swg's alternate name. go to the sony forums for that game and look up bots. it's supported. you have bots to level up your character - links available. level up your pet. park & farm for currency. park & farm for rare drops. park & farm for collection items.... they only lack bots for pvp and there are some pretty healthy macros available to help with that portion of the game.i played it a bit and came to the conclusion that it wasn't worth playing. the player base simply bots to \"max level\" then bots for all their currency and bot for all their items. there is no \"playing\" that game outside of just running into the pvp areas or hitting the market to buy/sell what your bot sessions obtained for you.it's a shame really. that game had a lot of interesting stuff to it. space mining that had challenges and risks to it, various pve encouters, pvp areas in the worlds as well as space, etc... it wasn't what it used to be but it was a game that looked quite playable except the bots everywhere. that was unacceptable. i have other uses for my computer and trying to play a game that is bot driven was worthless."
"during swg's cu period, one of the live entertainers (yes, there were a few of them) made several pvp assist bots, trying to make a point of how badly bots could break the game. since soe openly allowed the bots to ruin any work prospects for the entertainers (a gm actually awarded a medal to a well known buff bot for \"excellence in profession\"), she didn't have much to loose through ****ing people off. i don't remember the specifics of how it was done, but i seem to recall that swg had something similar to eve's gang broadcast, and that by digging deep into the macro system you could make the macros react to those broadcasts and call other macros.when she put the master combat medic / master rifleman assist bot out for for hire, it was a favorite among the bounty hunters and ****ed off more than a few aspiring jedi. the ranger bot was another one that really ****ed off a niche group of players, flooding the markets with whatever organics had the best stats for that day."
"yes please do this now!!"
"definitely support this. with all the cost and effort involved with a pos, they should be more than a floating scrapyard in a bubble."
"fully supported, i cant get enough of the \"boom\" effect in eve allready when you reach maximum warp speed, however how cool would it be to have the punching warp jump from the star trek movie? (or any scifi movie in general)the emount of energy released in a warp jump surely should be felt, and id just endlessly warp around to enjoy the sound of italso it would significantly improve the feeling if the cyno animation is changed to a deceleration aswell instead of just \"plopping in\"a dread falling out of trans stellar journey with a bang is just awsome (or jumping into, respectivly)"
"no"
"i'd quite like to see a relatively cheap dedicated subcap anti-cap ship - we don't yet have anything really matching that description. for example, giving bombers a new variety of torp (somewhat like citadel torps):3000hp per torp (to reduce vulnerability to smartbombs)3000m explosion radius100m/s explosion velocityallows for 5-10k dps per bomber vs. supercaps, a quarter that vs. caps~0 dps vs. anything else"
"long time ago i had similar idea, it was something like this:a ship similar to stealth bomber firing x-large torpedoes in same way as they fire bombs - non targeted, detonates after certain time period. but unlike current bombs, they would have to travel minimum of 50km before exploding, possibly all 100 km. and unlike current bombs, support ships would be able to lock incoming bombs and destroy them without making them detonate.that way, capitol fleet would be vulnerable to sub caps unless the capitol fleet has dedicated support to destroy incoming bombs."
"these would kill conventional capitals far too easily. they would make dreads and carriers completely useless unless you had complete system control. cap fights would be a thing of the past."
"not supported. sc are end-game wtfpwnbbqmobiles and should remain as such."
"supported. it could do with a little revision but i'm terrible with numbers and/or eve online.clueless much?"
"flame me if you wan't but i do like the idea of the more they jump around, the less likely they will be blobbing on your face like mentioned earlier. these changes do very little to keep them from dropping 50+ on a fleet of 50 normal capitals.add more nerfs to your proposal so they are only really useful for hugging a pos tower."
"this is what we call an obvious troll. but thanks for the bump dude."
"do you actually play this game? or do you just pay ccp to be able to post terrible suggestions on the assembly hall?"
"well he is right marlona sky. if your in a supercap your stuck in the thing 24/7. it's the nature of the beast. now if they let the damn things be docked then i would be down with a jump cap on them. but as is right now they cant get out of the damn things to go play in something alse. i know make a alt. but thats lame too."
"<< a bit over the top. back it off some so they will turn into worthless ships. then, and only then will you get more support."
"i would be greatly interested in hearing why you think these changes would make them worthless.they would still ) demolish capital fleets ) out dps anything under them in size ) be able to outrep entire fleets worth of damage one eachother ) have the ehp of a pos"
"all your proposal does is encourage them to only be fielded when it will be an ultra blob on someones face. come on man, you should know better than with your half ass idea here."
"no it ensures they will be deployed with support of a subcapital fleet. if for it that means an ultra blob then so be it. that isn't how it is for all alliances though"
"please refrain from personal attacks. spitfire"
"well at least you countered my proposal with well thought out examples of how these changes would do what you say.oh wait, you didn't."
"ok fine.first of all, lowering the drone bay for normal drones is fine. that limits what they can do against support.also the neutralizer penalty is fine too. again, makes it more difficult to fight off support.so with those in place, they will not do well against support, so i ask, why...scan resolution penalty? all this does it make it take longer and longer to lock capital ships. a useless nerf.the fighter bomber nerf, why? if you learned to read patch notes you would know they are being changed so they are no where near as affective against sub capitals. so again, all this does is nerf their ability to fight capital ships.capacitor recharge? are you hoping they bring triage carriers/guardians with them to cap each other up to jump out? if it is not a tactical good choice to fit neuts, then they will just fit remote cap transfers. so again, your cap nerf is just bypassed, therefor, a pointless nerf. but if it makes you feel like your nerf has more nerfness to it, then keep it i guess.the -1 fitting slot. first of all this will just make the hel even more worthless. another thing with all the carriers fitting remote cap transfer, again, your hope of them not fitting a cap recharger to get away is just bypassed.also forcing them to pick between fighters and fighter bombers, why? they are incredibly easy to kill. and with support on the field they will make short work of them now that super carriers are not very effective against support. so again, a pointless nerf that just nerfs their effectiveness against other capitals, not support like you are claiming they are for.so all in all, out of 7 different nerfs, only 2, maybe 3 are needed. the rest is just nerfing their ability against capitals.but, in the end, you have made up your mind you are the super carrier expert, and any discussion on your suggests as can be seen from previous posters, is meet with bitter rage. so arguing with you is pointless, just like most of your proposal. just don't forget to reply to this with some meme or something of the equivalent so you feel like you have won some debate or something. for the sake of the super carrier pilots, i strongly suggest you have this moved to f&i section where it belongs instead of trying to force feed this to us. it is not 100% fail so it deserves to be discussed over there."
"it takes my wyvern about 8 seconds to lock a capital ship. this would could raise that to maybe 10 while at the same time making it take over a minute to lock a dictor. making them that much harder to tackle and kill unless they just idle on grid for a long time before bubbling for some reason. if you read patch notes you would know this change is in fact, already in the game. this change as stated in the op is so capitals arent instagibbed quite so fast by fighter bombers. right now dreads are virtually worthless because of the outrageous dps of fb. this does a number of things. makes them cap out easier if you are neuting them, reduces their ability to maintain sustainable spider tanks, and finally makes them less mobile without support carriers giving them cap. again encouraging the sc fleet to instead become a capital fleet with support carriers and dreads to accompany them. this hurts cap recharge and utility further. that's the point. it won't hurt their ehp just their ability to maintain spider tanks, survive nueting and reduce their mobility. as for the hel...it's already worthless as you said. you cant retract worth from a worthless time. that goes against the very essence of the word worthless. because 20 sc's fielding 20 fighters each melt hictors so fast you need 80 or more just to tackle the 20 sc's for a few minutes. if you want to keep them tackled for the half an hour it would take to kill that many in low lag conditions you need hundreds.given your statements in this thread i am going to go out on a limb and say you dont use a supercarrier. either that or you simply don't use it or you would know the nerf vs subcaps is already in. i do, i have for some years. several supercarrier pilots have already responded and endorsed this thread. so obviously your assumptions are off. but again, you're welcome to your opinion even if it's wrong"
"you of all people are hardly a super carrier expert. lolyou position is unwavering and you refuse to discuss the suggestions. you want to argue with me and others but refuse to see their positions. only \"edfromhumanresources position\"so again, your proposal is over the top. too much of a nerf and you will make these turn into pos decorations or even worse, nothing but sanctume mission ships. also it is funny how you argue for the nerf because you don't like how a specific alliance is using them. so it's, \"nerf how they use them, not how i use them\" proposal.anyways, enjoy the free bumps to your thread."
"so after having all that shot down with reasonable arguments this is the best you can do? guess i am not surprised. see you in fountain if you guys show up again ^_^"
"maybe if you want people to see things from your position, you could try holding a better thought out position rather than the blind ad hominems and unsupported rhetoric?"
":d"
"it is not my goal to nerf conventional caps, and this could easily be avoided. looking at the numbers a bit more closely, titans have a sig radius of 15-16km, supercarriers 10-12km, carriers about 3km and dreadnoughts less than 2km. setting explosion radius to 15km would give carriers an 80% tank and dreadnoughts almost 90% against these weapons, before considering resistances etc. these missiles would be a form of torps and would not gain any bonuses to explosion radius from rigs, skills or implants.with this restriction in place, it's just a matter of deciding on an appropriate peak dps per bomber and making sure that they don't end up displacing dreadnoughts from their anti-pos role. this could be done by giving the torps a peak range of 20-25km - insufficient to reach a large control tower through the shields. smaller control towers and other structures would be protected by their lower sig radius.this would achieve the desired result - supercaps deployed without support would be vulnerable to a medium-sized fleet of bombers, which in turn would be highly vulnerable to a fleet of sub-caps."
"could you cite this nerf confirmation? a link perhaps?ham fisted. i love that."
"alright so you bring a valid point. but these would still be a serious problem for sieged dreads. it may be possible in the future but in todays climate dreads are almost useless as is. let's get out of the woods we are in presently before throwing more into the mix eh?sorry but it's been through direct discussions with people that weren't supposed to happen. we know a nerf's coming, not what it contains."
"bump"
"i support this."
"bumpnb: it would be simple enough to see in some killmails like one i've seen this week where 80% of battleships use artys (amarr/caldari/gallente) .gallente ships loosing their bonus by using artys can do more dmg than gallente ships using hybrids (and so bonus). pathetic situation."
"supportedmight aswell update the missile trail a bit to look more realistic, as in actualy leave a white/gray trail of ejected propulsion gases for a duration of like 10-20 sec and continuely vanishing"
"futanari != nudity. you can have one without the other. there is no \"****ography\" issue here, just people uncomfortable with men having boobs under their jackets, or women having bulges in their pants.note to self: never, ever fall asleep at a gallente rave party. at minmatar parties you'll wake up with an embarrassing tattoo. at gallente parties you'll wake up with a new place to put it."
"bump"
"i based that particular doom scenario on the example 5km/5km small blaster range in original post. large blasters would probably be 15/15 or so and against a signature of thousands it would probably go beyond 100km before any significant damage reduction kicks in .. this is mind you with close range weapons, so \"one size fits all\" - alpha/omega weapons as they do not need to refit.how does it not become op? you are essentially talking about extreme damage missiles with infinite exp. vel/rad.the range scaling would need to be so insanely dramatic to counter the power offered by no-tracking/high-damage .. so high in fact as to make the change worse than what is already available.as said, it is a good/novel idea, but balancing it is going to be a rather complicated task, too complicated i fear."
"currently electronic parts are left out in the planetary interaction. these parts are needed to build tech ii items and are still seeded as industrial goods. please add them to pi just like the others."
"how many did you buy? j/k.a few otehr things should be added as well."
"awesome!"
"hell yes."
"absolutely."
"agreed."
"agreed."
"meh, just what we needed. ubertanking nigh on invulnerable t3 ships opening cynos.hotdropping ratting drakes erry'day."
"in the start there were \"points of interest\" which were out in random space where people would have to use manual multilaterisation and lots of cap drain warps to find them. very tricky gameplay with unique reward.seems most of these sites have warp-to beacons on them now...... lame."
"anything which adds to eve's lore gets a thumbs up from me"
"need !"
"hi bitter vet here.remember when we started the game and aura would appear on the screen and talk to you. remember how she said the game and driving force behind all of new eden was isk and there was plenty of people who would sell their families to amarr slavers for isk? yeah her voice was cool and made the immersion into eve much greater.so bring her voice back to the tutorials and the explanation that eve is dominated by isk."
"gaylente dessie should have bigger drone baythrasher is finemissiles for caldaricoercer needs a slot overhaul to be useful."
"bump"
"not supported.no more amarr buff.and other one, remove their drones, like at zealot.same hull type but t1 ship have drones but t2 not."
"not in this thread we are not.again, no one wants heavy lasers.you can not effectively armor tank it and fir focused pulse weapons.missions, that explains your confusion.unlike all the other t1 cruisers that fit fine in there respective role. i guess you are only refering to the omen.so in the event you don't know what you are talking about we should ignore a ships obvious issues to fly other ship. it is the only dmg bonused amarr gun boat, it is the basic armor ship and should be your training ship and the cost to fit an effective armor one you are better off going harbinger.unlike the rupture, stabber, vexor, thorax, moa, arbitrator who can fit there weapons.shield is the popular fit for all of those, if you are a new amarr player you can not use the scorch shield fit and are prolly not training shield skills. this is one of the t1 cruisers, saying well it works with a niche high skill fit won't help the newer players who want to fly it.there is no small med turret that fits with an effective tank. the other armor tankers can fit out t2 no issue, the omen can not at max skill. it is the least used combet cruiser around and only works with one niche high skill fit, amarr deserves a low skill laser boat that isn't better when fit with ac.so because there t2 line up is good you do not want to balence a ship unuseable by new pvp'ers because people are rocking 100mil zealots in 0.0, a role the omen won't accomplish with more fitting. a race has good ships so screw there bad ones, with additudes like this no wonder the game is so unbalenced.so you think, drake is good so leave all caldari rails alone, nyx is good, don't touch gallente. that is silly, we should be working towards a policy of no more useless ships. the omen has issues, it is why it is so rarely flown."
"actually it doesn't. i challenge you to find the best amarr cruiser pilot and pit against similarly skilled pilots of a stabber, caracal and vexor (all tier2's). come back and let us know just how hard the supposedly 'competitive' omen failed.my initial assessment still stands, swap it with the maller in tiers with all that it brings in fittings and slots. gun race needs a bloody top-tier gunboat."
"supported"
"and your way means they will just fire up a second account to cover the other 10 hours a day (or whatever).placing time limits on bots isn't the way to break them - since they can pay with isk, it just means they have to split the time - little more overhead, but as you said, it's \"not much for a botter\"."
"yes but they need a character with sp on the account. which is more train time or more isk spent on buying characters. then they get banned and have to start again. the only current limit to a botter is hardware and sp."
"um, how is that any different than the situation we have now except they have to do it twice?don't get me wrong, bots need to go, and if i had a workable idea that would actually slow them down i'd email it directly to ccp, but this is going to inconvenience them - nothing more. like paying a speeding fine - it doesn't stop me from speeding. it just makes it occasionally inconvenient for me to do so."
"why would a botter not have as many account/characters as possible. within he isk/ month spending power. my way at least halfs his income. u can say he will buy twice as many to earn the same. wont he buy as many bots and accounts as he can any way. more account = more isk?"
"another 'solution' that hurts genuine players who may in fact have no life and like to play all day."
"player can still grind all day put the limit weekly. a human cant play 23/7 even with no life. adjust the hours per week to allow for the no lifers."
"i stopped reading at stargates might send you somewhere you don't wanna go. the storyline makes sense ( other then slavematar voting people off planet) but all of your proposals are bad.take the same backstory, jovians succeed in opening the wormhole but not back to earth or its galaxy it's too \"insert menacing faction here\" they have sleeper ai, and are as technologically advanced as jove.jove + capsuleers team up to kill them"
"stargates are the absolute worst thing about eve. they could at least have been like stargates in stargate, but no it had to be some arbitrary transit mechanic that is really just a clever way to cover up bad game design.what does any of this have to do with star trek or sto?not a single one of those ideas is bad."
"every one of those ideas is bad."
"you will pardon me for not taking your unsupported opinion seriously."
"this isn't star trek... or stargate... or world of warcraft.this is eve online.if you don't have brains enough to understand that... then pardon me for calling you a bull#### artist."
"you're the only one who supports your opinion, so your unsupported opinion will not be accepted.the proposals you have mentioned would utterly destroy the game. no one would play if there is no guarantee of ever getting to where you want to go. want to get to the next system? transwarp throws you 20 systems away! it then takes a week to get to where you wanted to go because you keep getting sent somewhere else.rubbish idea."
"needs a bit of work, but i support the general idea."
"are you ******ed? how could you possibly get that from my suggestion?"
"so what did you call the game before second genesis? because it is hardly the same game now.nothing in this idea destroys eve... unless you equate lazy game design (aka the stargate network) to be what defines eve as eve... in which case, you have bigger issues than anything i'm posting here."
"you made me log in just to say...not supported(wasted a good 3 seconds of my life)"
"glad to know you felt that strongly about it.it's a good idea, nobody has done anything to demonstrate why it isn't."
"you say exactly this in every one of your threads when the answer is always \"because your ideas are bad\"all of your threads also eventually die the moment you stop rage responding to every criticism"
"because i like to discuss things? sometimes i get discussion, sometimes just a bunch of lazy trolls who think the idea nerfs them somehow."
"it's not that it nerfs anything it's that these ideas are pretty much all contrary to the current flow of eve and would change the game in fundamentally not fun ways."
"how exactly would it not be fun? i think stargates hurt the game's fun factor more than anything else about it."
"because the random nature of the stargates would kill pvp both large and small scale. while you may not be much for pvp you cant assume we all wish to play the game as you do."
"some of you are missing the point. it doesn't matter if these game changes are good or bad. it's pointless to discuss their effect on the game.the proposed ideas are just too radical to be accepted. they change core of the game in big ways. eve will not be eve anymore, might aswell pitch it to a new game project"
"did you miss the whole part about another method of interstellar travel being brought in?all i do is pvp... and make posts that can tank aurora dominae."
"in your dead corp you sold 2 weeks ago? you realize this would drastically increase travel time pretty much throughout the game. is that really what we need? 50 jumps taking 2 and a half hours instead of 1?also all i can find you pvping in are terribly fit ships like this you also always seem to \"pvp\" alone which means the random flinging about would keep your \"gangs\" unaffected since you cant split up one guy."
"are you saying that the stargate system is what makes eve... eve?"
"a good idea wow maybe not sleeper ai, but make the guns smarter."
"a gunned pos still stays much more dangerous, but guns should be less dumb than a brick. it's not like i am asking them to focus fire on logistics ships all by themselves.. that would be too difficult..."
"boost pos gunning skill instead, to control 2 or 3 guns per level and have anchoring 4 instead of 5 as prerequisite"
"i'd be happy with dropping anchoring to 4 and then keeping the 1 gun per level. at least that way you could more easily convince people to actually train the necessary skill."
"supported!and change the pos-gunner role into something more tactical, like an fc for the whole pos, preferably with a different gui (like planetmode for pi) for better overview.pos-gunner:- level 1: calling primary and secondary targets- level 2: tertiary target and tracking bonus- level 3: ew targeting (2 extra primarys/secondarys for ew only)- level 4: extra dmg bonus- level 5: ?if not in one skill, just split it up into 3-5 skills.and then make the pos-gunner skill into a range control thing, @5 you can take control from all over the region (just like remote sensing)."
"supported. pos unmanned guns have been too easy to get around for far too long. small corps have just been getting worn down by time zone warfare from large alliances rather than out thought or out fought.regards,windjammer"
"capital ship wrecks just look awesome, they really add to the aesthetics of the game. i believe the game would feel it had more depth on the battle field if all wrecks could look similar to this concept. blowing ships up is simply the staple of eve. the cooler that looks the better. when you salvage a ship it could then turn into the little floating scrap heaps that we currently have. this just makes more sense to me.this could be a toggable option in the menu as to prevent people with older systems having to suffer with the extra details."
"supported, especially with the toggle option :)"
"it would cause lag, nice idea but i doubt it will happen if it adds to the lag of a fleet fight."
"awesome idea! client-side lag be damned"
"the capital wrecks are not created from the capital ships themselves. the wreck from the first titan was put there manually by the devs, and they're averse to doing that due to database clogging.i'm not disagreeing with the issue - i think it'd be awesome. i'm just saying it's not likely to happen."
"i posted a combo graphics update proposal ages ago but can't find it on these horrible forums.but i think ships should break apart into pieces based on the model instead of turning into indestinguishable scrap."
"as per ccp adida's demands! who: everyone who has eve client!what: the security penalty bar doesnt do anything. on shortest it does nothing. on safest you only have a couple options but the bar from 1-100... only setting around 1 actually makes a difference. similar and opposite for least secure.where: in the eve map!why: how the hell does the thing work? it's like magnets; it works on miracles only. just remove the useless thing. when: anytime autopilot is used!"
"out of all the things in eve to make a proposal about, you pick this? just set it to what makes you happy and forget about it.i'd rather see way points be clearly marked when not in map mode, or the f11 menu be made into something useful, or an \"avoid populated areas\" option for autopilot.if this bugs you though, i have bad news:you know the \"close door\" button in elevators? those really don't do anything!"
"you will notice i have made a few other threads in assembly hall. only couple hundred."
"most appear to be overt trolls."
"i love that button, it allows me to laugh at the guy running to get on the elevator"
"i think the title sums this issue up well. csm selection should be based on the candidates' critical thinking skills and knowledge of current mechanics, and it's currently based on which candidate is the nicest to other people (and so gets the most votes from people on premises totally unrelated to knowing what makes a good game feature.)you might ask, \"but xolo, what system do you propose we use? surely the players will still want a part in the elections of the csm, and we can't rob them of that or they'll make a lot of whiny forum topics.\"i have the answer, and it lies with history.a long time ago, even before the backstreet boys were still hip, a group of british colonies decided they didn't like tea and biscuits, so they decided to secede. after they realized they had no government, they established their nation under a pure representative democracy - similar to what the csm election process is now.fortunately, there were also smart people running the nation. they decided that since most of the public has no idea what makes a person good at making decisions (or in this case running a country), there needed to be a filter process. the electoral college was established, which is essentially a committee of people who know what makes a good representative/decision maker.the csm needs an electoral college to help weed out some of the more stupid choices by the csm-voting player base. i propose one of two similar ideas:have ccp either-serve as the evelectoral college (i don't have a doubt that they, as game developers, have critical thinking skills and an in-depth knowledge of the game.)orpick people to serve as members of the evelectoral college every x csm elections (it is also likely that they can judge these attributes in a non-bias manor.) (please write in what x should be in your comments. i personally think every 2 elections would be reasonable.)in either situation, the evelectoral college would elect a group of y (could be anywhere from 25 to 150+) candidates the players would then vote on.i think this would lead to much better csm groups."
"you forgot the senate and the house to balance out the csm's power. could you pick a ****tier style of elections to emulate?"
"yes, you could. \"democracy is a terrible form of government, but it also happens to be the best one we have.\""
"then you want to suggest a democracy not a republic."
"you can call it what you want as long as it works."
"the electoral college is a relic of a time when the average travel time between cities was measured in days, not hours, and people couldn't take that much time off to whatever they were doing in order to put food on the table to go talk about tax law, most of which they didn't understand anyway.given the advances in technology - hey wow i can talk to someone on the other side of the planet instantly - the electoral college is like the last living dinosaur of a previous governmental era, and i for one am just waiting for it to fossilize and die.on the subject of the op, of course it's a popularity contest. you don't actually think all those nice people in washington are there because they're smart and have your best interests at heart do you?no seriously...you don't think that, do you?"
"and in your opinion this new system that is based on something antiquated and incredibly ineffective should work better than our current one?"
"something being old doesn't negate its usefulness. the electoral college does its job well, and there is no need to change it - it still being around is testament to its effectiveness.if you actually have an argument as to why this idea wouldn't work, you can feel free to post it."
"right, ignoring the numerous downsides to the electoral college are not \"actually arguments\". or hey maybe you think something that nullifies many players votes simply because of where they choose to take up residence is a good idea for some reason. but something tells me you actually want this method because none of your candidates got elected and you think this will help in the future for them to do so."
"perhaps you should take it at face value and not make ridiculous assumptions."
"you mean like the assumption the current voting mechanic doesn't get us the candidates we the players want? you are railing against what makes up the very core of a democracy while at the same time shining your \"i love democracy\" badge as much as possible."
"the fact that something is still around doesn't indicate it is particularly well suited for the current environment. but you don't really expect those guys to vote themselves out of a job do you? human nature being what it is, i expect we'll invent teleportation and have colonies on other planets before we get rid of that particular antiquity.as to why this idea wouldn't work, it fails the check of the k.i.s.s. principle. there's no pressing reason to chance the existing system, aside from the fact that you don't particularly like how it works. it's politics man - all politics is conducted in one of two ways - either by being popular (ever stop and wonder why they call it the popular vote) or by having more guns than the other guys.and, being as this is a game and the csm are doing their jobs as effectively as any other set of elected representatives, there's no pressing reason to alter how they do business. sort of your own logic, there, wot?"
"the candidates the players want aren't the candidates best for the csm. as i've explained, the most well-liked candidates get the spot; being well-liked doesn't make you good at game design.the csm should to be a committee of people who both understand the game from a player's perspective and understand game design or have good critical thinking skills. the election process, as a whole, is a way of finding the people with those two traits, and as-is it is flawed. nobody votes of the people most fitted for the job, but rather the people closest to them or the most famous people.it doesn't make for a very good csm."
"i like that you've reasoned out why you don't support. the comparison to the electoral college given in the op is arbitrary and the idea is quite different in practice (as outlined in the op) so let's disregard this talk about the electoral college in actual politics.there is a pressing need, in my mind, for it to be changed. csm candidates are judged by players based on how well they can sweet-talk or how large of a public image they have, not their working knowledge of game design (or the game, in some cases.)if you think about it, this would work well for picking candidates who have those two traits, as well. ccp have a good knowledge of game design, so they (or someone they appoint) could take care of selecting players who have a good knowledge of game design - then the players could find which of those candidates have the best knowledge of the game."
"so you think that a group of players voted for by the \"dumb\" popular vote will vote for the \"smart\" players because....why?also why do you assume the people in position right now shouldnt be there? because you disagree with them? because their area of expertise isn't in your own area? that's pretty arrogant"
"players should need 30m skill points and their own t2 bpo before they are allowed to vote."
"now remind me, why would the current csm bring this idea to ccp in its current form if the current election process is what got them their seats?also, this is by far one of the better csms we have had. stop crying and get out of assembly hall."
"i have 4 words for you:sarah palingearge bush"
"you do realise that there are a lot of pretty worthless t2 bpos out there? some of them are worth as little as a billion isk, and it just isn't right that someone so poor should be allowed to vote.also, given that voting runs over a number of days, i think you'd have to evaluate this as 'person with a t2 bpo in their inventory during downtime 1 week before the polls open', or it might turn into a game of 'pass the t2 bpo, i need to vote'. if we're going down this route, i suggest a property qualification of 5bn isk to vote, and 50bn isk deposits for anyone wanting to stand for csm, refundable only if they make it into the top 50% of candidates by votes accrued. non-refunded deposits are permanently lost."
"repeal the 17th amendment! wrong forum ...anyway, though i do understand the op's intention, it seems overly complex for eve. instead perhaps what the csm needs is something closer to what is being done in iraq.in iraq, a certain percentage of seats is reserved for a class of representatives, such as, women, shiites, sunnis, kurds, etc. for the csm, this could also be done, people in alliances, npc corp players, high sec players, people with negative security status, people with alts, people with out alts, people over five years old, people less than a year old ... so on and so forth.something like this would ensure diversity, and still allow popular representation.so, although i do not agree with the op's method, i do agree with intent, so supported."
"scrutinizing their candidate representatives is something any serious voter should do. in cases where direct interaction with candidates is impracticable, it must be done through the media, which of course assumes a working and independent media. putting that in practice this could mean you can make interviews, hold round tables etc. and try to expose why a candidate is not suited according to your definitions. again the saying \"people get the government they deserve\" remains true...proposing an electoral college just shifts the problem, because then we have to decide who is apt for that. and if ccp selected them it would be a bigger farce. and of course ultimately the assumptions you are basing your proposal on are flawed because the csm doesn't have any real power, so even if it was composed of dorks and would push for bad/unilateral changes, ccp could and will reject ideas they deem unhealthy for the ecosystem that is eve."
"ok it is hard for me to endorse this as many a player makes a lively hood transporting goods through courier contracts. that being said i do endorse more love to be given to jita.if i was not mistaken not to long ago ccp \"reinforced\" the jita node and was begging ppl to lag jita out. i wonder what happened to that?another thing is i would propose trial accounts not being allowed to talk in jita local. that i would endorse.also for someone like me. i make a good amount of isk in export import, i.e. moving items in between trade hubs and making a profit on the price differences, so your proposal would kill players like me that dabble in that."
"restrict the volume of traffic that stargates can let through, in a similar vein to wormholes.that will fix jita good and proper!"
"i am starting to fall into the add a single low sec system to all the major trade highways camp. that should distribute the trade more."
"you want my honest idea?i've been saying this for 2 years since i've started playing.you want an effective solution... raise sales taxes on sellers when the market activity is dense.this would encourage people to move their goods to areas that are quieter. and naturally very little to zero sales tax on said areas.so the less busier it is... the more money you make... encouraging people to shop elsewhere... and trust me... they will shop at areas with cheaper prices... count on it.we have all this space and crap and people seem to forget that you do not have to sell every ####ing thing you own at jita... let alone rens...or amarr...or.... you get the idea."
"catgirls worked out well enough in domination tank police... a cyberpunk anime from the late 80s early 90s. and how long has cat woman been in the batman comics? or how long have people been dressing as black cats for halloween? things like this aren't exactly new or limited to a single genre."
"o.o..... sometimes i am astonished by things that appear on this forum..."
"you, sir, are the kind of person who would actually buy a na'vi fleshlight."
"i'm not surprised.creeped out a little, but not surprised."
"while the gallente are supposed to be liberal with the bodymods, kemonomimi might break the immersion of dark and serious internet spaceships. and unlike the \"mystery bulges\" in the other topic these aren't hide-able under clothes. of course this is assuming that the stations have a dresscode so you can't just walk around in underpants.you also need to consider the options how you can combine the body parts together. horns for a wanted pirate sounds cool, right? not so much if you can make something like this. and since there's enough creative fanboys everywhere, do we want to see five suikas (or whatever you can make with the editor) drinking spiced wine in a bar in jita 4-4? probably not.don't get me wrong, kemonomimi and other things can and do work in a suitable enviroment, but eve isn't one for them."
"as per ccp adida's demands! who: everyone who has drones!what: similar to stacked guns. stacking drones would create many improvements.where: anywhere there are drones!why: basically drones despite improvements over the years and a pseudo option of \"focus fire\". they still do not focus fire. sure there was a significant improvement, but they are horrible at thinking on their own. i see the results in pve and pvp. stacking drones would create a single drone in space visually. less lag. it would be a single drone so there wouldnt be a focus fire issue. the drones also can act like missiles. do enough damage to the stack and you are killing drones. the 2 issues arising however. if you're enemy targets your single drone. it's way easier to target it and kill it. while on the otherhand if smartbombs are going off. it takes far more cycles for them to be effective. when: anytime there are drones!"
"nobody?"
"it'd be neat if their model would get proportionally bigger the more drones stacked."
"in all seriousness, supers are getting so out of control that they dominate every aspect of 0.0 warfare directly or indirectly today. there is absolutely no balance possible with these ships and the emo *** culture of internet e-peen gaming, so the only smart thing to do is remove them. i'm perfectly willing to give up my aeon and the skills trained just so this game can be a little better again.as was predicted so long ago, even before the patch, there has never, nor will there ever be a significant battle with supers where an attacking side engages with the assumption that they could even lose 1 ship. this is exactly why these ships are so out of balance."
"if you think ccp is just going to up and delete trillions of isk in assets out of eve instead of trying to balance them you are more daft than i ever imagined."
"not to mention the fact they dont need to be more balanced. they are quite balanced."
"i don't like opening the mail, pressing the compose button and getting some message about the mailbox loading.so please let us start writing faster."
"as per ccp adida's demands! who: everyone who has run a mission!what: a system that maybe once a week standings and lp decay toward 0 if there has been no recent transaction. it can be a slow process like 1% per week or so. the intent being to zero you out after about 2 years or whatever amount of time; as long as there hadnt been recent activity in said standings or lp. moreover, could even be a curve so those with -10 to blood raiders will take a much longer time to reach 0.where: anywhere there are standings or lp.why: so right now i have 15 lp in yrtria corp or whatever. i did a single mission for them years ago. this garbage lp is utterly useless to me. clogging me up. i would gladly sacrifice the lp to get it off the list. no doubt this mechanic would clean up lots of entries in the database. which makes it far more efficient. moreover, i have a ton of entries in standings; most of which have nothing to do with me for the longest time. the net effects being: cleans up database and afterall the database is awful crashy as it is. this helps out improve database. the other net effects are all positive. nobody is totally locked into being stuck in place from their current activities. when: i think a weekly standings and lp modifier toward being 0'd out and getting the entry removed."
"why, beside your love for bad suggestions?the only effect is that people returning after a hiatus will have to restart from 0 standing. great way to get people to return."
"you can't get enough of grinding npcs can you.not supported, horrible."
"no."
"sounds good to me.but erm should be if no recent activity has taken place between agent/corp within the last 30 days an automatic change of 0.25 will take place to the charactors standings between the agent/corp towards a neutral/0.0 standingmight have to increase standing gain/lose though, because it would take 3.3 years to lose 10 standing. or reach neutral standing towards a -10 corp/agentbut to be honest ccp could do quite a bit to reduce the database size, such as if someone has been inactive for 1+ years all their assets and their charactor be relocated to a high sec system that borders low/nullsec system. eve-mails be purged from inactive accounts. [items/ships not allowed in high-sec be placed in the nearest acceptable system]trial accounts older than 1 year be purged from the system, previously subscribed accounts inactive 6+ years be purged from the system.removal of skills like ded connections from the system.also would like to add, that it really does help if you describe why you do not support this idea instead of saying just \"no\"."
"no, many of us don't like grinding. if you want to get rid of that lp, we will be better of getting a way to donate lp to others/corp."
"time heals all wounds, eh?i have killed thousands of republic citizens, should they forgive and forget merely because i happen to find someone else to kill for while?i have served the imperial militia for ages and accumulated a nice little stockpile of good-faith from their agents .. should they not honour their debts?ps: 1% per week = -250k lp for me the first week, stopped running missions a long time ago.decaying anything -> grind!!! .. hell no!"
"not supported. logistics of trying to setup a wh and living in one / or going to 0.0 and living there for a while would be crazy."
"they already are going to be improving the models of every ship overtime.they said this when they first announced the scorpion update."
"btw - is it allowed to bump that topic? i hope it is."
"if you want to see how incompetent and useless the csm is... just check out:"
"incorrect.concord punishes the 'wicked' while your thoughts are preemptive, vindictive, and ill advised with how the game works and doesn't work as in the next time you hit dock your ship warps to a station and takes more than 3 seconds to dock, or gets hung up on the station trying to warp."
"jita and any other trade hub for that matter should become less and less safe as more ppl use it. it might help to stop the system overload!"
"suicide ganking is explicitly intended and supported. if ccp didn't want players illegally shooting each other in hi-sec, then it would be extremely simple for them to simply disallow these actions rather than have a complex system of punishments and consequences.your \"beliefs\" are not a factor in balancing the game."
"on blobs i have always thought of blobs as a faction massing their entire force for one attack. i view it as like the entire us army all attacking... berlin- at once.the idea of force concentration is a well known idea and in eve their is no operational reason (that i can see at least) to have a group spread out their forces due to the mobility said forces have. the best bet for a group at this moment is to make a huge fist of ships and smash into their objectives in some sequence, one system after another. if my side tried to use 1000 pilots to take (or defend)three system at once along a front the other side would use their 1000 pilots on one group of 333 pilots then move on to my other fronts and roll them up in detail as well. as carl von clausewitz was able to conclude:\"...we may infer, that it is very difficult in the present state of europe, for the most talented general to gain a victory over an enemy double his strength. now if we see double numbers prove such a weight in the scale against the greatest generals, we may be sure, that in ordinary cases, in small as well as great combats, an important superiority in numbers but which need not be over two to one, will be sufficient to ensure the victory, however disadvantageous other circumstances maybe...\" on war, book 3, superiority of numbers.so there is no issue with how the game works it is just what the operational realities of the game cause. it is just that some people (or a lot) find the said reality ... less then ideal. much like how some people look back at the operational realities of napoleonic warfare (those great lines of troops caused by how inaccurate muskets were) stupid when we are used to accurate rifles."
"so what happens when everybody's given in to the blob? let's put this into real-life terms like you did: what if the us army all attacked berlin, but the bridges were too small to support all those troops at once so everybody had to go home instead?i don't know about you, but getting blueballed out of a fight because the server couldn't handle it is a pretty good reason for ccp to start designing mechanics to reduce the blob. stealth bombers were a good change. let's see more stuff like that to prevent capital blobs"
"i was merely offering an idea what a blob was since earlier in the topic there was a rather long debate on the nature of what a blob was. i later explained (or tried to at least) that the reason a blob occurs is due to that's the best tactic at the moment given how eve combat works at these large scales. much like how the inaccuracy of muskets resulted the massed fire of lines, the need for dps and other factors has lead to the 'blob'. to change this you either need to alter the operational reality that corporation leaders face. much like how rifles lead to the end of the lines of infantry you need to make having huge 1000+ pilot fleets pointless. i'm not an expert but off the top of my head but perhaps you could have an increase in how long it takes you to target an enemy based off every extra fleet due to the warp field that causes ships to fly through space like its wd-40. (seeing as a 1000 man group would have 4 fleets (at 256 people per fleet) at least, so this could work depending on the penalty) you could also make it so that ship mobility is less on the strategic level this would open up doing multiple attacks on several systems to spread out the defender and thus perhaps give you local numerical superiority in one area as they respond to one attack only for it to be a diversion and unable to respond in time.i really don't know how to fix this i was merely pointing put my idea on why is is occurring and that is because it is the best tactic for the situation at hand. but that does not mean i don't think its an issue- tactics and strategy for the wars should be more then just about \"how many pilots can we shove into this system?\""
"i find this disturbing on the premise that it give ccp 'a year or so' to do what they should have been doing, regarding botting as well as rmt operations, allows them to basically start doing that **** now. imo if they were working the problem it wouldn't take more than a couple of weeks, maybe a month, to put together some data to show us how awesome they are at working it in a real devblog not like that spin control fluff they tossed out a few days ago."
"one of the challenges is preventing false positives - they absolutely want to prevent banning innocent people. and it's not as if r&s and economics have nothing else to do :)"
"if you want to see how incompetent and useless the csm is... just check out:"
"ah, i'd completely forgotten about freighters (as i don't fly them) when i thought of that.i see a few ways to fix this:1. new module that decreases the charge time of a remote vessel.1a. for other ships, a module that works on the ship it's equipped to.2. a side effect to webifiers now is that they decrease the target's charge time.3. open to suggestions."
"i use it most of the time when i fly a freighter and dualbox valuable cargo or want to get somewhere fast (roughly 2min per system instead of 4min, no hanging around .5 sec systems).and it also made somewhat sense to me, as i invest coordination and more resources to get an 100% improvement above flying the freighter solo..that's why i would like to keep this 'feature'.i know that in other threads i'm not a big fan of wtz and the fast travelling, sue me. if i'd have the chance to get longer travel times for all of us again i would accept the removal of the slingshot as price. anyway, more off-topic.. i was reading peter hamiltons night dawns trilogy and liked the concept there, where they calculated every jump and it took them some time (they made short jumps to get out of system and growing longer ones to cover distances and at the destination they needed smaller jumps again). your charging the core before warping heads into this direction.if eve is ever going to change how/where the actual focal points for pvp and markets develop, we'll need another way of moving between the solar systems. and a warpdrive that charges up will be a first stepping stone for that to happen.yeah i know.. i dream of actual local populations that will maybe only 3-4 times in their live have seen jita and roaming gangs that at most can cover 4-5 systems a session.i imagine a far future without stargates. a system where we can utilise the vastness of the full universe, and jump into any direction we want. if we want to go from jita to perimeter for instance, we'd need around 2-4 jumps, each taking around x minutes (charging jumpdrives and alignment taking the longest).jumping short distances within systems would be faster naturally.. the key would be to make it so, that the focal points of pvp would be those private jump-points. you'd have to wait there the further you want to jump. more people could find you on their scanners and go after you the longer you need. would need a new intel system naturally..ah well, far far future.. maybe.that being said, back on topic.. your idea got my support, as upon implementation there will be enough people coming up with ideas for slingshot/teamwork stuff regarding this."
"would love it if warped looked half as cool as it did in the eve videos. then again i would love it if the game played like the videos"
"no"
"vote yes for excellence!"
"this was after the fb change correct ed?alsoif the problem is that they are super hp with super rr tank why not just remove their ability to rr eachother and make them need carriers...?does that not solve all the problems? without soo much change?as carriers are easier to kill, by support and are jammable and very able to be neuted.tho im not sure how we can say supers cant be neuted as imperians erebus was neuted out by evoke and killed in less than 5 minutes.but it is my opinion that before any changes to supers are made, that the way shield bonus's apply needs to be looked at. as at the moment is gives armor tanks jumping into a fight an unfair advantage.also i think if your gonna nerf the sc ability to nos i'd nerf the effective range of them not the cost of them.make them 50% less range so that gives hics and dics a 15k buffer where supers cant neut them but they can point em/ bubble them.also their is no need for the slot reduction as you know cap recharge is already terrible and 1 pdu doesnt change that.but then again i think the whole argument is moot, because when dreads were king they had no counter except a bigger dread fleet.good luck bringing a bs gang against a dread gang unless you severely out number them. not to mention carriers i've been in a 50 man carrier fleet and taken a 500 man support fleet, we had 3 losses. this is force escalation, people refuse to use the counter that is given to them, which is small fast ships to clip fighter bombers then dreads to finish the job, done and done. problem is usually lag. or people wanting an easy fix.there are definitely some changes needed to super carriers but what you have listed is a lil stiff."
"actually you bring forth a few very valid points. i think a range negative instead of an activation bonus would be better. it wouldn't outright bar their ability to use the module but would hinder them using it against tacklers.i also think you are right about the dread fleets of old. i will work on responding to this more lafter after i eat :)"
"whoops, wrong account"
"honestly, the only thing that needs to be nurfed is fighter-bombers. the whole idea of bombers was ill concived during a time when ccp was desparate for moms to become more useful. the ships themselves are actually perfectly fine (except the hel which needs a light buff to match the other ships)."
"so without fighter bombers its \"perfectly fine\" for a ship to cost 25x and only do 2x the dps, 1.5x the rep, a lot of ehp, trapped in the ship, and ewar immunity?why not just buy 2 carriers and and a second character off the character market so you retain the ability to switch out to any ship on command?without fighter bombers motherships are less worthless than pre ehp buff but they are still pretty ****ty."
"then youll understand its more than a little difficult to take your word for it. especially given your groups penchant for, how shall i say this,..stretching the truth?i mean, on the one hand you say a an upcoming supercarrier nerf has been confirmed beyond the shadow of a doubt and on the other hand you say its from a secret source only you know about. would you believe that from anyone else much less a member of your group? this is your groups main thing. deceit for the sheer joy of screwing with people."
"so in your mind you think a long time supercap pilot would troll the eve world to get supercarriers nerfed for what benefit?also it's not just my source. i am just the only one raising my voice about it. your knee jerk reaction however is noted. you forgot to mention we only fly t1 rifters and that there are no goons or one of a dozen other worn out memes."
"your question was answered before you asked it. i repeat, for the sheer joy of screwing with people.oh. i see. youre the only one of a secret group of people who have secret advance knowledge of a secret supercarrier nerf. it all makes sense now. if only id known there was a secret group.are you actually thinking about what youre writing? the above makes some sort of credible sense to you?as far as my knee jerk reaction? come on! your group has worked long and hard for its reputation. its not going to go away merely because its inconvenient to you at this time.-windjammer"
"actually \"my group\" has at least 3 members that now work for ccp at ccp reykjavik and have had 2-3 csm members in every csm but the most recent one. we were the group that published a guide on how to make deep safes.we were the gruop that published a guide on how to properly do grid fu.we championed the titan changes that allowed them to be killable because they were finally tackleable.we have one of the most newbie friendly and intensive wikis outside of evelopedia(which is often horribly out of date)if any single group in eve has claim to not be trolling when it comes to game mechanics we do. if you think we don't keep in touch with csm members you're daft. that doesn't make me part of a secret club. it just means i have a continued concern towards the game's well being."
"just a friendly reminder: please try to keep the discussion in a civil and constructive vein. thanks!"
"we need to fix super carriers in such a way that people will actually deploy them in combat. make them cost half as much, and do a third less damage and we might see them being fielded for something other than packing a cynojammed system full of them as a show of 'strength'."
"i did not say remove fbs all together - i am saying nurf them a lot. like 25% less damage and far worse missle explo radius sort of nurf. to be honest, i would much rather have seen their logistics buffed considerably then see what they are doing right now.its either nurf the sc, change the sc roles to match what they were origionally ment for when they were called moms, or buff dreads. and yah, its not about isk value. isk value should not determin the relative strength of the ship - ex the price is not 2x the strength - that makes the game a boring liniar progression which eve should not be about.but really, the new scs are game breaking imo and i am forced either to get one or get a drake. i am going to get one bcause thats what i have to do to get any front line fleet fun without dying in 30 secs. hay, i'm ok with that - but i still think its breaking. don't you?"
"if sub capitals or other ships suck, fix that.fixing the nerf of dreadnoughts will help a lot./not supported"
"i completely agree they are overwhelming to both capitals and subcapitals beyond what they should be. that's why my original post actually includes a 30% fb dps nerf as opposed to your 25%. i also don't think carriers or motherships should be viable towards subcaps at all. that steals the thunder of subcapital fleets in my eyes and makes the game a little less fun."
"what was nerfed about dreadnoughts that would allow them to kill super carriers more effectively?"
"and your group loves to screw with people. you have not addressed that assertion nor have you given any reason to believe you have special knowledge other than we should trust you. as a member of a group of people who love to spread disinformation we should trust you. your assertion that the supercarriers will be nerfed may be correct. as nerf happy as ccp is and with zulu parked where he is it could well happen. however, your suggestion that the eve community simply take your word for your alleged inside information is ludicrous. to state it as a matter of fact is absurd. to expect us to accept it as fact in support of your plan to nerf supercarriers your way is unbelievable.regardless of whatever else your group does or has done, it is composed of many who love to troll. look up your groups history. its on the web for those who havent had firsthand experience.what youre saying is some of the csm members are in violation of their none disclosure agreement? further that your group regularly communicates with them regarding insider information?-windjammer"
"actually i never claimed the csm said it. you said that. assumed that. as for knowing goons history i am fairly well sure i know it more intimately than you. so if you think this is just a simple troll you don't think supercarriers would be more balanced from these proposed nerfs?actually i really can't tell at this point if you honestly don't think supercarriers are a large problem in current form or if you're simply trolling.you surely can't believe that because some goons trolled that everything any goon says is a troll. that's straight pavlovian conditioning right there."
"yoohoo!!! you crazy guys you... was just wanting to say i bolded something here!so if that is the case mr. goonie then why do you rage when anyone suggest removing the ability to field any non-fighter/fighter bomber drones from the ship entirely??? seems to me by doing so puts the sexy *squeel!* super carriers and normal carriers at more risk. thus making support ships more viable on the battlefield. isn't that one of the aspects of your idea??- <3 toffee stunner"
"do please provide proof of where i raged at the idea of removing non fighter/fighter bombers drones from the ship entirely. just did a scan of the thread and i can't find me saying any such thing. i actually encouraged the removal of their ability to field as many non fb's. it's part of my original proposition. i see one spot where i pointed out that removing fb alone and retaining everything else would remove this ships role versus capitals, which it would. making it a very expensive carrier that does pretty much everything the same as a carrier. but i never try to discourage someone from suggesting you take away normal drones. but yes i think that supercarriers should be more at risk without support present and thus make support more viable/vital on the battlefield.i also took the liberty to make your post a little easier to read. removed the signing of the post since your name is clearly evident on the left hand column."
"oh honey... please don't be made at me because i write different than you. - <3 toffee stunner"
"so nothing on topic to add re: supercarrier nerfs?"
"in point of fact i did not say that nor did i assume it. i asked you if thats what you were saying.-in post 32 of this thread you state, we know a supercarrier nerf is incoming. that's been confirmed beyond a shadow of a doubt. we just don't know what it contains yet.-in post 71 of this thread you reply to my request for a method of confirmation with, sorry but it's been through direct discussions with people that weren't supposed to happen. we know a nerf's coming, not what it contains.-in post 81 of this thread you state, if you think we don't keep in touch with csm members you're daft. that doesn't make me part of a secret club. your statements clearly state you have insider information from a group you will not name. further, your statements strongly suggest that group is composed of members of the csm. if not the csm, then the only other source for such insider information is ccp itself. either you are alleging someone is in violation of their none disclosure agreement or your claim to insider information is false as is your allegation of nda violations.im sure you do know the totality of goon history better than i. this does not change the history i know nor refute anything ive said about that history. i do not believe this is a simple troll. i think its an attempt on your part to gain support for your nerf plan by making false claims you cannot support.i dont believe everything a goon says is a troll. i believe goon history points directly to distribution of disinformation for giggles and self benefit. eve is hardly the first or only game goons have done and are doing this in.i dont believe your op is a troll. i believe its a genuine attempt to nerf supercarriers in such a way as to gain your group maximum strategic and tactical benefit. i believe that your concern is more for goons and less for eve and i believe youre more than willing to make false statements to support your concerns and endeavor.-windjammer"
"well for starters it means that supercarriers can't shoot pos, and everyone knows how much fun shooting pos is.more seriously, it removes their ability to run anomalies and generate an income to offset the cost of having a dedicated sc alt. this would lead to less accounts and ccp would never go for it."
"hai! yes. i would like to add your idea is nothing short of a castration rather than a balanced approach.please don't hate me for my opionion, you asked for it. - <3 toffee stunner"
"it is castration to be sure their intended role(which is anti capital work) remains intact and unintended roles(against sub capitals) does not?"
"no darlin, it does not. you make them player owned station modules that cost more than the tower itself. please rethink your idea, discuss it, and then bring it back in assembly hall. thank you sooo much honey! - <3 toffee stunner"
"stop posting."
"yeah. that'll work. exactly what you needed to say to get him to stop."
"perhaps a reason supported by some mechanics/data supporting your wild claims?as for you, you are a forum alt that has done nothing productive on the forums since 07 but try to troll any thread with the word nerf in it unless it involved nerfing suicide ganking in some way. you came into the thread with some very obvious trolls but was humored for a while, you still have brought nothing beyond \"u r goon u troll\" and certainly haven't added to the discussion at all regarding supercaps and their use or misuse. i will likely keep responding to you because i appreciate the bumps but i won't be trying to argue with you anymore because you're using circular logic that is as flawed as it is annoying."
"tbh imho motherships should lose their ew immunity (except warp disruption)"
"hello mr. goonie, please s.o.s. more goonies into this thread to try and convince the rest of us this is a good idea. seriously though, this idea has some merit, so i am not saying it is all bad. it is just not ready for a vote in assembly hall. - <3 toffee stunner"
"i could get behind this if the method of tackling remained the same(bubbles and hictors only). vulnerability to ewar would permit subcaps to jam, sensor damp(hahaha, i hope people don't seriously use this module), jam, or target paint(not sure why this would be needed but whatever) the supercaps. jamming alone would make it much harder for supercarriers to counter hictors and dictors attempting to tackle them. it would also give subcaps a role versus supercaps."
"/epic facepalm- <3 toffee stunner"
"ah. another set of allegations. aside from the very obvious and never denied fact that windjammer was created exclusively as a forum alt., do you have some substantiation to your claims this time? or are the readers just supposed to take your word on these claims too? correction; i came onto this thread in post 70 with a polite question which you were unable to satisfactorily answer. your answers spoke to your lack of credibility as does your lack of response to post 95. if your credibility can be questioned in one aspect of your presentation it brings suspicion to the rest of it and that brings to question the value of your presentation.correction; i did not say you were trolling. in fact i said you werent trolling or at least that i did not believe you were trolling.you really should look up the definition of circular logic. it does not mean what you think it does and i never employ it. perhaps you know more about supercarriers than you do about logic?you really should have dropped your claim to insider information. it has not served you well.your responses to me havent been arguments so much as attempts to avoid my questions and mischaracterize my statements. youre avoiding because youre boxed in, in post 95.-windjammer"
"sorry windjammer but i checked your posts, including the ones you referenced to, and i didnt see anything relevant to this topic: the proposed nerf for supercaps. now i am all fine if you are just here to troll goons, but they made a special subforum for that, caod."
"this is your best troll? that i am \"boxed in\"? afraid i don't see it the way you do. i \"avoid\" answering your allegations because you're just trying to drag the thread into a political discussion. i call you an alt because you are. either that or you're a 3 year old eve player who was never once joined a player corporation, which, honestly is far more pathetic. do you have anything to add to the topic beyond your previously unrelated talking points?"
"relevance, fur killer, is found in my disproving the ops allegation made in post 32 of this thread regarding his access to information nobody else has. the op partially bases his request for support of his particular nerf by stating a nerf is coming and suggesting it will be a lot worse nerf than his suggestions if we dont accept his suggestions and try to move them through the csm process to ccp. its nothing less than an attempt to panic people into accepting an overboard nerf of supercapitals which will benefit the play style and membership his group uses. this is a one dimensional perspective and is hardly good for eve as a whole.this is what he wrote, we know a supercarrier nerf is incoming. that's been confirmed beyond a shadow of a doubt. we just don't know what it contains yet.the question is do you want it to be something like this or ham fisted like a 50% ehp reduction?the op has been unable to cite a valid source and unwilling to do anything other than, in effect, say, trust me. hope this helps you.-windjammer"
"if this is a problem for you then simply don't support it. not really a complex concept. with zero experience in a player corporation or even a non newbie corporation you obviously have zero experience with supercap warfare so your opinion on the topic is...less than valued. your greatest concern in your quite vast posting history seems to be suicide ganking. that hints you live in empire and have for your 3 year existence. you likely use this character because you believe it saves your \"peace loving\" main from retribution from your trolling. beyond that when i say that the sources wont be revealed it means just that. which is also not a complex concept."
"this is your best response? more avoidance of the questions regarding your credibility? claims that im trying to drag the thread into politics when what im doing is questioning your credibility with some very direct questions? questions you will not answer for fear of treading upon yourself?-windjammer"
"what part of makes you think that i want this one random empire dweller believe me when you are here just to argue pointlessly? you have brought literally nothing to this thread and continue to. but as always i appreciate the bumps."
"maybe you are just reading too much between the lines?all i get from it is the typical introduction to a nerf-xyz post, where the op says something along the lines of \"its so blatantly overpowered it will get nerfed we all know it\".still supporting the original idea, as i actually think in this instance its really true.edit: and in fact, implying \"someone who knows for a fact told me, but i cant tell you who\" would most likely still spell trouble for the persons involved."
"i dont support your proposal. id thought that was a simple enough concept for you to grasp. further, i question your honesty in arguing on your proposals behalf.i find it interesting that youve been reduced to name calling and speculation of my experience in eve based upon my forum alt. how extra sensory of you. is this how you got your insider information?you wont reveal your sources because they dont exist. a sad attempt to panic people into supporting your nerf proposal. did you really think people would believe you because youre such an honest guy?-windjammer"
"so with this post you admit you're here just to argue and troll. thanks for this."
"i might believe that if hed offered a correction to his statement. instead he danced around the question and follow up questions. hes not just making an exaggerated statement. hes suggested he has insider information. check out post 95 for a list of what he posted and itll give you a better idea of what im talking about.i agree that it should, but i wouldnt go so far as to say it likely will.-windjammer"
"and with this you admit youre calling anyone who argues with your proposal a troll. seriously?-windjammer"
"oh golly gee! so ed received insider information?! only the csm would know stuff like that. so which csm member broke the nda?? well throw in the pooper sideways and call them spanky, to think this would be the first csm without scandal. so much for that. - <3 toffee stunner"
"two clear alts trolling a thread with the same angle whilst providing no substance to a thread? surely it's just a chance ^_^ either way i appreciate the constant bumps. you two are welcome to add to the thread as per the mod request anytime you wish."
"i'm sorry eddie, i simply do not agree with what you want to do to the super carriers.i left it at that and you kept replying with, \"why?! why?! why?!\" you even used your alt yourself and messed it up exposing the alt as yours. so can you please let us say we don't like it, give the reasons why, and if you don't agree, leave it there? anyhoo, again, i strongly advise you take this to ideas and discussion forum where it can be worked on. a lot of good things happen there so please don't be afraid. - <3 toffee stunner"
"you mean when i responded with an alt on accident and immediately admitted it was my alt? if you haven't noticed all my alts have the same naming scheme and thus are bad for alt posting on forums anonymously."
"fot those of you bleating about imagined nda scandals as you attempt to cast yourselves as the julian assange of eve, here's a quote from the winter summit thread:the csm spent 3 hours talking to ccp about how dominion had changed 0.0, and the first thing on sokratesz's list is supercaps. its not hard to figure out the nature of the discussion.on the other hand, maybe you're right, and the csm's priority for this discussion was to talk about how underpowered and useless supercarriers are and how they needed triple the ehp and dps from their current levels?(it wasn't)"
"why you gotta ruin my fun scatim? none of these trolls would have stumbled upon this."
"because i'm a lol t1 goonie nerfsploiter and so my only reason to play this game is to ruin it for everyone including you"
"ah well, the logs should be out soon and they can see the exact things said with everyone else. but :tinfoil: :tinfoil: :tinfoil: :tinfoil:"
"are you saying this is entirety of your information source?-windjammer"
"no, with warp distruption too. that would be stop the brainless scs hotdopping on a single ship.they can safe their ships against with small stuffs, they can use, neutralizer,small drones,fighters etc.it's time to remove their all ew immunity before the game change to sc online (almost 1500 in game, and every months, this number growing with over 200+), it's time to make it the game to dangerous for them too.stop 100+ sc fleet blobs now, before will too late"
"omg cause we were already at dreads online......... think before you post.tho i do agree with vuk i think they should have a large sensor srength but not be immune to ewar. i do think they should keep their immunity to points and webs. or else we are gonna see dd titans that get webbed off grid immediately after their immobility timer. its obvious something needs to change for super carriers.earlier in the thread i voiced my opinion that a simple change to neut range for sc's would suffice as then they cant counter hics with neuts. another thing i wanted to mention is removing their ability to use ewar, meaning supers cant web or tackle, or target paint or anything like that (minus their projected ecm.) my final point is make fb's signatures bigger.as's and cruisers should beable to lock them quickly so make their signatures bigger.so to sum it upif i was gonna recommend a change to super carriers it would be this-40% to neutralizer and nos rangecannot fit ew modsfighter bombers get a larger sig.+20% to smart bomb rangecannot use combat scout drones (this means mediums heavys and lights cant be used) but sentries and ewar drones and logi drones cangive super caps back their old insurance.oh i also forgot if we do to much to nerf them we will see a drastic reduction in their use and therefore also their death.at the moment at least 1 is dieing per week on average. the best way to combat the growth of super carriers is to make them worth flying. so that people use em in combat."
"as discussed on twitter...make super carriers actual carriers. - increase ship maintenance array from 2.5m m3 to 10m- bring back the clone bay- remove +3 fighter / bomber per level and set it back to 1 (dropping their dps dramatically, but still able to defend themselves) borrowing ed's idea a bit...have a separate fighter bay and drone bay. 600m3 drone bay, enough fighter space to hold 1 full set of bombers and fighters.- keep their current hp and ecm burst- increase their jump range to that of carriersi believe this would help to re-balance super caps. super carriers would be more logistical support, but still able to defend themselves on the field...but they wouldn't be the main damage dealers anymore. let titans and dreads fill that role again. they would be able to help pilots re-ship during an op and if someone gets podded they can jump clone back to the carrier. this might make them less of a front line ship, but that is the point. i envision the future of large fleet battles to be (in order of damage) titan, dread, super carrier, carrier, battleship, hac, bc etc...peace o/"
"i will edit more into this response later as i have time tonight i just wanted to say do you remember how utterly worthless clone bays are/were?"
"why not simply use a normal carrier?i'd go the other way and add the removal of the remote repair range bonus to the list in the first post. the supercarrier role is dps, so why do they have logistic bonuses? if we compare them to subcaps we see that battleships don't have remote repair bonuses...supporting this though :)"
"basically this.if ccp wants the supercarriers role to be megabuffered anti-capital gankmobiles, then fine, lets have megabuffered anti-capital gankmobiles. no problem with that. what's problematic is when they are megabuffered anti-capital gankmobiles which also have the abilty to sustain permarepping circlejerks, neut and ecm burst anything that looks like tackling them, switch between effectively infinite waves of different drone types to respond to any threat, and carry vast amounts of assets in their cha and sma, all at the same time, from the same hull, and even the same fitting."
"size does matter!"
"def.ya!"
"i like it."
"it makes sense from a realism standpoint. but it could cause problems when players increase their tank by using armor repair drones at the same time as they use an armor repair module.perhaps you couldn't have both work at the same time."
"when i found out about this, i asked a logistics pilot if you could assign your drones to another ship and have that pilot send them to repair you. nope -- can't do that either.so you can use them to fix ships, assign them to other's control but in no way can they be used to fix you while you \"own\" them. that's odd don't you think?(ps: my thoughts on assigning: single logistics backing up a gang. you're liable to need repairs...)"
"you still don't get it, do you? try and get into the spirit of mutual cooperation: you rep him, he reps you! and look up 'spider-tanking' while you're at it. eve sports excellent mechanisms for getting repped in a fashion that benefits all. what it does not do, however -- and really never should, imho -- is allow a convoluted 'path' in which you bring your drones under someone else's control, so you can then indirectly rep yourself anyway."
"okay, first of all, i get the whole idea of being in a fleet and supporting each other makes for interesting gameplay, and i completely agree. however, given the fact that being in a fleet already has a huge advantage over somebody who happens to be flying alone, i don't agree that being able to rep yourself with your own drones will stop people from working together--especially since the person who is using repping drones is losing out on the dps from combat drones they could be using instead. it simply allows a player to have the option to last a bit longer (for help to arrive maybe, which is in agreement with your stance that working together is better for eve), and possibly allow for more diverse fitting possibilities. it seems like we should have the option to do so. if you don't want to use logistic drones in that fashion, no one would be forcing you to, but let others who want to try something different do so."
"supported"
"supported.you need to remember that if you have repair drones out that you now don't have ecm drones or damage drones out. you do get a benefit but you also lose a benefit.and i think saying repair drones encourage grouping is a moot point. there are so many benefits to grouping up that repairs drones don't even really factor in. allowing repair drones to repair own ship is not going to discourage people from joining gangs and solo instead imo."
"very interesting"
"i agree blasters definitely need a fix. i still don't get how they can be as short range as an autocannon, have about the same damage, track slower, yet use capacitor and larger ammo.maybe this is it, i'm not sure. i half support this on the grounds that i haven't used blasters enough to tell."
"fix rails also please.this sounds great, lets have a blast with blasters :d"
"supported"
"supported....blasters need something! (remove reload time?? )"
"how about instead of boosting and changing gun mechanics, we fix the currently broken and op autocannons. :p"
"nice idea but wont get my support.tbh i would rather prefer a full redesign of the blaster ships, because i think the guns are fine (except for some minor fitting stuff) but the ships are the main problem in applying the damage.seeing and testing the adrestia (alliance tournament hac) one can only wonder what gallente could do with their blaster-boats once they get a little love."
"why don't we just ask ccp to make all the weapon systems function in a realistic manner instead of the arbitrary manner in which they currently work. it would make blasters work just like you want them to and fix railguns at the same time.as it is now there is some unknown force that stops our weapons from functioning beyond a specific distance when the real world says anything we fire inside of our 250km limit would travel the full 250km's with little to no dissipation. it's ridiculous that a ship 225km's away still has the same signature radius it has at 20km's. for a missile that's perfectly fine but the further away a ship is the longer it should take to target and the harder it should be to hit.fix this and every weapon gets it niche. rails are now the sniper weapon of choice(assuming the devs don't screw over rails and make lasers the most accurate weapon in the game which i wouldn't be surprised at all), blasters get a shotgun effect making the the short range alpha strike weapon of choice. lasers of all types function better in the middle ranges than any other weapon system. lasers having the least accuracy but highest dps of all the long range systems and pulse lasers have the highest accuracy but lowest dps of all the short range systems. projectiles fit nicely in between the two having neither the accuracy of rails nor the dps of lasers for artillery as it would keep its alpha strike role and ac's wouldn't have the pure damage potential of blasters or the accuracy of pulse lasers.create 6 distinct weapon systems instead of two that have really crappy version that the gallante and caldari tend to use."
"i see hybirds as needing only two things.1. 5 sec ammo reloads/changes becouse there havle way to everywere lets finsh that off.2. nich hybirds suffer from no nich. the only real nich that i see left wide open in gunnery is tracking. i say keep the lower alph and ranges but inc. tracking. tracking will be there nich. 20% base tracking inc on blasters and 30% base tracking inc on rails.there now they have there nich and thats not overpowered ether.edit: as a side note before someone comes in and says that 20% is overpowered on blasters plz keep in mind that ac's and blasters have very close if not same tracking and ac's have ammo's that have 20% tracking build into them. and on the 30% it's not so much of a tracking inc over the other two gunnery picks. keep in mind that rails are mainly a mid range weapon. yes there are some sniping platforms for them but they are mainly a mid range weapon system and need the tracking boost badly. they already suffer from a number of other problems like being cap hungery and low alph and low dps. so lets just have them hit more often."
"approved. easing fitting requirements of blasters in general would solve many of the problems. it would free up one-two rig slots that are now used for ancilliary current routers. increasing tracking makes sense as well as long as the main gallente anti-frig weapon (drones) are broken.the problem i've experienced (with current pg requirements) is that there aren't any great rigs out there for max gank ships to fill those slots to the same effeciveness as core defence field extenders boosting ehp and regen of shield tanked ships by 52%.how about a stasis webifier rig that would increase the effectiveness of a web by say 5-10%/rig?other than that, as long as i tell myself that gallente boats are made to kill stuff as big or bigger than them i can sleep well at night. in those cases tracking doesn't matter as much (you can use your max drone bandwidth, sentry drones can hit bc and above, blasters and rails can hit targets) and the ship is actually fast enough to catch up to its prey. the trick is not getting blown up before you get there and have a gtfo plan for when you're targeted and nueted once you get there. you can tune your setup to take on smaller stuff or specific opponents, but it's at great cost that really narrows your engagement envelope much more than other ships."
"a) ammo size changes: sure thing, its way out of line and needs to changeb) rails: yep, needs change too, their long range flavour doesnt dig it, neiter for fleet nor pve. high dps low alpha would be my preference but im fine with anything that isnt a copy/paste of the artys.c) blasters: erm, no tnx. they are fine from my pov but need different ships to be applied from. nothing wrong with the damage-output, though their tracking and fitting needs a little love, but all in all its the blaster-boats (read application) that is the problem. just try and compare the deimos and the adrestia on sisi as an eyeopener."
"i want wikipedia-style immersion in my immersive game play experience :)"
"yeah, i miss a lot, was thinking there is more. but didnt fnd much. and i am sure its not lack of skills anymore.+1"
"i like it but i think it could use a bit more.each year, have a memorial beacon setup in systems that have had the largest fights in them. not just \"2000 ships flew in and out\" but things like x number of ships lost... region finally take over... that kind of stuff. a kind of 'this game *is* player driven\" style memorial but only put up like once a year type thing. let some of the 'lore' follow the players vs the players just following the lore."
"moar lore plox."
"1.0"
"absolutely supported. shouldnt be much of a big deal for ccp to implement, will help a lot with sorting and shouldnt cause anyone any kind of problembest regards,windjammer"
"i couldnt agree more with your topic. owning over 200 bpos and hundreds of bpcs i find it scary if the 2 cans ever become 1 lol ccp fixed the ab/micro look now lets fix the bps looks, u have my vote"
"in some ways this is more needed than the mwd/ab graphic change. especially for those of us with large bpo libraries"
"they did bring her back im fairly sure? they also have aura on droids."
"is this about the ccp-bot or the voice?"
"does aura still call you an ******* idiot pilot for getting podded?that was great..."
"we need more aura!!!"
"yes, it's true. not supported too."
"completely and totally not supported.arguments and better suggestions.if you care.tl;dr : the actual problem is a combination between invention waste and a severely limited supply of \"bottleneck\" moon minerals. the solution to that problem is the introduction of alternative moon mineral procurement methods and ways for invention to yield positive me/pe levels even in the absence of decryptors. fix that, and you \"fix\" the \"t2 bpo problem\" without even touching t2 bpos at all.thumbs down on this thread's proposal."
"invention is fine as it is. i own no t2 bpos and i can build 10 invulnerability field iis in the time it takes that invuln ii bpo owner to build one from his single efficient print (fun fact: t2 copies from bpos take longer to create than actually building the module, making it less cost efficient). in 2.5 days i've cranked out 100 and sold them for 30m* isk profit (10 per run x 10 slots x 300k* isk per unit profit). he has built ten for 5m profit (10 per run x 1 slot x ~500k* isk per unit profit] + cost of (2 x 2 hmp x 2 qp) datacores needed to invent the print at ~50% success rate). his other 9 slots will have to be the -4/-4 prints he invented [unless he makes them from copies, which only serves to reduce that print's output/profit over time]).i make 30m every 2.5 days running my 10 slots. bpo dude makes 34m every 2.5 days running his 10 slots. not game breaking. if i want to earn the additional 1.6m isk per day, i can buy that 30b* invuln ii print from him. (i dunno about you, but 1.6m a day is a negligible amount of isk that one guy in 350,000+ accounts is getting for owning a rare collectors item ... the isk equivalent of 2 low-end bs rats).there's now a healthy datacore market that tons of people both contribute to and rely on and that's a good thing, imo. i'm actually pretty impressed with how ccp implemented invention post-lottery.can't support this. * numbers are pretty much entirely made up because :effort:. i have no idea what that particular print would sell for or if it even exists anymore."
"grind for r&d missions. train research project management (and advrpm).get free datacores every day forever. there's your own free money for life."
"only if the owners are willing to sell it. most aren't into doing that.as such, either remove them or make them available in the game again. imo -- getting rid of a few is better than making more. let everyone compete with invention.these are an unfair advantage that cannot just be gotten rid of by blowing something up."
"no. no one has demonstrated, yet again i might add, that there is a problem. if you want a t2 bpo, then buy one. it is that simple to acquire one. the roi on these is not significantly different from any other big investor income like supercap bp copying or prestige item investment.the comparison with unique ships remains valid. those ships are limited run prestige items which can and are sold to other players. so are t2 bpos.as to gaming the t2 lottery, i don't see evidence that current t2 bpos in existence were gained using anything other than ingame mechanics. sounds to me like some people are still whining because bob was the first to game the system."
"i'm of the mind that t2 bpos should be removed for a very simple reason: resources in mmos should never, ever be fixed. it does very bad things to the economy. there are some rare exceptions like one off ships, but not something as major as t2 bpos. there should either be a means for producing them or they should not exist and be left entirely to invention. personally i'd prefer removing them entirely. replace them with high end 1000 run bpcs for all i care, just get rid of the damned originals."
"i totally agree with akita t on this one when this is a thread about fixing t2 manufacturing! which is not! this is about bpo's being an unfair advantage. #1 it is limited! and dont compare it to a ship cmon dont be stupid bpo's affect the market. which affects the game. which we play. you get the point. #2 t2 originals are lightyears better than copies. atleast for t1 copies we can get a decent me/pe that its ok to manufacture on copies. t2 copies give you negative me/pe while originals can give you perfect me/pe. notice the polarity? its black and white! the best or the worst! and mind you non original holders get the worst! which is majority of the eve population. #3 invention sucks! it takes a loooong chance based process to get the worst blueprint. you train 2 months and wow you get 6 t2bpc out of 10 attempts. congratulations! -4 me/-4 pe! talk about double sucking. those are three solid/factual points that makes t2 bpo's totally unfair. but on a sidenote. t2 production cycle is broken imho. i think akita t pinpointed it with the moon minerals. with or without bpo's t2 items are created with moon minerals and they are not an option it is a requirement for all t2 items. you got the skills and the blueprints wait you dont have a pos.. \"no ones gonna stop me ill buy from the market! wtf!\" market prices cut down your profit too much its not worth it anymore (sometimes it is). unlimited supply of originals would not make it accessible to manufacturers. and yeah the dreaded invention! but like i said these are all nice to haves. but taking away the bottleneck would only multiply the earnings of bpo holders. therefore making it unfair. yielding positive me/pe would probably be a good fix. but taking away all bpo's and letting the inventors invent all t2 blueprints (i wont call it copy or original). is the best solution or vice versa give everyone access to t2 bpo (not seeded in npc like t1 the distinction happens when you make it difficult to acquire it but you have access to it) and make t2 bpc(via invention) as the entry level for t2 production. you make copies cause the original is too expensive. t2 bpo copy time stays the same. although through this solution i see invention dying cause more t2 bpo holders = more bored manufacturers that make t2 bpo copies. thats just my 2 cents."
"qft +1 to one of the very few consistent intelligent posters on these forums.holding a t2 bpo is not only riskier than inventing, its also less profitable; the original owners didnt get theirs for free either\"but how is it risky?\" you may ask; all it does is sit in station and make silly amounts of money! perhaps you should ask the people who bought eos bpos before the eos nerf; now theyre stuck with a useless bpo that they cant get rid of because nobody wants it; actually its worse than useless because it's billions of isk sitting there and they will be old men before they ever get their money back on it.i invent, a lot, so while a t2 bpo owner may be able to make 5x more isk per unit, i make 20x more units than he does . . . and im adaptable.lastly, the original owners did not get theirs for free, it cost them all of their rp accumulated up to that point, which equates to billions in datacores when invention came out because they were crazy expensive. say it with me people opportunity cost.tl;drt2 bpos arent unfair or even any more profitable than invention, its just easier which, imho, is why people complain. still not as easy as some ways of making isk *cough* technetium *cough*"
"no, stupid idea is stupid."
"removing them would be even more unfair than some people having them. even making the bpos into bpcs that have enough runs to last for 5 years of continuous production is so-so imo.i'd rather see a way to get new t2 bpos, say gather 1000 max run bpcs on a station in npc 0.0 or deep lowsec, use an expensive disposable piece of equipment and wait a month to get a -4me -4pe t2 bpo which could be then used normally."
"<- omg. that guy haz a guardian vexor. that's so unfair. that's like 71b. (approx, not selling)well though luck buddy. i bought it back in the day and it was a wise investment. same deal with the t2 bpo's, i sold what i got from the lottery, and somebody else made an investment.if t2 bpo's go, every novelty and unique item should go as well. i just don't see why?unfair advantage you say?so effing what? this is eve. the game built on unfair advantages.the funniest part is, that the \"omg remove t2 bpo's naow\" people, don't seem to think that the t2 holders should be reimbursed if it happens. not adequately anyways. i mean. those bpo's are sold for 3-4 years of projected profits.as i said earlier in this thread.t2 bpo's should be removed because they are unfair to you, and the owners shouldn't be adequately reimbursed because eve is an unfair place. (reworded)hypocrisy much?"
"i strongly disagree. i see no reason that t2 bpos need to be fixed. after all, fixed resources are neither good or bad for an economy. they're just another quirk that you can have in an economy which you have to deal with. second, moons are a fixed resource which is an even larger portion of the economy. that fact doesn't have a good or bad effect on the economy either.this brings up one of the reasons i favor keeping t2 bpos even though i don't own one. the moment you either remove them or allow creation of unlimited numbers of them, you make it like most of the rest of the eve economy. i see no value in that. the fact that they are a fixed resource adds interesting subtlety and complexity to the game."
"if you use that guardian vextor it can be lost. unlike t2 bpo. as far as \"eve is not fair\" goes, by that statement people usually mean, that if you bring 5 guys against 2 guys you have edge over them. however \"rules of play\" would be same for both gangs. unlike with t2 bpo's where \"rules of play\" favor one side so that \"2 guys\" beat \"5 guys\" every single time. no amount of spinning stuff will hide that and i'm confident that one day they will get removed. i'm just asking the devs to take a good look at them now instead of waiting for another 3 years for that."
"no.this has to stop, how easy do people want it? some want it too easy, you're playing the wrong game."
"i can take your post and change the entire meaning by altering one word, it's probably not a very good post."
"supported"
"supported.either make a mechanic where people can get them in game or remove all of them."
"there.let the only person employed by ccp with the actual credentials in order do the assessment.enough of these ridiculous threads that always end up with fence-sitting monkeys throwing faeces at each other."
"supported on the grounds that we will never know for sure which devs were handing out how many t2 bpos, and on the grounds that the lottery was a dumb idea in the first place."
"i support the idea in principle though those who have bought them should get something fair in return before they are removed.but it doesn't seem like such a very big deal since the uses per month are limited. i think it would be better for ccp to concentrate on completely reworking industry from the ground up and simply letting these bpos disappear at that time."
"t2 bpos owned by established corporations and alliances seem to me to give them an advantage that newer corporations can never hope to attain. they help established organisations stay wealthy and reduce game dynamism."
"the credit idea basically sets a hard exchange rate for plex. that is, the credit idea sets a maximum isk value that a player can extract from the game while their plex lasts. paying more isk for a plex than that value means an account cannot be maintained on plex alone. getting less isk than that for your dollars will drive people to illegitimate rmt, thus encouraging more botters, since botters will be the only people who will be able to extract the full value from that plex.anchoring the value of plex means it will no longer be useful as a trade commodity, and you kill off an entire market (and the markets that depend on it).would you spend a significant portion of that afk time docked?would having a standalone eve chat client allow you to remain in contact enough to decide when you want to log in and start burning hours?"
"urr what about players that dont pay for the game in game but use that thing called, real money. my account doesn't have a count down on it. it just keeps on going, and limiting game time is, and im sorry if its blunt, is just about the dumpest move a game make could me. bad idea, if you wanna catch a botter this isn't the way. it isn't even a good way of lowering their income. all it would do is lower everyone elses and make sure they stay as the top tier earners just right at the max allowed."
"this is one of the worst ideas i have seen here, including the trolls.the day that a subscription based game limits the amount of time i can connect in a day/week is the day that i stop paying the subscription."
"the time limit is not a limit of time you can spend connected to eve, but rather a limit of how much time you can spend actively making isk. the idea is to set reasonable limits that any human would be hard-pressed to reach the limits of, but that would still severely cripple botter income.i am in favor because i think that even cutting botter income by one third will make their business much more difficult. it will decrease their profit margin by a lot more than one third, and force many of them out of the business entirely. the ones that remain will be unable to compete with plex, and nobody will be able to buy isk for cheaper than right from ccp.make it 16 hours a day, or 84 hours a week, i think."
"as long as this applies to plex only and not normal subscription, i'm with you. if people pay to play a game there should be no restriction on how much you're allowed to play"
"i hate bots but this is not the right way.there should be no difference to gtc or subscription./not supported"
"this would have to effect all subscription types. players even who grind all day should be uneffected. could have a weekly reset of 112h thats 16h a day. people have to sleep/eat bots dont."
"wasn't/isn't there some kind of law in some country that limits how long kids could play? it was put in to prevent the \"addiction to games\" stuff. i vaguely recall something like that from some asian nation.i also recall it didn't work out too well against anyone dedicated to bypassing the limits.interesting idea but i don't think it'll work to hamper bots -- it would only hamstring players. i know i get free-time windows and, in the past, i used to do \"marathon\" sessions. i don't any more but i think i'd have a bit of an attitude problem about having my \"rare gaming windows\" closed by such a mechanism."
"supported. yes it might affect the 1% of plp that don't have a life, but for the greater good of the server this is a step in the right direction."
"to improve the drone user interface i suggest the following:- the drone slot interface has similar buttons as the low-mid-high slot interface, which is currently at the right side of the hud- the drone slot interface has a similar functionality as the low-mid-high slot interface (including grouping and perhaps more)- the drone slot interface is positioned on the left side of the hud or below (switching the drone slots and low-mid-high slots to opposite ends of the hud should be an option too)"
"add:- every ship has a limited number of drone slots for grouping, which adds new tactical options for each ship"
"is there a reason why higher sp characters need to pay a lot more for their clones then lower sp characters - all the higher cost does is keep higher sp characters from flying t1 frigs and having reckless fun without the massive overhead.how about just set a standard clone cost of 5 mil or so and have a one size fits all clone instead of this massive overhead."
"it is there because it's a tradition and game will turn to wow in space, if old players can keep having fun with cheap pvp."
"srsly?"
"as it stands, chance to hit is based on distance to the target. a weapon with a shorter optimal range and/or falloff won't hit targets as far away.i propose a more realistic scenario that will also increase small ship defense against larger ships when at a distance.make chance to hit based on both range and signature radius. instead of small weapons having a shorter range, you would need to be close to hit small ships. this would mean that battleships can no longer 1-shot frigates just because they have a range advantage; and in fact the frigate at long range could hit the battleship, for all the good it would do.this would also bring back missioning in small ships. you could fly around the group in your fast frigate and the battleships would never or almost never hit you, close or far. and you could whittle them all down gradually. i don't think flying battleships or battlecruisers with massive tank should be a requirement for running missions.here's a different way to look at it:when a weapon is fired at a target, it'll never hit the same exact spot twice. instead, after several shots are fired without turning the weapon, a \"shot group\" can be seen on the target. this indicates the accuracy of the targeting agent used to fire the weapon at the target. this shot group is based on apparent size; hence the actual size of the shot group on the target will increase with distance.when the target is just big enough to be covered by the shot group with little overlap, most of the shots will hit (provided the target is stationary). if it were half the apparent diameter, most of the shots would miss. this is the sweet zone, you might say, where distance to target and firing accuracy make the biggest difference. beyond that, you're out of effective range. closer than that, and hitting is just easy.based on this, and assuming there's no gravity or wind (because in space, neither of these are significant factors), a target that has twice the diameter of another target can be hit effectively from twice as far away.in eve, this is not the case. no matter how large a target's signature radius is, that small autocannon will just never hit it past about 8km (depending on skills). furthermore, no matter how small a target's signature radius is, there's no way a large artillery cannon is going to have trouble hitting it at 35km unless it is orbiting too fast to be tracked. this doesn't make any sense, but more importantly it puts tiny ships at a severe disadvantage over large ships when fighting at long range."
"not sure if serious.hit chance is already also dependent on sig radius:"
"hit chance is dependent on target signature radius and turret signature resolution. bigger ships have bigger sig radius. bigger guns have.. it's either bigger or smaller signature resolution, but the point is, big guns do have a hard time hitting small targets, unless the frigate is sitting still or flying straight towards the bs, in which case it's not a moving target and thus easy to hit."
"came here to post this. sorry bro, ccp is way ahead of you just as aineko is ahead of me."
"i've heard people say this is true, but in-game it doesn't seem to be the case. it always seems easy for a large turret to hit a tiny target in the distance, simply because it is unable to orbit faster than the turret's tracking speed. even if it were trying to do so, it would still have well above a 50% chance to be hit squarely just for being somewhere in the vicinity of the turret's optimal range. it doesn't seem fair that a small ship should have so much difficulty protecting itself from larger ships. they may not have a chance to get close enough to the large ship to orbit it before they're alpha toast, whether they move straight toward it or at an angle. and in missions, you have to go up against large numbers of large ships at different positions, meaning you can't be maintaining maximum orbit speed with any of them; while you're moving sideways to the view of one, you'll be moving straight toward or away from another.also, when a frigate-sized turret tries to hit a very large and unmoving target just a little ways outside of its optimal range and falloff, it'll virtually never hit. even when it's as easy as hitting the broad side of a barn at point-blank range (literally!), the weapon can still empty an entire clip and not score a single hit."
"this would be because you don't understand the mechanics behind tracking and sig radius. keep your transversal up. i assure you size matters when it comes to being hit by weapons"
"i do understand the mechanics behind tracking and sig radius. i'm sure it makes a difference, but obviously not enough. that's my whole point. if a frigate can't hit a battleship at 5km and a battleship can easily hit a frigate at 50km, then it's based on range a whole lot more than signature radius. now stop pulling up the \"it's listed somewhere so it works\" token and think for a moment. if you've been in these situations like i have, you know what i'm talking about.intense analysis of the game mechanics won't change the facts. the fact still stands that a frigate can't hit the broad side of a barn at anything beyond point-blank range, and a battleship can hit a fly off your nose if it were somewhere near the battleship turret's optimal range. if there's already a game mechanic that makes signature radius have an effect then maybe it needs a major boost, because i don't see it through actual play."
"weapons have a max range. if frig sized weapons could hit anything at 50km, they would have no trouble hitting a bs. but they can't shoot that far.like trying to snipe 1 mile away with a 9mm pistol, it doesn't work that way."
"why not? it's pretty easy to hit an aircraft carrier with a 9mm pistol at 2 km, if you and the aircraft carrier were in space. the only reason it doesn't work on earth is because the muzzle velocity isn't high enough to counter gravity and air friction. an assault rifle firing 5.56mm nato rounds can hit a target pretty easily a mile away because the muzzle velocity is much higher. but in space, muzzle velocity is only relevant to how long it takes for the projectile to reach the target. and given the incredibly fast travel of projectiles and railguns by eve standards, i don't think that would be much of a problem.can you people please stop and think about your points before you mention them? lets try to keep this thread relevant to the topic."
"while flying a cruiser or battlecruiser, time and time again i notice that i don't seem to ever have enough room for both my ammo and anything else i want to carry. i ran some numbers up, and came to the conclusion that destroyers, cruisers, and battlecruisers all average about the same size cargohold. however, cruiser size ammo is much larger than frigate-size ammo.in this .rtf document, i have made a fairly lengthy report on how much i think the cargoholds should be increased, and why."
"/bumpi put a lot of time and thought into this issue and i think it holds merit. how many times have you flown a cruiser or battlecruiser and wondered why a couple hours worth of ammo takes up half of your cargohold?"
"i was doing some logistical work earlier today, and while sorting through my hangers to delete junk and consolidate useful things, i was confronted with hanger after hanger of one item: a velator! i had to go through all of these hangers and delete these little guys one at a time, which was quite tedious. looking at my other toons, even the less heavily played ones, the same situation occurred. now, while it wasn't hours of terrible labor to delete the ships and clean my hangers, it was a good 10-15 minutes opening, deleting, closing, and refreshing hangers to get this done. plus, they will be back within a few months, as i travel by pod and get popped and dock in new stations. this is work that adds nothing to the gang, and is nothing more then a unnecessary grind. therefore, i would like to propose the following:add an option in the settings menu that reads...[]spawn a rookie ship in my hanger when i dock in a station that does not have another ship in it.[]prompt me whether i want a rookie ship to spawn when i dock in a station without another ship in it.[x]do not spawn rookie ships.reaver suggested \"they could just make a rookie ship claim option somewhere in the station interface, so if you want one you ask for one.\" this seems like it would be swell aswell!pros and cons as i see them.pros:-less clutter! making you gaming experience that much nicer when pulling up your asset menu, searching for items, and trying to reduce the number of stations you have stuff in.-an all around good change that ccp can make with what i assume would be little coding work and a nice tidbit to throw into a patch or expansion.-klyeme said that \"it would also make more space in the database for other things (even though the space isn't really needed now)\" this is also very true!cons: ...seems like a straightforward and easy change that would make the game better for most everyone that plays it with minimal resource use by ccp. thought?"
"an \"on/off\" switch for this sounds reasonable."
"yes!it would also make more space in the database for other things (even though the space isn't really needed now)"
"each time i destroy a ship i am bothered by the lack of a realistic wreck. when i kill a battleship and i get a glob of junk that is only the size of a frigate it bothers me. i would love to see more accuratly sized wrecks that don't just condense down at the moment of the ship's demise. if at all possible as far as software and the server go could there be a ship shaped wreck? as opposed to a much smaller random and unrelated blob of scrap metal, and if not could the wrecks be at least scaled better to the size of the ship model they represent.-wrecks that look more like the ships they represent-wrecks scaled properly-specific ship footprint wrecks-racial/faction wrecks (amarr wreck has some gold and what not...etc)"
"it might be interesting, just as eye candy. i do like the way capital ship wrecks look like blasted out versions of the ships they were."
"ya it would be nice for all wrecks to look like burn out husks of the ships they were previously."
"wrecks having hitpoints relative to that of the ship they were produced from would be nice too."
"**warning: big words in use!**for some absurd reason people have started moaning about the presence of t2 bpo's again and threads are filled with misinformation, misconceptions, half-truths and outright lies.i here by propose that ccp dr.eyjog is put to work on an analysis of the market as it pertains to t2 items to ascertain the ramifications of a full or partial bpo removal.analysis should include, but should not be restricted to;- moon materials; ability to supply materials needed were bpos to be removed, volumes consumed by bpo vs. invention, bottlenecks.- value and volume of items built with bpos compared to invention.- projected effect on t2 prices should a full or partial removal be implemented.whether you support this or not, please give me ideas as to what should be included in such an analysis."
"science and industry subforum would become a ghosttown if eyjog could finally put this to rest.supportan."
"might be off topic a bit, but i would be curious to know if there are any items so miserable that people don't bother inventing them.i.e. are there any t2 items on the market that are only produced from the bpos or copies thereof."
"yes, thre are items that are produced by bpos only - quite a few of them actually. . . since basically every mod has a t2 vrsion, less used mods are often bpo only."
"the research i did in my invention days indicated that most if not all of the low-volume items like cap relays and armour hardeners (eanm's are king!) sees very little non-bpo production.for some items it is quite simply too resource intensive to turn a respectable profit .. one would need several alts doing invention and supporting jobs to make it work.fw might have changed things as frigate modules sky-rocketed in price and even cruiser modules went up a bit, but i have no data so can't say for sure. the amount of \"useless\" mods may have gone down."
"yes, please."
"ad hominem for one and what does the corp i'm in have to do with whether or not i pvp?it used to take far far longer. but wtz killed the entire point of eve being big.yeah, clearly jumping into a camp with a travel fit isn't the best way to look good on a killboard...what random 'flinging about'? i don't think you understood what little of the op you read."
"sorry you don't \"travel fit\" an absolution. not without any guns, or cloak, or ecm burst, or ecm, or nuets. also your \"combat\" fits are terrible as well. 3 plates, 2 hardeners, heat sinks. truly awful.edit: the only people who think the removal of wtz was a bad thing are gate camping lowsec pirates."
"isn't there a steady chorus of bittervets complaining that wtz made eve too small?"
"ownedyou jump through, you go who knows where. your gangmate jumps through, he goes somewhere else. all of your gangmates jump through and all of them end up scattered around in different locations. i think i can safely say that this is considered \"random flinging about\".oh, and ed's right. you don't \"travel fit\" an absolution."
"that fit was to get passed faction navies. the player camp i just bumbled into, even though it should have been easy to avoid.wait... you are calling the standard geddon fit awful?that isn't true. if the bm fix hadn't of included wtz, nobody worth listening to would have complained."
"that isn't how it works. during any given hour there is a 20% chance the gate is offline entirely, a 30% chance the gate takes you to the wrong destination and a 50% chance it will work fine. so i was right, you guys don't even fully understand what i'm suggesting. maybe ccp should bring back learning skills."
"didn't i just say this? nobody worth listening to complains about wtz.maybe you don't understand. if gates have a chance to redirect then a strategic objective like an ihub, pos, station, or sbu's have a chance of becoming completely shut off from eve entirely for a random period depending on if they reconnect. why does this seem like a good mechanic for you?the very fact you yourself stated we wouldnt know where the gate went to without activating it means we could be \"randomly flung about\" across eve and have to spend hours getting back. this is a bad mechanic."
"why have gates at all?i'm confident i do.not at all. just because you are taking one part of the op out of context, doesn't mean you are correct.because it promotes the use of transwarp... how much more pitifully obvious can this be? then don't use the stargates."
"ooooornow hear me out on this onewait for itwe can simply not use your hair brained \"feature\" much like your last five threads. you're the same guy that said bs are underpowered and have no role in pvp. this would be a neat concept if eve had been formed around it, but as it stands it wasn't and the amount of changes the game would have to undergo may as well just make a new game. so go push this to a developer that isn't ccp ^_^"
"considering what i've been reading of your posts, your opinions here are just about weightless.they are losing their role and i'm hardly the only person who thinks so.i would say the same about capitals before they were introduced. or pos... or mwds... or wtz... or concord... or sentry guns...see how that works? any change has widespread ramifications, not all of them good. but my idea doesn't significantly change the majority of eve's gameplay, just the methodology for interstellar travel."
"read what you type!go through stargate 1 and have 30% chance of getting thrown to a different destination - probably ending up 20 systems from where you want to be. go through again, the random throws of the dice gets you to within 2 systems of where you want to go and then chance takes over and sends you another 10 systems away.stupid idea!"
"that's why you don't use the stargates."
"you see his change is designed to discourage any and all use of stargates because he has determined them to be worthless and bad.ironic since his ideas are the ones that are bad."
"which part of the op idea is bad? and why?ccp has implemented my ideas in the past, and that was before there was a csm to push it.to be frank though, i don't expect constructuve posting from you, all i've seen you do is troll ah attacking posters and not the ideas. and almost everyone else calling the idea bad can only see the stargate gamble, which is a very small part of the entire idea.maybe i'm the one who can see how a malfunctioning gate would be fun."
"well this is certainly and interesting idea to say the least and i like the story line aspect of it. in the end i would have to say that the transwarp part is what really gets me. gate technology has been around in science fiction long before eve online took it and is theorized to be one of the only viable ways of future space travel.transwarp is a good idea in general but your implemtation of it is poor, your looking to much on inventing on a new technology, there is no precident in eve to date while jump drives on caps and black ops already had a place in the game...stargates. so i would say if you really want this to happen, stage it up in doses to see how the players react. ofcourse these changes will be made over several expansions.based on sleeper tech, capsuleers develope the tech to lock onto to distant stars and warp to them. also the research into wormholes has yielded interesting results.-add the capability for all ships to consume fuel for extended warps. if you have enough fuel in your cargo you get the option to warp to the next system by locking on to an adjacent star within range. while this may take a while, it is a precedent to what you aim to accomplish.-start adding fuel bays to larger ships to help accomidate the extra mass.-ships that manually warp into a system don't show up in local, since the stargate cannot log there entry into the system.-give interceptors a special mod to follow a ship into warp using the same warp bubble.-add a skill to increase interstellar warp speed up to 10x normal warp speed, this skill will only be implimented when you lock on to a distant star. it will be a x2 skill.-when you come out of interstellar warp you end up in a 15 km bubble around the star bm, just like a normal gate, and covops can warped cloaked.-travel between wh systems without a direct wh connection is possible allowing for the wh's to be mapped.-twenty-four new regions on the outside of 0.0 are introduced only accesable by interstellar warp, and players will be able to set up stargates that work like stations, with restrictions on travel, but will consume fuel just like jumpbridges. these will operate like normal stargates.-black ops and titans can now open up a static wormhole to a new ship, an intrepid class exploration ship specialized in interstellar travel and exploration. the creation of a wormhole expends massive amounts of power and fuel, and shuts down the ship that generates it for ten minutes, but the wormhole operated as normal. also ships entering thru a wormhole are not displayed in local. the class of wh generated depends on the amount of fuel consumed, black ops can only generate the smallest of wh's. obsiously the range of the wh will be limited to the jump range of the ship, and while bridging will be cheaper, wh will be static for 24 hours, or until collapsed due to mass.these are just suggestions to make you idea more viable.you did want a discussion and i think these changes will be more accepted. plus it'll expand the black ops ships capabilities and make them more viable as a ship to field. interstellar travel also should have just as intensive skill training as jump drives, so only specialized characters can utilize the abilities, this will make it so the gates don't become useless.just my 2 ccgerrick palivornp.s. gates should stay the same, you just need to expand the different ways you can travel to the next system. this will make pvp more dynamic and with the local optional feature you can effectively set up ambushes as they were intended to be. but you can't take away from the ease of gate travel, any alternative travel methods should take much longer.note: highsec local will always show you, due to concord constantly scanning systems.edit: made it easier to read"
"your idea sucks.run out of fuel and you get stuck in a labyrinth of gates. now if you are a solo player or casual player you are sol until you somehow stumble into a place to get fuel. in the mean time you are cannon fodder for every incompetent pvp'er since no one in their right mind would ever use a gate again except for the poor souls who run out of fuel and are now stuck flying a non-pvp fitted ship around enemy space. i say enemy specifically because you removed concord from the game with your stupid idea and now the population of eve is somewhere around 3000 living breathing players and 25000 bots. another words you killed eve but meh who cares right you can gate camp the sun now...yes, the sun is the new gate camp and even better is by your arbitrary rules you fly from system to system just like the gates, rather than straight line from any solar system in range, sling bubbles into the system are easier than ever to set up. now i am not fond of cloaker freaks but making them set at the sun uncloaked for 60 seconds pretty much kills the point of a cloaked ship. basically your entire idea is going to set up pirates to gate camp the living crap out of every system since concord is no longer around everything is null.those are just the two glaring disasters you create with your idea i could go on but good idea's never get implemented and horrible idea's like this have no chance so arguing further is pointless. you really thought that this one through didn't you!"
"oh now i'm all ears, what part of eve's game design are you responsible for? provide sauce as well captain troll."
"i love how he's gone to the \"my idea is great you are all wrong this idea is flawless lololololol\" argument.not supported"
"why change ecm? i think we can all agree that ecm is not fun, for both the user and the flyer. it's a mechanic which essentially stops you from playing the game and having fun. for ecm pilots, you often have to sacrifice doing much of everything (dps, support, mobility, tank) to be able to use ecm effectively. what this essentially boils down to is that either you make your opponents useless or you're useless. this results in very stale gameplay. i do not think ecm is overpowered, i think it is balanced, however, i feel like it creates stale gameplay for both sides. so whats good about ecm? ecm is currently one of the few counters to spider tanking and rr, it's also effective with low sp, easy to use, and has decent range, making it an effective and useful role for new players to the game.so what is this change all about, and how will it improve gameplay?i feel that by changing ecm to a resistance reducing mechanic that it will retain the positive aspects of ecm while removing the stale game-play. by creating a resistance reduce ewar, it will still be effective at breaking up remote repair chains by reducing the amount of effective hit points that can be repped by remote assistance, while retaining decent small gang use. so how would you implement this?basically, almost everything stays as it is now, but instead of on a successful application, the target is jammed, their resistances are reduced by a set amount.here are some ballpark figures i'd probably say are fair, if you like the ideas and the numbers below please don't remove your support because they're very rough and obviously ccp would balance them themselves.multispec (reduces all resistances by 10%) - 3 base strengthradar (reduces em resistance by 20%) - 6 base strengthmagnetometric (reduces thermal resistance by 20%) - 6 base strengthladar (reduces explosive resistance by 20%) - 6 base strengthgravametric (reduces kinetic resistance by 20%) - 6 base strength- the caldari specialised ewar ships will retain chance and optimal based bonuses, and possibly gain resistance amount bonuses too. they should also receive some more survivability and damage (more drones) to make up for the loss of completely deliberating ewar. eccm is still needed and useful on ships to prevent them losing their resistances. therefore would still remain paramount on logistics and rr battleships. this also would go some way to reducing docking games and scenarios where both sides out-tank each-other, and provide a more meaningful role for caldari ships in small gangs. this would also make eve less 'tanky' and make quick and fast ganks against blobs more possible. feedback would be appreciated!"
"clicked this expecting to see something that was complete drivel as most ecm related threads are. pleasantly surprised. although i think you would get massive backlash from the community about removing ecm's current mechanic i think the current mechanic is possibly one of the most overpowering forms of ewar and have not seen a good way to bring it into line resembling it's current form. this would be a breath of fresh air and also completely alter how ecm is used."
"sounds a bit random and unrelated to electronic countermeasures tbh, package should contain whats advertised on the box.prolly a better idea as a new form of ewar instead of replacing ecm.as for the resistance debuff idea itself, there is the obvious issue that it promotes uniform fleets, dont think thats exactly the thing the game needs these days.also doesnt really work well as a force multiplier for small gangs against larger gangs, no matter how you tweak your numbers it will always end up benefiting the large group more than the small group.now for some questions about your idea, how do you thing stacking should work with this?the modules would have to stack somehow, given the fact that anything but putting all your ewar mods on one target doesnt make sense."
"i think the reason he advocates this as replacement for ecm is because all other forms of ewar handicap a ship in specific ways, be it sig radius, scan res, scan range, tracking, or optimals but only ecm completely disables ship for a set period of time just by winning a random number generator. this would bring ecm more into line with other forms of ewar by making it handicap a certain aspect of the ship instead of nearly everything about the ship."
"i'm sorry but isn't that the whole point of pvp fits? kill or be killed?"
"it's a neat idea, with the only issue i really see being how to justify it from a fictional standpoint."
"i know exactly what his beef with the ecm mechanic is, i've been at the receiving end too many times not to.still i dont think it needs replacement, imo there is a decent set of counters available even for the solo player.besides, being bombed with the other ewar has pretty much the same devastating effect on your ship, it just feels better still shooting at the other guy even if your optimal range is 5 meters and you never score a hit."
"that's exactly the point. losing any control over combat at all and having to just sit there and watch a timer tick down isn't fun. eccm is also not even remotely powerful enough to counter ecm on a bonused ship. especially given the amount of eccm it requires to realistically counter one ecm module towards your race.edit: i do have a few concerns for the op. mainly: stacking penalties. things so you cant push a ship to zero resists or negative resists. without severe stacking penalties these would become even more common than current ecm."
"sitting there without cap and unable to hit anything with your guns isnt exactly fun either. depending on your setup its worse, but if you are lucky the not-fun is over faster when your active tank folds.being kited unable to lock past 10km with hostiles happily orbiting at 15km isnt fun.honestly, i cant imagine a situation where ewar actually works properly, and is fun for the victim.at least the counters to ecm are true counters, not standard equipment your ship needs to perform in the first place."
"all true, i really can't argue with any of that. i do agree that all of ewar needs an overhaul but does that mean ecm can't trend into this thread's idea?"
"whoa! this looks cool!any chance to throw in lower fitting and cap usage on eccm modules? for smaller ships./me rubs eyes... whoa! it is still there. i like it.edit: maybe beef up ecm ships hit points/tank a bit so they are not loltank too."
"my main concern is that what you're effectively doing is turning ecm into an active midslot damage mod (which wouldn't stack against the existing damage mods) and so its main use would be throwing one or two into the utility mids on something like an abaddon or tempest, rather than a dedicated caldari ecm ship.in fact, this proposal has a lot in common with the existing target painter (countering the resist buffer rather than the sig buffer), and we all know how popular the dedicated target painting e-war ships are, right?"
"i like the idea of changing ecm, but a resist debuff seems more inline with another type of module. perhaps change the autotargeters to molecular dissonance arrays that do the same thing as proposed here.for ecm, id say that having it randomly offline a module after it gets a successful jam would be more inline with what ecm is. that way you could lose the use of a weapon or a plate... or even an mwd for the fights duration."
"very good idea +1"
"what would cause lag?"
"yeah wrecks look lame.but i dont really care about shiny grafics, i would like get more game content, not nice grafics, so i basically like to support other more importants features./not supported"
"i am very much against this proposal. i find the autopilot security avoidance system to be very easy to use and effective. i would be in favor of adding more options to it."
"you realise the safest route button is not the same as the slide thingie? because while i never tested it myself, i indeed wouldnt be surprised if it doesnt actually do anything. at least not anything useful."
"i propose that while a wreck is being tractor beamed the ownership of said wreck becomes that of the (gang/fleet/corp/individual) using the module.a popular trend at least that my corporation has noticed is while salvaging our missions with a noctis, ninja salvagers will move in close to the noctis and wait for it to tractor beam wrecks close and proceed to salvage these wrecks. while i do not particularly care for ninja salvagers, i do understand that nothing can be done to them since it has been previously determined that wrecks floating in space belong to no one, thus making the activity of \"ninja salvaging\" completely legal. however, while a wreck is being tractor beamed ownership should become that of the individual using the module and any attempt made by another individual outside the allowed group(gang/fleet/corp) to salvage this wreck becomes an illegal action, giving the tractor beam user full right to engage the offender.while the goal of this proposal is not to give people the ability to outright destroy ninjas, it does make it so that the job of the ninja does not become a complete cakewalk where everything is brought right to them.in summary:a tractored wreck falls under the ownership of the person using the moduleownership only lasts while the tractor beam is onmakes it to illegal to salvage a tractored wreck"
"your noctis can salvage faster than the ninja salvager. use t2 salvagers, use salvage tackle rigs, train up the ore industrial skill. salvage the large wrecks first as a priority. run missions in less crowded systems. these are simple things you can do to beat the ninja salvagers.eve is a pvp game, right down to the scavenging on the battlefield."
"this is where the salvager cycle time bonus of the noctis kicks in. all other things being equal, your salvagers will finish cycling before theirs, so you get the stuff.it won't work every time and you'll have to adjust your methods and only tractor 1 or 2 wrecks at a time, but it helps.edit- if it-s a dedicated salvage alt use a ppz-1 implant to give you even more leeway"
"while i do understand that the noctis should out salvage anything a ninja would use the fact is it doesn't 100% of the time. i don't care as much if the ninja is buzzing around salvaging wrecks, what bothers me is how some will sit right next to your ship or even between your ship and a wreck and salvage as it goes by. the purpose of creating ownership of a wreck in a tractor beam is to prevent those who would use the noctis' ability against the original salvager. having ownership would allow the tractor beam user to prioritize large wrecks and salvage those with little worry while still allowing a ninja salvager the chance to salvage the other wrecks in the area."
"the reason we pay for this game and wait is mostly to get skillpoints that will allow us to get new stuff. taking away skillpoints if you forget to upgrade your clone is silly to me, it's like a tax collector taking away stuff you paid for; i paid and waited for it, let me keep it. i suggest ccp take away the clone upgrade feature and replace it with implants insurance.the way it will work will be similar to clone upgrades but instead you'll pay for the number of times you can keep your implants after being podded.example: keep implants alpha (1 time) - 5 millions keep implants beta (2 times) - 15 millions keep implants omega (3 times) - 35 millions and so onthose with cheap implants will most likely get the deal once or twice before they change implants again, because the total fee will get higher than the value of their implants. those with the most expensive implants could have many more lives with implants, a limit will have to be determined, maybe 10 times and a very expensive fee attached to it.this idea will enable the pve players to get a bit more into lowsec and finaly try pvp, this system acts like a safety net, but you'll still lose your ships and a chunk of millions for the implants insurance.unfortunately, this system will also deliver a hit on the implant market, mostly the expensive ones, the demand will decrease a little bit and to counter that i suggest all items in the lp store can be sold on the market. players will then divert their lp isk making into a new array of items that could be sold just as fast on the current market. let's face it, the contracts shouldn't be used as a market for faction items, only as a bid market for the rarest items."
"not supported. you want less risk in your pvp go back to whatever elf filled fantasy game you came from."
"also this is a cross post from features forum"
"my simple proposal is that keep all the projectile turrets basically the same, only difference...make it so they can only do explosive and kinetic damage!!!! seriously the fact that these guns do basically every single damage type in the game, use no cap,have the 2nd best range with short range guns, and have the best tracking. this would all simply be balanced if the \"all damage types\" were left to missile based weapons and projectile turrets did only explosive and kinetic damage. i'm open to other ideas but i seriously think that would be the best way to change them without a ko nerf lol."
"maybe...i did always wonder how they managed to make an em bullet."
"they do need a tweak from as they are now, 3 of my favourite amarr ships are currently fit with t2 auto's, just because they're so much better unbonused than my lasers are. personally i think they should be made to fire 25% faster than they do currently but have the damage they do lowered to keep their dps the same. either that or a small amount of cap used to fire (roughly 50% of the cap that blasters use)."
"you pack the end of it with a pulse laser that converts the kinetic energy of impact to a megawatt laser pulse?that's just one idea. no idea if it's even feasible, but there you are.that aside, i agree with the maybe. i'm not sure that wouldn't overbalance something else too far."
"projectiles essentially function as a gun based alternative to missiles when it comes to damage type selection .. which is fine.what makes them annoyingly effective (the polite way of saying op) is that they do not share the same drawbacks as missiles .. they have immense tracking, high dps and instant damage application.before the optimal  fall-off shows up and spews their garbage: te's make fall-off so great that the \"standard\" autoboat experiences very little damage reduction at normal engagement ranges and ships not relying on te's are so much faster than their adversaries that getting into optimal range is trivial at best.- small tactical nuclear warhead designed to convert major part of radiation into electro-magnetic energy.- piezo electric conversion of kinetic to electrical energy.lots of ways, but besides the point i think in short: not supported. damage types for projectiles are fine as is, just take a look at ship bonuses and gun characteristics to give them some sort of noticeable drawback."
"so you see nothing unbalanced about a ship that can change its turret damage for any ship it encounters, missiles are balanced with omni damage simply because there are massive damage changing factors added onto them. with turrets if the turret can hit them it'll do full damage, no matter what unless it cannot track them lol. besides it would balance them against t2 amarr ships since lasers are stuck doing em and thermal damage which the t2 minmitar are extremely resiliant against. the only difference is that t2 mitar have the option of changing their damage to the t2 amarrs worst resist lol."
"missiles have explosion velocity and radius while guns have tracking and signature resolution, two sides of the same coin.i already mentioned that, the problem arises from the lack of the drawbacks missiles have such as delayed damage and lower dps.as for the amarr thing, the best counter to amarr is amarr. conflagration, neuts and tds represent the best of the best when it comes to killing t2 amarr .. go figure t2 matari resists are focused in em which eliminates scorch more or less, same as barrage is useless against t2 amarr .. lasers have sufficient damage surplus to punch through t2 matari resists using mf/conflag (in theory)."
"it's important to remember that in most combat situation, ac's do 30-50% less damage than their optimal, because they operate in falloff range. ability to choose damage type was given to compensate for reduced real damage.also, comparing performance of ac with pulse laser ships, seems pretty fair as the pulses have strong advantages in range and hit power.only when you start comparing acs to blasters you'll notice acs are better. and when you compare blasters to pulse, pulse is better. so what it really comes down to is that blasters are not on par with acs, so acs look better."
"um. what? this must have come out wrong - because that's not even close to being true the way it's written."
"double webs, a neut and a scram, you'll be hitting them for full damage, where as a missile's explosion damage will be pretty much permantly reduced even if ur standing still if your in a ship with a small enough signature radius. if your standing still vs turrets they hit ya for full damage with damage not being reduced whatsoever"
"all turrets are like that however, the only difference being that projectiles do every single damage type in the game. problem is that theres so many people using ac's these days that nobody wants them changed at all lol."
"you must not pvp much, have you ever been attacked by something with like 90% em resist and then they switch to phased plasma which is basically the absolute weakest resist possible on the t2 amarr lol"
"when you think about it from a realistic standpoint though a lot of thing's about them don't make sense. projectile turrets should have low tracking since the are fired by an explosion of propellant, so they will probably go around 1400m/s. railgun rounds like hybrids would go faster as they are fired via em pulse(?) and currently achieve speeds of 3,500 m/s but are still being perfected. lasers would logically have the best tracking as they go the speed of light.projectile ammo would also be logically larger than hybrid charges since they have to include an amount of propellant in the casing.i think they've been flavour of the month for too long now is all."
"i think being able to choose your type of damage is both useful and strategic. it's good to know your opponent's weakness, sometimes that means whatever hits him the hardest.i don't understand how anyone can stand to use energy or hybrid turrets, since you can't choose your damage type. even though they deal two types, you always deal both and can't choose one or the other very well. i think it would be better if there were full-thermal and full-em frequency crystals, along with incendiary and kinetic hybrid charges."
"i think you'll find that a lot of the minmatar specced pilots recognize the problems with their chosen weapons .. but you are not asking for a \"change\", but rather a neutering followed by cauterization - without anaesthesia.balance discussions are not like haggling, you get no where fast by going to the extreme right off the bat. ease into it and do your utmost to describe the problem and answers will change from pure flame to \"yes, but .. \" at which point proper debate can start.i fly mainly amarr in pvp and have some experience (should get hit 3k kills sometime in february).the beauty of t2 resists is that all races have a hole, plug it with a membrane or hardener and it is gone for good. if thermal is such a problem for you when using amarr t2 then buy up the dirt cheap (cheap last i checked) centii thermal platings, no cpu and a very effective plug.must say i don't bother attacking t2 matari hulls in laser boats, but i didn't do that before projectile boost either so no change for me .. my biggest problem against them has always been the omni-present neuts, damn slaves and their capless guns!!!"
"so... making projectiles limited to two damage types like blasters and lasers == making them useless... wait what?also you lose points for posting on an alt: \"hirana yoshida's combat record - ranked #120,122\""
"extreme right off the bat? you mean like give them 2 damage types like every other race? also you havent given me examples of how the guns and ammunition are already balanced, you just said that my idea would make them ****, which is not true either. a big \"extreme\" would be if they lost their tracking, range, and had to use cap. im pretty sure that projectile weapon users would hate that option a hell of alot more. so with actual statistics, please show me how the autocannons are not unbalanced compared to the other guns."
"wanted to make a suggestion about salvageable wrecks, i know if u flip a can of another players you become hostel to that player. so why is it we can do that but salvaging wrecks is left as a non hostel act? lots of industry builders rely on there salvage to make there money but when u get a griefer come in a start salvaging your hard earned wrecks they cant shoot them? so i propose that salvaging wrecks should be deemed a hostel act in game. this way if a player doesn't want there wrecks they can right click and abandon them, and the indy people and make there isk with out worry of loosing there materials.fly safe friends"
"in before ninja salvager whine and in before grammar ****s.if you had searched before, you'd have seen this has been brought up a million times."
"you can utilize a lot of tools to 'save' the wrecks from being ninja salvaged. like marauders or the noctis. all it takes is some thinking. a lot of people whine about ninja salvagers, which is a valid profession, like market/contract scammers, corp thieves or suicide gankers. these are fully intended and deemed valid by ccp.tl;dr: htfu"
"i've seen the arguments against wreck flagging, and none of them are viable.\"it's just garbage\" is a load of crap; it's often worth more than the drops and bounty combined.\"it's not meant to belong to the mission runner\" is pretty weak when you consider that the noctis is based entirely around the principle that wrecks are owned (which is why you get tractor beam bonuses instead of salvager range bonuses).\"it requires specialized equipment\"? i'm sorry, but a few hours of skill training for a 20k module is not \"specialized equipment\".\"it would destroy salvaging\" is a viable complaint with its own solutions, such as letting abandoned mission sites be probable (with regular probes, even).\"htfu mission runner\" isn't an argument, and it's also hypocritical given that a ninja salvager does about 2% of the work that a mission runner does and yet claims 50% of the rewards (which the aforementioned mission runner worked to produce.) if anybody needs to harden the **** up, it's the salvagers.\"it wouldn't stop the ninjas\" is partially true and also irrelevant.supported, but you won't get many other people supporting it. you're even less likely to get people telling you why they don't support it. you're even less likely to get people responding to the counterarguments i just listed.remember kids, eve is a world of harsh consequences.unless you want to salvage the wrecks of others, in which case concord will protect you.and people call me a carebear."
"not really true, i often salvage an entire l4 mission getting only a few hundred thousand isk's worth of items. afaik it's based largely on luck / chance.no the noctis is based on the hope that mission runners abandon wrecks (which, even if they don't salvage, rarely happens). it's not designed for mission runners, but normal salvagers. (it's hard to ninja in a battle cruiser).while i don't know a huge amount about the differences between what can and can't be salvaged with t1 salvagers compared to t2, but this is based entirely on what site / missions are being done.i agree about abandoned sites should come up with at least combat probes. but not if ninja salvaging is outlawed.probing and having the patience to ninja is quite a lot of work. considering most people who ***** about this are sitting in a cnr running level 4's semi-afk, i don't see your argument that the missioner is \"doing all the hard work\". clicking a few buttons and eating a cheese sandwich is not work. (if you think running level 4's is hard then you're doing it wrong).no it wouldn't. it would just mean more missioners rage attack the ninja's, who promptly exit to get int their pvp set up ship and blow the missioner up without concord doing anything.happy birthday.next time, bring an alt.you're a carebear.edit: why i'm not supporting this thread.also, just to say that i've been on both sides of the coin and i still don't agree. salvaging is tedious at best, and the ninja element is the only real \"excitement\" that can be had from it. making wrecks an aggressive act (like can flipping / loot stealing) is pointless and making it a concordable act will kill a massive amount of salvaging because very few individuals abandon wrecks (including pvp wrecks).so no."
"when something is brought up a million times, consider that it might have merit."
"the idea has been shot down just as often, so the number of times this has been discussed is pretty much irrelevant. i do like the suggestion just because the last thing it does is help the missionrunning industrial and i would enjoy the tears of people losing their priceless missionrunning ships in addition to their salvage."
"when it's been brought up a million times before consider that the devs probably would have changed it by now like they did for jet cans.if they thought it was a good idea. they fact that they have not, and have, in fact, stated repeatedly that it works as they intended it to work all along, seem to indicate that no matter how much merit you happen to think the idea has, they who control the code that runs the universe do not agree.and in the end, that is what matters."
"iu, theres no way for a wreck to be flagged. cans have a transmitter, so it would be known who it belongs to. wrecks are just piles of junk. no way to track who the junk belongs to."
"i'll tell that to the guys down at the municipal council. they process a thousand claims a week from people caught running red lights who are claiming, \"i didn't hurt anyone, so please let me off this time.\" and then there's my nephew who insists on having dessert before dinner. should i feed him his ice cream and custard instead of meat and vegetables?when something is brought up a million times, it just means that something has been brought up a million times. only when you can present a cogent argument about ninja npc-killers or ninja salvagers ruining the game will anyone take you seriously.interestingly enough, ninja salvagers love the fact that looting other people's wrecks makes them blinky red. they exploit this to get kill rights on the mission runner."
"edit: partly inspired by obsidian's thread.it's probably an issue of little importance, but i remember before premium when the jump sound was so much more awesome, to where it sounded like a rocket was blasting off. now it sounds like a faint trickle of noise compared to what it sounded like before premium. this might be an elementary way to put it but for me, it always sounded like the jump sound now sounds likewwwwwwssssshhhhh~~~~~~compared to before where it sounded likebbbbbbbbbrrrrrrrrr and then a big bbbbbrrrr~~~i can't really describe it any other way, but the jump sound was a lot more awesome back before premium in my opinion. i'm not sure if it conflicted with the new premium content like aura did, but if it's possible i'd love to see the old jump sound back. same with the warp sound. before, it sounded like a spacecraft really starting its warp drive, and the same for when it ended warp. now it doesn't sound like anything (in my opinion). pardon me for my ignorance if they did conflict with premium content for some reason and had to be taken out."
"whiiiiiiiir, bing!i miss that, much more satisfying than the boring humming and wind noises we have now. also, decloak sound."
"most of the old sounds were better in my opinion."
"yes bump we def need the old sounds back"
"i want my ear-bleeding warp sound back please, ccp? :)i agree that the bbrrrrrrrrrrrrtt... zhou jump noise was much more interesting.edit: but you can leave the invulnerability field sound just the way it is. i don't want the omnipresent invulnerability field sound drowning out every other noise in the game.(edit: and i want \"preview your post\" to preserve the \"support the post\" setting)"
"specifically, i would like to see contracts improved to include the ease of right clicking on the item that is not available on the common market and add a \"view contracts\" and \"veiw contracts in all regions\" option. i believe this would make life easier for seasoned and new players alike."
"ccp has added a new contract system to the test server which is a lot better than the current, check it out when it comes back up."
"the csm is designed to represent the players, not govern the players."
"electoral colleges are awesome for the simple reason that you only have to bribe or blackmail a few dozen people instead of the entire population.i fully support this attempt at pvp on the electoral scale :)"
"you want democracy and yet you advocate electoral college.just goes to show how foolish and jaded you are.please... go away before you embarrass yourself."
"bro then immutagay wuld be prez. hellz no nobody lyks him."
"nope. thanks but no thanks to another layer of 'meta gaming'.this popularity contest works or, as i look at it \"in real life\"...q: \"so who did you vote for mr. sheeple\"a: <insert candidate name>q: \"why?\"a: \"i like their smile!\"q: \"what?!?! not economics? position on war? ....?!?!?\"the one that decides on the smile at least sees it every time their candidate shows up. the one who votes based upon \"issues\" -- they are always ticked off at the \"trade-offs\" and \"failed promises\" that yield half-assed/lame solutions.so, from where i sit -- the one voter will see something worthwhile (a smile they like) vs the other \"smarter\" voters who are always disappointed at never getting what they were promised.there is no reason to spread your misery with elections to everyone. let some enjoy the smiles and the rest of us can mutter about \"the issues\".ps: \"popularity contests\" work too. there are just as many good as bad laws passed by \"the majority\" in the us as we get from the crappy \"geniuses\" put in office via the electoral college... check local voter initiative stats some time for how that works out and compare to the \"wtf\" stupidities from the us federal government...again, thanks but no thanks."
"not really cause the major traders would just go somewhere else and everyone would follow. stopping trail account using jita local would be nice to ease the local spam of \"players leaving so send me isk and i will laugh my ass off and buy a pew pew ship.\" but a way for people that dont like near jita to get stuff from their without having to jump inside and pick up their stuff adding to the massive numbers would be nice. the other day it took me 1h to move 20 items from the hanger to my cargo hold because of lag. just anything to ease it would be welcomed."
"either buy from the order while you're in citadel (not jita proper), or post a remote buy order. then create a courier contract to have the stuff you bought shipped to your desired location."
"+1 :)such as perimeter. and then urlen.it's the network effect. people start using the one market because everyone else is using that one market. people will also use the one market that is consistently 10% more expensive rather than hauling their junk fo"
"1) don't go to jita if you can't deal with it.2) low sec systems between the hubs would cause, that the other hubs would get a part of the cake and not everyone and their dog would go to jita. as travelling the universe took longer (no wtz) the other hubs had been way more utilised..at least the dodi/jita route would need to be nerfed. it's war between gallente/caldari..3) jita local, minimise it.also, you're throwing idea after idea into the ring here.. wrong forum for that afaic(oncerned)."
"mizzles just look at em nerf dat wit a nerf bat"
"did this meeting even occur :s"
"why let it die?she wanted to remove pvp from eve.hahahahaha bye eva and please don't come back."
"no, seriously. she was insane. now she's gone. let it go."
"red team says: we will bring 10 frigsblue team says: yeah well we will bring 20 frigsred team says: we will bring 50 cruisersblue team says: yeah well we will bring in 100 cruisersred team says: we will bring in 100 battlecruisersblue team says: yeah well we will bring in 150 battlecruisersred team says: we will bring in 200 battleshipsblue team says: yeah well we will bring in 250 battleshipsred team says: we will bring in 100 carriers (because dreads suck)blue team says: yeah well we will bring in 250 carriers (because dreads suck)red team says: we will bring in 100 supercapsblue team says: yeah well we will bring in 250 sup.................................. aww wtf black screen!!!red team makes thread: ccp fix lagblue team makes thread: ccp fix lagred team makes thread: ccp fix lagblue team makes thread: ccp fix lagred team makes thread: ccp fix lagblue team makes thread: ccp fix lagred team makes thread: ccp fix lagblue team makes thread: ccp fix lagred team makes thread: ccp fix lagblue team makes thread: ccp fix lagred team makes thread: ccp fix lagblue team makes thread: ccp fix lagred team makes thread: ccp fix lagblue team makes thread: ccp fix lagas for this threadhalf the people say they want fleet warfare where size doesnt control the outcomethe other half say they prefer size to control the outcome of a battle and prefer lag (dont play with fire if you dont want to get burnt).i guess we know why 0.0 is dead or full of botters, there isnt much a person can do without ******ed amounts of numbers / lag."
"i was invited to attend a few of the meetings of the latest csm summit, you can read my impressions of what went down at the following links:csm summit - december 2010 - prologuecsm summit - december 2010 - part 1more will be added as they are published"
"sooo, when we expect some full report now?"
"we will get it out as fast as humanly possibly. we are currently editing up drafts of the various meetings and circulating them for comments and correction."
"i get that 2011 is well next week but next year or so sounds like \"well either 2011 or 2012 or maybe 2013\".the features on incursion sound like anti botting features anyway, couldnt you just work on this and make it more workable.for example, constellation effects and reducing bounty, i have noticed on sisi that these constellations have sansha camping gates but i am yet to see if belts are camped too, perhaps you can make it in such a way that: -a. belts are camped toob. make the new sansha race hard enough to not be solo'd (the rogue ones camping stuff)c. make incursions happen is heavy npc territory (including macro mining)i hope these are changes that will happen anyway as it will encourage both pve and pvp but one of the changes i want is [c], the reason for this is, it is guaranteed any decent bot will move systems if an incursion is imminent.second thing i have noticed is a change to 'npc' rats in general as a new feature, there isnt much talked about this but i think it is time rats jammed players.i for one agree there is too much being sold and not enough being bought, there needs to be more ways to lose stuff which is why im glad incursion is coming out but i am worried those dungeons will turn into wow dungeons where in eve people will just use mass numbers to achieve stuff."
"did this meeting even occur :s"
"sunday was 3 days ago... come on, give us something!ok, this was a crosspost, i found it now:"
"i think all black ops should use the same fuel aswell, not different types for each race"
"ha, then who would have a computer capable of putting out those awesome graphics?"
"funny how every comment from someone in the nc power block is welcomed with open arms but if your not part of the nc power block, your comments are meet with extreme tear filled bitter rage.take off the political goggles ehh?just saying."
"skimming the thread i see a number of non nc powerbloc posters supporting this and only 3 non nc not supporting it. also the thread has been a lot more of our powerbloc than anyone else because ive been spattering this all over our various forums, jabbers, voice comms, etc to get as much input as possible. the thread's like 2 days old. i am sure it will spread. so far the only people with problems with it haven't really been able to articulate what about it they think is bad. with the exception of marlona who did a pretty good job and voiced actual concerns i have thought over.edit: thanks for pnqy btw london."
"this sounds right to me. the supercarrier is too powerful against sub-caps, mostly cause of fighters, regular drones, and heavy neuts.regular carriers also have most of that power against sub caps, but least regular carriers can be tackled and killed by medium gang of sub caps."
"really? because it looks like you did a good job of scaring her out of the thread on her last idea/comment. it was a bit long and i didn't follow what she was on about but never the less, my point still stands.just try and be a bit more neutral politically when it comes to ah, can you do that?"
"his last point was awful. but at least he tried to actually point out where he thought the flaws in the concept was. unlike you ^_^that's exactly what i came to as well. i think making them jammable would also help but i wouldnt like to see their ewar immunity completely removed. things such as scramblers and webs should still not work on them."
"i appreciate the white knight thing here, but i don't need someone to defend me. especially a dirty alt. i said what i thought and that was that. i am still watching the thread, so i'm hardly 'scared' away from it.my intent on that idea was not to punish the active players. the idea was to scale back the amount of super capitals showing up, that actually does scale up and down. i will admit that what goes on in my head and when i talk about it on comms, it sounds better when i start talking about all the different scenerios it would apply to and how it would interact heavily with strategy and the political landscape. in a good way, i assure you.it is that whole brain to keyboard thing, a lot is lost in translation. i am not a fan of this idea. not to disagree just to disagree, but this statement just shows how over powered ecm is. when by allowing them to not be ew immune just so you can jam them. now if something was done to make ecm a different type of ew completely, like is some other guys thread on here about a resist debuff, it would be different. what sucks is this could be a good option if the ew wasn't so incredibly unbalanced across the board.time for caldari to have two different types of ew like the other races instead of one all powerful one. meh, who knows, but that is another topic."
"drink bleach."
"cope with life."
"the op stated in post 32 of this thread, we know a supercarrier nerf is incoming. that's been confirmed beyond a shadow of a doubt. we just don't know what it contains yet. if this is the single source of his information, then its all the proof needed to show hes spewing rubbish designed to misinform. much as the rest of his posts insisting drastic nerfs need to be applied to supercarriers.a large nerf of supercarriers benefits goons and any other blob happy group with a large number of newer players in their membership. it isnt good for eve. its good for the ops group and similar groups.the proposed nerfs would virtually mean that only large corporations or alliances could field supercarriers without unrealistic risk to a heavy investment. large corporations have many people on simultaneously and can afford the increased demand on logistics the proposed nerf would require. any carrier, even supercarriers, require support to be used without high risk of getting killed quickly. the proposed nerf would raise the required support to such a level that smaller corporations/alliances would seldom be able to have enough personnel on at one time to field support for a supercarrier and thats if they could do it at all. thus any but the largest of corporation/alliances would be at a severe disadvantage.this proposed nerf would create an elitist environment where numbers would say whether a corp can have access to supercarriers, not skills trained, not resources to build, not knowledge of eve, but simply numbers.these are supercarriers, formerly known as motherships. theyre expensive as all get out, theyre huge and theyre supposed to be hard to kill. enough with the nerfs to make the blobs life easier. lets leave people with something to aspire to other than to join one of the enormo alliances and be a good little follower.-windjammer"
"why would that be? even a medium sized corp would be fine using them in their intended role as anti-capital platform, its not like they'd suddenly be made out of paper and could be tackled by a t1 frigate.they would have to bring a minimal support fleet with them though, i dont see how it is too much to ask to bring like 2 additional regular carriers plus say 15 battleships as support.if the entity in question does not have the option to field about 20 ships, then they shouldnt be fielding supercapitals."
"bs, unless you mean by support of supercarriers more supercarriers...this is the only way you got 0.0 a bit healthy again. the current situation forces every powerblock member to either rmt or bot to be able to keep up with the arms race. it also removes any kind of player skill and brings us back to bigger is better, and more of the bigger is especially better. i thought the idea behind eve was that every ship has their role, and bigger is not automatically better. if you cannot field a support fleet with a few supercaps you shouldnt be fielding a few supercaps. really are you saying a small-medium corp should be able to use supercaps that walk over the enemy small-medium corps subcap fleet without any support?tbh the idea of making scs back into motherships (as in make them carry loads of subcaps + clone bay so during a fight people can reship, something like a mobile station) is interesting, but the main issue i see is that it will never leave pos shields. and if you force it to be outside pos shields to operate it will never leave hugging the pos shields.also @ goonies and other nc here. a previous poster pretty much said that everyone in favor is an nc member. since that apparently makes me an nc member, do you guys have some kind of nc wide reimbursement scheme that i am then eligeble for?"
"there is no solution to my mind, they were added and implemented badly, were nerfed then buffed and nerfed again.sov is fkd, super caps are fkd, this proposal is fkd.no, because i'm fking sick of every one and his wife crying nerf, and because your goons i suspect an underlying reason for the change based on selfish reasons not the good of the game as your offensive in fountain and moves into delve against it cap systems suggests.just calling it how i see it.for me remove all super caps from the game and make titans gigantic mobile space stations hard to kill with limited offensive capability, as for sov i honestly can't see a good solution that would work."
"its more funny how so many of the comments actively opposing the various proposals come from no-name alt and npc corpers making ham-fisted innuendo about the ulterior motives of the evil t1 goonie nerfsploiters.i mean, if this was so clearly a plot to get ccp to nerf the people we fight against, i'm sure the members of those entities would be falling all over themselves to jump into this thread and call us out on it, but 5 pages in for some reason it seems they don't possess the x-ray vision required to spot our machiavellian espionage.(dont worry, i'm sure they'll be along any minute now)"
"true........suported"
"dps are not the only problem of hybrids. i still think that blasters and railguns could use much more tracking and a slight increase in dps and blasters range."
"what blasters need is a 100% increase in damage and tracking yes i mean it either that or make blaster boats the fastest ships in eve i.e. faster then minmatar shipseven better would be to bring gallente on the same speed and agility level as minmatar and boost their weapons by 50% damage and tracking i want to see that the first thing a pilot does when facing a blaster ship is burning away in fear of getting shred before they manage to do anything that is what blaster boats should be imho no weapon type should be able to out damage them close range and no ship should be able to run away from one for too long"
"i'm not sure why this hasn't been done already. it doesnt seem to be the kind of thing that would cause too much, if any, problems in terms of server resources and thats the only good reason i can think of for not doing this.it shouldnt even require too much in the way of design work for ccp. of course, it would mean theyd have to fix something that exists rather than bring in new content, but surely they can do it in this case.-windjammer"
"an idea i had was sub-targets on asteroids. in essence as you mine, different parts of the asteroid become fractured and more accessible, while other areas become less stable and likely will cause loss of yield. so every few seconds (anywhere from 10 seconds to a minute) a \"hot spot\" pops up on the asteroid and you have a short time to target it. this would focus your mining laser(s) to the best spot to mine and give a bonus to your yield. if you continually miss the \"hot spots\" your careless mining will cause damage to the ore and lower the overall value of that asteroid.there could be a new skill \"uber targeted mining operations\" 10% increase to the bonus yield per rank. level 4 skill. it could also be tied into the survey scanning module. so that instead of random spots popping up every time you scan the asteroid would also be checked for the best spot to mine. though that might complicate things.edit - this could be made automatic for mining drones. so that they target what you target and benefit from the bonus. if you don't do anything, then just like your lasers, the mining drones would suffer from loss of yield."
"i like the ideas being thrown out in this thread. i think that making the act of mining more engaging and complicated would not only weed out the 'moderates' and detestable afk miners, but would make the truly dedicated miner even happier with their chosen profession. as a side-bonus, it could make today's mining bots obsolete, requiring a complete reprogramming of them. there would, of course, be a short-term market knee-jerk reaction, but things would quickly stabilize, and perhaps mining could even become more profitable due to the moderates and afk'ers being gone.i started out as a miner, but due to the boredom, i now have a hulk and a mackinaw collecting dust in hangers somewhere while my orca has become a loot transport. i now run l4's to raise funds for pew-pew with my alts and pos activity . it would be nice to go back to my roots for a change in pace when i felt like it, without feeling the urge to pluck out my eyes after half an hour, just to break up the monotony. big support for the idea of a major mining overhaul."
"still no news from ccp.this is very disappointing."
"supported."
"supported."
"we can denied it , on the paper and on the practice, hybrid weapons fail hard on all aspects, less in everydamnthink"
"@op: i've been thinking about this, and looking at blasters more. i have come to the conclusion that i am in full support of your idea. also, it would be fine for blasters to have the fastest tracking because of their missile-like damage system. it would "
"very interesting idea op. had thoughts along similar lines myself a while back but you convey the idea a lot more eloquently than i ever could. bestowing my thumb upon this thread."
"1. you can already archive it now, it is not common(and hulls used for it go around the same pricetag). also you are a hypocrite. 2. we got a lot of bored ex gallente pilots around.3. fed navy webs.1. bull****, and anybody that camped more than one time knows it. most targets will spawn in 20-25km range and you need somebody that point it first + time to get in range(a plated rax is not good at it, a untanked one will get smoked all the time).2. if it gets in range(with your maxed skilled t3 in gang all the time, everywhere)...1. they did it for hics, it is not this hard to type in some stats in the db.2. web range is the bonus, not web strength. actually i would welcome stronger webs on the huggin and rapier again.3. in other words they are kind of useless given her pricetag and her field of use.than you are simply trolling."
"1. nonsense, ad hominem as icing on the cake though, nice2. yea, i hear people call for bored gallente pilots all the time. \"hey guys, we dont need a lach for this gatecamp, but if you are terribly bored...\" 3. perfect reason for not handing out web strength bonuses1. if it moves 5 km towards gate doesnt matter at all as long as it comes to a dead stop before jumping.also, a completely unfit cruiser can be tanked perfectly fine by a logi, a bloody keres does just fine.2. lol, you obviously have no clue how frikkin popular the loki is as booster.1. good to know you are an expert database programmer2. lol, you might wanna check the racial bonus for web strength on those hulls again. oh look, its minmatar.3. what?ah right. i take it you admit that you cannot come up with an atleast somewhat common scenario then?"
"thx for all your trolling efforts."
"fyp.to reiterate some more realistic options:- give thorax the pg it is missing- give brutix missing grid, remove repper bonus for falloff bonus- give deimos missing grid- give astarte missing grid, maybe remove repper bonus for tracking bonus"
"fyp.this ships would be still terrible at close range."
"gallente spec pilot only here.hybrids need more love.possible fixes.1. better tracking (especially blasters)2. faster reloads. i like the sound of it but not sure if that's a fix tbh.3. have nearly all thermal damage and nearly all kinetic damage types and a mix in between for different types for all ranges."
"way to go einstein."
"the only way i could support bringing back t2 bpos for the masses is if we already had t3 modules and ships. since as technology progresses, older technology is easier and cheaper to make."
"/supported"
"buff invention. that would be all."
"anyone notice that most of the supporters are no-corp, no alliance alt posters??? makes me want to go... hhmmmmthe numbers do not support your logic.. sorry.. try again in 6 months like you always do.........not supported.."
"i like the concept for quicker and less cluttered drone control. and if we also keep the current system there as well, anything this new ui doesn't cover can still be done."
"ya rly.eve izsrsbiznes"
"the fact that frigate can't hit a battleship at 50km has nothing to do with the relative sizes of the ships.distance != ship size. let's try and keep our discussions relevant to topic, shall we?"
"i think you should actually play the game and learn how mechanics work before you propose changes to them."
"they could just make a rookie ship claim option somewhere in the station interface, so if you want one you ask for one."
"thanks for the thumbs guys, i really think that this is a nice, easy, uncontroversial improvement. i'll update the op with your thoughts, klyeme and reaver."
"yes this is an excellent idea, end the relentless spawn of rookie ships"
"ccp has been doing projects far more massive than suggestions like these on the forum. i'm sure they'd be kind to incorporate thing like this in a future patch."
"wrecks should also contain loot/salvage in correct proportions.you should find electronics equipment in the top part of a scorpion hull, for instance, or juicy capacitor salvage in the forward sections of a megathron (i assume those big circular cyclotron lights on the inside of the forward bow are some kind of energy storage anyway)this would take a great deal of work from the art department but they've already done it a number of times for missions."
"yeah. ship deaths are kind of underwhelming at the moment."
"the issue is not wether or not ccp wants to make things look good it is wether or not they will lose money as clients on legacy computers lose the ability to play the game. which is complete crap because if you can affoard a eve subscription you can affoard a decent pc. but yeah /signed"
"would really love that but of curse a button to turn it off is a must for bigger battles etc"
"yeah we're clearly out of it atm... due to repeated nerfs."
"it's called flying a drake... or ewar ships.ever hear of them?i hear they do wonders for any good pvp fleet.you should try it sometime."
"wow 3 ships... two which are t2, can't kill anything and are support ships... gtfo."
"drake, all ewar, raven, kestrel, merlin, hookbill, caracal, moa, t3 .. yeah, caldari is starving for good pvp ships for sure. the fact that you can't make other ships than the drake work is your failing not the line-ups.ps: rook is the single deadliest t2 cruiser in game, bar none. impossible to beat 1v1."
"there is no point in reasoning with him, we have tried in warfare and tactics repeatedly. he doesn't know how to fit caldari ships which is his main problem.edit. not supported"
"seriously. after spamming warfare and tactics with your \"omg all caldari are broken!\" threads (and i counted one for almost each caldari ship); your in here complaining about caldari. the only thing caldari (and gallente need) is a buff to hybrids otherise they are good imo.so please stop spamming the forums asking ccp to tailor the game to you and eother learn how to utilize the caldari or go train another race. every forum i enter your in it complaining about caldari ships, go away noob."
"caldari not used in pvp? what?at a certain fountain fleet battle yesterday i happened to be flying the only megathron there (it was all i had but still)everything else was maelstroms, drakes and (super)capitals.caldari ships already got a boost due to the rockets fix, what else do you want other than fixing the fleet/shield boost issue? and don't even get me started on derailing this thread for the significant other faction that's been nerfed for..what, four expansions in a row now?"
"i am caldari my own self. and i'm telling ya, we're good 'as is', really; no need to boost us any further."
"raven? one of the few ships that lacks a pvp role in the caldari lineup (pos bash and pve but not pvp).drake, nighthawk, vulture, flycatcher, scorpion, falcon, rook, blackbird, moa, basilisk, onyx, tengu, cerberus, manticore, phoenix, chimera, wyvern, and leviathan. these are the caldari pvp ships."
"i think you meant to say gallente in the title."
"my understanding is that the t2 bpo dominance is more often seen with ships (particularly interdictors and interceptors) rather than modules.would be nice to see it looked at and confirmed one way or the other, though."
"it never hurts to investigate. the truth, after all, is out there.+1"
"!"
"it should lay the matter to rest once and for all.however, people will still complain if analysis shows that the impact is minimal."
"personally doubt it is minimal, but i want the numbers regardless. having any sort of constructive debate using guesstimates and hearsay makes me feel like a politician .. very uncomfortable feeling i dare say if nothing else, ccp can use the data mined by their pet economist to perhaps pull some tweaks and improvements to invention itself out of the hat."
"good idea. while it is obvious that t2 production from a t2 bpo is much more profitable than by use of invention, its unknown what impact t2 bpos are having on the market. invention allows for faster production of t2 items, ships especially, because multiple bpcs are being used simultaneously where there is usually only one bpo being used per producer.id really like to see such a report. ive been curious about this subject for some time.best regards,windjammer"
"i wonder when this guy will just give up and leave the game. trust me anubis, we wouldn't miss yahey, i have an idea! maybe we could just ignore his \"well-thought out\" posts and then he'll leave us alone! wait... that won't work. he'll just declare that we surrendered and that he won, and then we'll just come back and say otherwise... anyone got any ideas on how to shut this troll up?"
"you may be right about most of that."
"well, that is hardly my fault now is it. take more fuel or don't run out?so you are contending that my changes make life harder for people who don't plan ahead and wander around enemy space alone?you didn't read the op. concord isn't removed from the game. as for the population... some would say those are current numbers as it is.the main thing anyone has had against any sort of replacement idea for stargates is being able to go from a to b while ignoring everything in between. are you saying you prefer that? or is my plan to temper that with reasonable interstellar navigation not as bad as you claim.if they sit at the sun for 60 seconds, they deserve to get blown up. the main reason coverts are prenerfed is so that those carebear alliances have a shot at stopping them.camping would be harder, just in a more concentrated area. and your paranoid delusion about hi sec being open for the taking by pirates is silly, since the faction navies would still engage criminals (as i said in the op).yeah, it is obvious since i considered all the changes in context.i honestly thought most people would complain about titans being able to fly to and through jita."
"sovereignty 2.0a former main of mine. sold her in 2006 iirc."
"trolls are not welcome here."
"you could actually engage instead of simply trying to commit character assassinations. eve truly is becoming a carebear's game these days."
"there you go, please die in a hole"
"[troll]good, nobody uses that website anyways[/troll]i think that warping from one system to another systems star would be pretty cool, but it should not require fuel, just time."
"stopping the blob the blob, it seems everyone hates it but we always seem to find ourselfs drawn to it, we moan about it, we whine about the lag it brings,the hours we waste being unable to control our ship or looking at the dreaded black screen before waking up in a station 20 jumps away withoutfiring a shot. many of us have wasted so much of our game time doing these exact things, some have even moved on and left eve due to the inabilityto escape this 'blob' mentality which plagues this wonderful game.the problem with eve is, it is completely up to us how we play this game, we are the driving force behind it, we create the stories, we shape the games history and here lies the problem, people are too scared to lose the things they have worked so hard for, the internet spaceship pixels that they have ground out isk to buy, so we seek safety in numbers. look at the current 0.0 ruled by 4 major coailitionsmade up of tens of thousands of players drawn together to protect their 0.0 empires, but why is this needed, yes this is an mmo game,people should build empires and seak allies but are the current numbers really needed that these coalitions bring?the reality is, its to easy to defend space, just throw 1000+ players into your systems and any attacking force would have little to no chance of taking your space, but why is it so easy to do this? the answer is titan bridges and jump bridges.jump bridge and titan the bridges, the problem!for this example i could use any of the major coailitions, but because they are the most well known i will use the nc, its nothing personnal i just know there alliances better than the other coailtions. the nc as we know holds massive amounts of space up north, if we include goons and test as part of the nc, their empire spans almost half way across the 0.0 map, all the way from geminate to cloud ring, this is anarea of space that covers thousands of systems, so why is it that this large area of space can be covered in so few jumps for these entitiesthat live there, simple, jump bridges and to an extent titan bridges. and it is because of these jump bridges and titan bridges that these northernalliances can deploy and defend this massive amount of space with such huge numbers with such little effort and that surely cant be how this gamewas intended to be played.why is it so easy to move around 0.0 like this, as someone who used to live in deep 0.0 when i first started playing i remember having to travel50+ jumps through 0.0 from empire. 0.0 was a dangerous and hard place to live, but with the introduction of jump bridges 0.0 has become almost riskfree in most areas, yes people still get killed there but it is so much easier to live there than ever before, and because of this players are flockingto 0.0 alliances, as the rewards that are available way out match any risk.now im sure people are asking so how will the removal of jump bridges help stop blobbing? with the removal of jump bridges it will be much harder for alliances to move from one area of space to another in a sort ammount of time, look at therecent events in fountain, how is it possible for alliances like mm and rzr to turn up there and still be able to defend their home space, surely if an alliance wants to help take an outpost 5 regions away it should be somewhat harder to do than that. alliances should be forced to relocate if theywant to assault a region far away, or if they want to help an ally. so if say it wanted to help init like they are they shouldnt be able to just bridgebetween the regions, sub caps should have to do the 20-30 jumps to relocate, alliances should have to actualy put some logistical effort into move therealliance to help defend a different region."
"now if alliances were forced to have to relocate 30+ jumps to help there allies it would be a real effort just like defending large spaces of 0.0 shouldbe, but what would happen if their space was also being attacked, would alliances make 60+ jump roundtrips to help defend their space aswell as thereallies? maybe, maybe not but it would require alot more effort, many people wouldnt be willing to do this or have the time, these alliances would thenhave to split there forces between the 2 war zones resulting in smaller scale fighting, it would be no longer possible for one defending blob to justbridge around their space blobbing every possible threat, it also wouldnt be benefical for an attacker to blob up in one area and only attack one target,it would force people to split there forces and hit different targets resulting in smaller fights, which i think we can all agree on would be much betterthan the 1000 vs 800 lag fests most coalitions are forced into today.also with the removal of bridges more people would have to travel coventionally through 0.0 giving smaller alliances the ability to harass larger alliances and to actual wage effective guriella warfare and actualy hurt these larger alliances. it would also mean these larger alliances would have to send out gangs to help clear their space and defend it. now historically these home defence fleets dont usually attract massive numbers meaning the chances ofactualy getting a fight from the hostiles harrassing your space are much higgher then forming a huge blob in your home system and bridging almost on top of them.to also help promote smaller combat and reduce the need for people to blob, the way sov works would have to change, people dont want to have to sit shooting structures with millions of hitpoints for hours, or sit waiting for modules to online, sov needs to be more dynamic, it still needs to givethe defender a chance to respond to an attack but no longer than 24 hours, its daft how alliances can wait for sometimes 72 hours before needing torespond to a threat on one of their systems, and then respond with a lag crippling blob.tl,drremove jump bridges and titan bridges, make it harder to defend large areas of space which in turn would create smaller conflicts around evealso make sov more dynamic and more fun, no sshooting boring structures for hours on end."
"you don't have to press 'enter' for every new line you want."
"yeah it was done on a poor word processor, so to use enter more than i wanted to keep track of it."
"i was told that when incarna roles around we will all have to recreate our character portrates. i for one spend alot of time one mine and i know there are alot of people who have unique characters that are important to them and would be nearly impossible to recreate from memory.since the portrate is rendered from a 3d model as it is i belive ccp should apease the community by sending out a mass email with slider positions and facial geometry for their characters so that they have a place to start when recreating their char for incarna. the data can probibally be extractedathough if ccp really cared tho they should take some steps to ensure that the origional model is loaded as the base for the new portratea character is an extension of the player and i would hate to see wis turn into a identity wipe"
"must admit your avatar is totaly unique and i've not seen one like it in 7 years."
"actually there are 2 kinds of people those who press random and those who create a custom avatar. but it isn't just my avatar everyone who spends more than 5 minutes in the creator has a unique character"
"ccp considered making software that would copy the avatars we have now and try to generate something that's the same. the thing is, it would have been a huge amount of work and kind of pointless considering we're perfectly capable as human being to replicate our avatars by ourselves.that was from a dev blog a while back, not sure which one though.anyway they're right, just save the picture of your current avatar from the portait folder, keep it somwhere safe for january and the third incursion patch. even if you only have one monitor, just put the game in windowed mode while you make a new character with your old avatar picture at hand."
"it would have to be a fairly massive debuff to be in line with the other ewar options. i would support something like a falcon being able to do a 50-60% resistance debuff at ~70km as that would combat the main complaint about ecm - knowing you are being hit with ewar and not instantly dying."
"absolutely. you have my full support with this one. ccp, pretty pleeeeeaaaase??"
"right now we have the autopilot, which creates a path for us to follow and kindly colors the gate icons in our overview yellow to show us where we need to go.however, when going on a mission, this is currently not automatic and has to be set manually.i propose that we have a second \"mission only\" autopilot that automatically sets itself to the destination of your \"active\" mission. the \"active\" mission setting would also be introduced, allowing you to set a certain mission as your main mission (since people rarely, but do, take multiple missions at the same time).in order to differentiate the mission autopilot from the current normal autopilot, the mission ap should color the icons a different color, perhaps even make it customizable."
"is there a problem with your ability to right click the mission systems name in the offered mission and then clicking auto pilot yourself?i mean it's rather obvious to me... why not you?"
"aw, i was hoping this would be a vote to allow tractoring of wrecks that don't belong to you. would have voted for that.not supported. if you aren't getting enough salvage in your own missions, try salvaging someone elses."
"just wait until you find out that the bounty for npc kills goes to the pilot who scored the killing blow.in the meantime, you need to realise that this is a pvp game and ninja salvaging is as acceptable a career as mission running. to many people, mission running is an abomination which must be stopped. to many people, ninja salvaging is an abomination which must be stopped.you can avoid the pvp aspects to some extent by avoiding the systems with lots of players."
"pvp game, lets look at that call shall we.there is low sec and high sec, the game is built to accomadate both the nonconfrontational person and the person that wants to shoot someone because they can't do that legaly in real life. calling eve a pvp game is a shallow concept. also, if you hate mission running so bad then petition for it to be dropped, i dare you. the fact is that ships like the noctis were designed with wreck ownership in mind and the 'abandon wreck' feature supports this idea. this one request is not a big leap."
"hisec is meant to be safeer, not safe. pvp still happens in hisec, witness ninja salvaging, suicide ganking, faction warfare. you consent to pvp action when you undock. to claim otherwise is to hide one's head in a bucket and claim that the world doesn't exist. i'm a hisec mission-running carebear. yet i encourage people to explore ninja salvaging as a career. perhaps i'm conflicted, or perhaps i just recognise that eve is the game that everyone makes it.this one request is a huge leap. i would go exactly the opposite direction and suggest that all wrecks should either spawn as abandoned, or only have \"ownership\" until the mission-runner hands the mission in.just because some people get upset about other people salvaging faster than them, doesn't make ninja salvaging unfair. you need to leave your sense of entitlement at the login screen, and take the required action to protect yourself from having all your wrecks salvaged from underneath you. that required action is (a) salvage faster, (b) run missions in uncrowded systems, or (c) give up on salvaging as a career."
"can we please remove the option of blowing up your own ship to avoid getting a loss mail. people shouldn't fly a ship if they are not willing to see it in the loss mail list. watching a carrier blow up because he deadspace and office fit it and ran his ****y ass into a massive gank with his mates is annoying. i mean for instants yesturday i was in a nice little fight. pies hotdropped us with three carriers and the second the saw no way of running, all three carriers hit the \"im a *****\" button. alot of effort was put into getting that fight and to see them turn tail and just take the cheap way out was a true disapointment. so i propose the removal of the self destruct button on an aggro'ed capital ship, so they can't continue to foolishly engage and then blow themselves up so no one sees how stupid they were."
"."
"you not getting a killmail isn't an urgent issue"
"it's pretty funny though.also not supported."
"killmails are in no way important. its an boring e-peen thing, i suggest learning to play."
"or it should give the killmail to the person who does the most damage on the ship when they self destruct"
"it is only epeen centric's like yourself that uses self-destruct to prevent the mail generation (their kb efficiency goes down, oh noes!).everyone else does it to deny the victor the spoils, the same way navies have scuttled ships for centuries when capture was imminent or a child will stuff the last piece of cake in his mouth to deny his sibling from getting any.e-peen has no value, isk does. not supported."
"so your saying its childish but expected. well while i can't fly a carrier yet, i still cant ever see myself doing it. it just seems cowardly and childish. it is afterall a game and all ships must die. i just hope i retain that view come the day i undock in a minmatar carrier."
"yes, but there is a significant isk amount involved as well. capital wrecks can yield some rather large sums in loot if the loot-generator hamsters are well rested and fit for fight.you mention three carriers, depending on fits the could easily represent a value of a billion or more provided the victor has access to a few haulers.it is the same reason that one sometimes get the order that gives loot-ninjas everywhere nightmares: shoot the wrecks!"
"they were deadspace fit in the lows with one office mod thats getting sold on this forum by my ceo. but still fit only what your happy to lose when it goes boom. thats what i do. saves on emo rage."
"not supported. in fact id like to see the timer on the self-destruct mechanism shortened so ships other than capitals can take advantage of the mechanism.i have a suggestion, though. why not start a proposal that gives kill mails to the attackers of a ship which self-destructs. seems thatd be fair enough. after all, the attacker is the one who ultimately caused the ship to be put into self-destruct. bragging rights are as important as anything else in eve.also, presenting a proposal in the form of, look what happened to me and isnt it terrible, is the best way to draw flames and no support.regards,windjammer"
"awww... poor widdle [e]pee[n]vee[e]pee[n]'er doesn't have enough pwn4g3 to kill a carrier before it's self-destructing.isn't that just the cutest widdle thing you've ever seen?mmmmm tears...."
"protip: the main reason to self destruct is that it generates crybaby threads like this one."
"less risk = more pvp, isn't what pvp people want the most ? more targets ? elf filled fantasy game ? no need to throll or provoke."
"no. people want thrills in pvp, people want to hurt other people. when losses are rendered meaningless, victory feels pointless. just like any online fps, or like wow pvp.if anything, we want eve pvp to become more serious - no ship insurance, higher costs."
"if it remains that way or worse i don't see how you'll gain more people doing pvp. you're wrong about meaningless victory, most people are kill mail *****s. plus, harrassing corps in high sec won't become meaningless, just as destroying enemies pos or kicking them out of low sec or 0.0 or a wh will still have a huge impact on morale. the guy losing his carrier will still feel very bad."
"i'm against all measures that make pvp cheaper than it is already. in my opinion it has become too cheap. over the years it became easier to make big isk, while costs for everything essential have been dropping.quality over quantity"
"maybe you feel that way because you've been in this game for a long time, new people who can barely afford good implants have a hard time with pvp"
"don't bother with implants then if you are poor.contrary to popular believe, implants are a luxury, not a necessity. and those who cannot afford to lose them should not use them.and the cost of +2 is so cheap that even a month old noob can afford to lose them every couple days"
"indeed, however since the popular belief is so strong, i suggest an alternative that can allow you to use implants and keep them for a while longer for pvp activities."
"if ccp completely gave up on all their original principles and just catered the the lowest common denominator, this game would be just like wow, only less popular cause there are no elfs.there has already been a whole bunch of steps back from the hardcore principles, a whole bunch of concessions made to make pvp easy and cheap.anyway, the public would never accept this idea, cause most people actually agree with my line of thinking on this one."
"i don't care much, at least my idea is out there... as for the elf and wow reference, what's the deal ? i never played that game, most people in eve never played it, i wish people would stop making that ridiculous reference.but from the look of it, you played it a lot and it's still on your mind !"
"whats next? requesting insurance for faction mods?pathetic."
"the thought of cheaper pvp is good, the reasons yarr tards ***** about lack of targets is because no one wants to die for trying to mine.howeverno, implants a major isk sink, +5's cost about 65mil +lp from the lp store ect.and if bought off market there is a fair market tax.so no."
"usually people post in the features and ideas board to see how viable/well received their idea is before bringing it to the assembly hall. if the idea flops there, then chances are it will flop here.not supported."
"not supported. at least give us one gun type which can switch damage type. fitting reqs might be a bit steeper, tracking a bit lower, but don't lose the damage types.i hear you claim that \"suddenly\" they switch to plasma, where you made yourself a resist hole.a: suddenly takes 10 secondsb: you are to blame for your resist holesi'd say give hybrids different damage types and instant damage switch, just to grief the op."
"what makes acs so good is not the fact that they can do all damage types its due to their great range and their great tracking which gives them more dps due to critical hits occurring more often also minmatar ships are the fastest and most agile ships and some of them have very strong bonuses such as 5% to rof and damage (cane and tempest) and bonus to falloff (vaga and cynabal)also a lot of minmatar ships are shield tankers and have a lot of low slots to fit 3 gyros and/or 1 or two tracking enhancers what needs to be done is reduce ac tracking so they don't do as much damage while mwding around and reduce the bonuses to falloff on tracking enhancers so they don't have so much range anymore yeah that will mostly nerf minmatar nano ships but those are the ones that are op imhoalso buff gallente ships to be faster then minmatar so their nano ships get something to fearits just logical that the ships with the shortest ranged guns need to have the highest speed"
"not at all, but it is an uninspired change that serves no real purpose other than vindicate some perceived slight. having a gun option with the same benefits as missiles is perfect from a variety stand point, just need to add the drawbacks.points? huh? prize for: \"most ******ed argument ever\", goes to ... thankfully the majority of the game population is not as ridiculously narrow minded as you so i think i'll muddle through without those points.guns themselves are not, the problems arise when they are fitted on bonused hulls and te's are slapped on.ccp completely missed the extraordinary synergy created by that combo, which i have been saying since the change took effect .. indeed prior to change during proj.buff discussion - the rise to fotm was obvious from the start."
"the only change they need to make is lower the fall off bonus on tracking enhancers a bit, maybe post a blog about how fall off works as well so i dont have to see those idiotic posts that claim my shield tempest does 1000dps at 60km with barrage"
"ah, the ammarrians want to nerfing the acs.not supported.we dont want more amarrians online such as now is the eve.i like when amarrians want to nerfing all minnie weapons but crying for buff for their all ship and weapons as we see that at omen to geddon topics."
"wow, just noticed the falloff bonus is twice that of optimal. cutting both by 33% (to 10% optimal/20% falloff) would help a lot .. should provide a little gimp to the pulsezeals as well so double bonus. omgomgomgomgomg .. nerf! wishful reading for the win! i thought it was capitals, canes or drakes online. not seeing a whole lot of gold in space these days.and for the record, i was one of the vocal proponents in the proj.buff debate prior to the change .. but where some matar wanted twice what they got (yeah, really!) the more sane among us advocated a more balanced tweak.but do you not see something wrong when a bs (albeit faction (machariel) using short range weapons can hit at sniper ranges (~50% damage at 110km)? at least the pulsepoc has to sacrifice any hope of tank and uses tons of cap to get to 100km which is about the absolute max it can reach (mach's falloff allows even further projection).ps: what armageddon thread? haven't seen any of those since i started playing i think .. when people reminisced about he old non-stacking days of 7 hs geddon gate camps."
"lol i know it always makes me laugh when people say it but the blog would mean that people would understand fall off, even if it gives me less to read at work when im bored."
"oh and you see apoc with scorch ?you always laughing me. and check the boards amarr bs online everywhere with mixed drake fleets.oh i almost forgot the crazy zealot fleets, with guardians.no, not supported rhis cr*p ac nerf."
"idk i think ac's/arty might be a lil too strong. but needs tweaking."
"if you are trolling the forums without consequence and you're a ccp employee (which does happen) perhaps normal players have the right to know that you work for ccp. the normal players that have to adhere to your rules. i'd like all of the anonymous forum posting by ccp employees to stop and something to be done to rectify the damage that has been done. ccp employees should have to post as ccp employees and flagged as ccp employees."
"let's start with you shall we?"
"beside the lack of references to what has you so riled up, why we need to know that a character belong to an accountant or janitor employed at ccp?if a developer has something to say as a developer he will use his ccp [name] account. if he want to say something as a normal player he will use his player account."
"..any proof you can produce?"
"maybe he's mad his troll spam threads in warfare and tactics are getting locked."
"fyp."
"have to say i approve of this fix/post"
"posting in some sort of thread."
"in the spirit of this thread i'd like to declare that i am in fact ccp torfifranzposting on my alt."
"our logs, they show nothing."
"if you are worried that no one will abandon wrecks then how about this idea:if i recall right, wrecks and cargo have a set life span. how about at that 50% lifespan mark the wreck becomes salvagable and lootable to all players. that way a ninja would still have his booty on the guy that doesnt like to salvage, and the guy who wants to salvage his wrecks can do so for the first 50% of the time. i admit that ninjas have it hard and have to work to find their targets, but the mission runner is putting a more significant risk when running a lv4 (at least 50 mill in most cases). the average ninja salvager has spent most likely under 2 mill for their ship and the training time is like 2% the amount of time the lv4 runner has invested to do those missions. in the grand sceam it is not fair to the person that has worked all that time and paid the subscriptions to do so. most of mission runner points are far more valid than that of a ninja. the definition of an illegal act is a wrongful action, and ninja salvagers have wronged others.in my opinion ninjas are just pirates that are afraid of getting shot."
"if you need salvage so bad, simply learn to scan, and you can find all sort of wrecks in other people's missions. it's great, they can't even shoot at you, and if you want to shoot at them, just steal from the can and the dumber ones will agress you, then you come back and blow them up with a pvp ship."
"to be fair what risk, i have run lvl 4's in my tech 1 fitted dominix back in the day. i used to just drop drones and go afk for 15-20mins then come back and salvage or go to the next room. lvl 4's are probably the easiest isk in the game in terms of actual playing skill (not sp) and risk.as for the op, i have said in most of these threads when that idea appears that it will hurt the mission runner more than ninja salvagers, as they will then come and complain when there billion isk mission running ship gets popped by some ninja salvager they rage shot."
"no. when your ear hurts, and you want to see the doctor about it a million times, chances are he'll start taking you seriously around, say, the 5th time you visit him. that's because \"it just means that something has been brought up a million times\" is just a phrase. in reality there are, of course, underlying reasons for people bringing up certain issues a lot. when that number gets into the proverbial millions, it's time to take the complaints seriously.nah. that's my point precisely! cogent arguments against ninja salvaging have been brought up a million times before already: they just need to be taken seriously once."
"an argument which can be easily falsified as follows:if the devs thought ninja-salvaging was okay, they would not have restricted tractor beam access to the owner of the wrecks. the fact they have, and have, in fact, stated repeatedly that it works as they intended it to work all along, seems to indicate that wrecks should be considered the sole property of the one creating the wrecks, and that an infringment of the owner's rights to said wrecks should cause the perpetrator to be flagged to the aforementioned owner."
"or it could mean they still wanted the salvaging advantage to be in the hands of the wreck creator and therefore making it so it is ninja salvaging not 'just park a salvage boat somewhere and tractor stuff to you' salvage"
"what you are describing is probably closest to reality as it exists today.however, under international maritime law, a foreign salvor is not entitled to salvage, since it is the right of the owner of any vessel to refuse unwanted salvage. unless there's clear and convincing evidence of the \"express abandonment\" of the wreck (eve actually provides such a mechanism). as such, since 'title' to the wreck is not abandoned until expressly stated by the owner, logic dictates that all rights to the wreck should remain with the owner until he does. in that regard eve oddly deviates from common international maritime law."
"why should eve adhere to modern maritime law"
"because it makes sense? :)if you don't expressly give up title to your wreck, it's only logical that you get to keep all rights over it. eve, and that's the funny part, does provide a mechanism to abandon your wreck, signifying you abandon your rights to it also; but then... and there's the kink in the current game mechanic, it essentially runs the whole act of abondoning moot, as it turns out you didn't have exclusive salvage rights to begin with."
"no, you and your corporation had exclusive tractor beam rights"
"by that logic, npcs should own the wrecks of their ships, not the person who shot them, and unless the npcs then abandon said ships, you should get flagged and shot for trying to steal their salvage.please please stop trying to apply arbitrary creations of modern human society to a game. it makes you sound like an idiot who can't separate fantasy from reality."
"please, please, try and keep your namecalling to a minimum, lest people think you're an idiot who can't win his arguments otherwise.as for ownership of the wrecks, that choice lies squarely with ccp -- and they chose to give it to the missioner (immersion-wise, one could argue that their wrecks have been confisquated; they're pirates, after all, remember? but i digress). the point, however is, that salvage rights ought to follow the owner of the wreck (whoever that is); especially when ccp went out of their way to build in a way for the owner to abandon his wreck.it is, in the end, really just a matter of internal consistency."
"that is something that i felt that ccp wonted to do but left out as you all know ships have 4 elemental groups of resisters the em, ther, ken and exp the values are reversed more or less from shield to armor, we also have a skill that reduces damage bleed through from the shield to the armor , what if there was a way to control the damage bleed through going through the shields on to the armor for example lets say 50% meaning that the shied will absorb only 50% of a hit the other 50% will strike the armor if we have this adjustment then we can use both the shield and armor and if you are able to do the adjustments on the fly it will make the game so match more interesting .that method is nice to have the npcs to use toa tactic of use example you are under attack and you notice that they using explosive damage immediately you increase the shield resistance to 100% getting full damage to shield but you know that you have 60% to explosive on that shield better then that 10% on the armor then your attacker realizes what you deed and use emps to then you decide to balanced and get the shield to 50% bleed through.that was a small example so you all can understand what i want to express"
"a slightly related question i came up with is now many ppl that claim to be hacked have made quite some nice $$$ in the process. a fairly big can of worms indeed."
"i just want to say thank you for the work everyone of the csm is investing. even if it seems to sound different sometimes, i think that the majority of eve players appreciates that a lot. the current results and development plans speak already for themselves."
"i have found a few of the blogs done by csm members, and it seems to me that we should have a sticky post at the top of one of the csm forums with links to the blog pages of any csm member that does blog. what does everyone think about this? good idea or no? please let me know what you think. i can make a proposal in the ah if everyone (ok mostly everyone) thinks it is a worthwhile idea."
"excellent idea in my eyes."
"it's a good idea, but when drafting your proposal consider whether it would be most practical for ccp to create it so that it can be easily updated across csm terms--since any player who creates such a post could leave the game or have their account go inactive and then not be around to update it. however, to keep the op interesting/relevant/useful, it's an idea to list first all the csm dev blogs. individual blogs written by csm members could then be listed below that. anyway once such a post is created, it's trivial to get it stickied cuz you know, ccp zymurgist is the god of the stickies ;)"
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"i agree, having bops ships not fit covops cloaks unlike all the other ships of its breed is simply silly. the jumprange/fuel efficiency buffs don't sound like a bad idea either.as for covert cynos, covops t3s not being able to light them is mere silliness (i'm guessing its an artifact of the way the covert cyno is set up as opposed to the covert ops cloak), as they can do everything else a covops ship can. as other posters indicated, all the brs except the prowler would need an extra high slot (the prowler would get an extra low in this case, to keep things from becoming rather strange) if they were given the ability to light covert cynos.as for being able to light covert cynos in hisec: i'm not sure. this change would have to be discussed separate from any bops buffs.other buffs to bops ships (gank/tank/ewar) probably should be discussed separately as well."
"yousaidritalin?ritalinisverygoodindeediloveritalinitmakesmeabletodoanythingiwantasfastasiwantandnowibidyoufarewelltheyarecomingformebutiamtoofast!seriously - supported."
":condi:this is terrible. this is a nyx nerf while the aeon and wyvern keep their ehp. **** you and die bfm."
"actually if you know anything of it's supercap fleet you would know it's quite titan heavy. they have something along the lines of a dozen times our amount of titans. so if we wanted to have our best chance of getting into delve we would want supercarriers to be as strong as possible not nerfing them if this was part of some ulterior motive."
"not sure about damage reduction on fb tbh, but yes to everything else.as for xttz idea, not really keen on af getting a focus point but would be nice to see titans changed so they cant kill non caps."
"nerf them into the gound baby! into the ground!lmao"
"i wholeheartedly support this!"
"coulda sworn i read in one ot the devblogs regarding lissle changes how such changes would allow graphic upgrades...eitherway, total agreement."
"logical solution is logical.reduce lag in fleet fights and it will look cooler. another step to lag free 1000+ man fights. just do it cpp!"
"thanks for supports! i'd like to see this idea make it onto the csm's list of ideas to propose to ccp.don't forget that, when you post, to click the box at the bottom near \"post reply\" to actually 'support' the topic! that way the thread in the forum index shows an accurate count of how many people have supported the thread. thanks!"
"supported. would love to see the missiles get some love."
"i support this!it would some using to, but then - 2000 man battle?! working properly?!?! do want!!!very good idea indeed."
"it was here few years ago, but wny not?"
"i support this. i also believe to get rid of lag on such massive grid is kind of out off possibilities of anybody. this may be manageable."
"i love itadrenaline kicks, anyone?"
"me and all my alts support this.i think slow down on other systems on the node would be better than lag for no reason in a system with only 2 people in it while running a mission. though of course ideally limiting the temporal distortion to one system, is better than one node, with the best being localized to one grid. if/when ccp figure out how to split solar systems up into multiple nodes. i don't think shutting down the gates into the system makes sense but it would make sense if your jump into the system was effected as well with a traffic advisory or temporal distortion advisory anyway. the thing about having more time to bring support is that both sides in theory have the extra time to bring reinforcements. though never having been part of any major 0.0 conflict i don't know how these things go down usually."
"though a bit harder to implement. there are already features of system wide effects, this could just be a more functional one of those. that happens to be dynamic."
"not that this will have much to do with me and my carebearing, but it is a very clever idea that deserves a chance to be tested out.how much trouble is it for ccp to do a test feature? seems like this is an issue that has very vocal population even if the 0.0 population in general is smaller than that of highsec. but if 0.0 is one of the end games in eve then isn't at least attempting it worth some development time. or at least a ccp brainstorming session. though i would rather they spend time first trying to get that total fleet fight number as high as software and hardware could make it first then roll with the punch that is massive fleet fight lag."
"i am ok with this"
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"ccp this topic has garnered constant support for 7 months. no reason not to do this."
"1.0"
"well said!i would like to remind people again that the way in which this is implimented is not a primary concern for this thread and should not affect you decision. the important thing is that it is implimented. it's not the job of the players to figure out how to segregate mature content from tame content. look at second life.if i want to go to futanari palace i just have to agre verify by putting in the drivers licenses or the last 4 digits of my social security number. works fine and once i have done it i can go anywhere in the grid. the point i am trying to make is many other games have done this and put ****girls into the game despite the presence of minors in the player base. this thread needs more support votes, encourage your corp mates and alt accounts to vote. i want this thread to reach an amazing amount of support because then the csm will have no choice but to mention it."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"mkes all ****ing sence in the wrold. mkae it wrock"
"this idea of course extends to shield repair too."
"has always annoyed me that this couldn't happen.since dps is king in pve, this may increase the isk faucet that is mission running, but that should be fixed by the continuing work ccp is doing on making less but smarter and harder npc's the norm. in pvp i don't think it would unbalance anything greatly and just add more variety to peoples setups."
"my novice mate in an apoc is killing sleepers as fast or faster then my max skilled main in hyperion. that is simply embarrasing.however, i don't think that a flat damage bonus is what we need. changemust be better thought through and surgical."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"supported."
"yeah, hell"
"yeah, it is a player driven market after all!"
"+1 for making more goods player-built.i think pi has a good lineup as is, but expanding it isn't a bad idea. there could be more higher-end-processed goods in my opinion...ccp put in a pretty good base set of raw materials across all of the planets."
"i would lean towards decreasing reload time and re-tasking ammunition into two families. one would be short range and high tracking while the other would be geared towards rails with long range and high alpha. but what do i know, i am a dirty projectile user."
"dibilistic null ammo bonus still bugs me...bump!"
"i've always wondered why players can't simply warp where they want. if it would be said to influence balance, why are bookmarks able to be left during warp? that just allows this indirectly - if not very efficiently. i see no reason, from a game design standpoint, why this cannot be made possible. it is obviously possible in terms of techicality, or warping to bookmarks in empty space wouldn't be possible.i propose an addition to the solar system map. when you open the map, there should be a button that says \"warp to coordinates\". you would then be presented with the solar system, flattened and going across your screen (showing the orbital paths and place of celestial objects, of course.)you would pick a point on the x-axis where you'd want to warp. this would be saved, and a red line would line up showing the next possible y-cordinate locations. the map would rotate to allow you to pick those.after having picked both coordinates, the \"warp to coordinates\" button would flash, and, if pressed, would allow you to warp to that specific location in the solar system. this is great from a design standpoint, because it's rather versatile. you could make it so that you can only do it on patches of empty space you've scanned with probes, or etc."
"any use for this besides safespots or safely approaching bubbled gates in nullsec?can't see any harm from this and probably has been proposed before./supported"
"i can't think of any immediately, but it doesn't seem hard to implement and will surely serve someone, somewhere well"
"i support this in principle, but there will need to be some kind of drawback.if players are allowed to warp to arbitrary coordinates without any other changes, then it would be possible for a covert operations ship to spot someone on directional scanner, figure out the approximate range and direction, warp while cloaked to get closer, figure out approximate range and direction again, and repeat until finally on-grid. you would be able to find people at safespots and mission spaces without the use of a probe launcher. (corollary: this would break the eccm-heavy unprobable missionrunning fits; i don't know if that's something players or ccp would want to do.) a possible drawback that could be applied is attaching a celestial object to the ship while it's warping to coordinates, and the celestial object could be a beacon called \"anomalous warp signature\". another possible drawback that could be used instead is forcing even a covops ship to decloak while warping to coordinates. these are just suggestions; other kinds of drawbacks could be devised instead. a possible alternate method would be to allow players to warp to an arbitrary point on the \"deepsafe nerf barrier\": a sphere centered on the star and with a radius of 20 astronomical units beyond the most distant celestial object. any other point can then be found as a midwarp bookmark within this sphere, albeit slowly, which is an advantage that any player who made lots of deepsafe bookmarks before the tyrannis deepsafe nerf would already have."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"change rules in fw.neutral logis on field so annoying. they repping the fw enemies without consequences.no gcc on them, no visual effect on overview when they repping f. wartargets. no aggro timers on them and they can jumped easily to other side.give to them gcc, sentry fire or 1 minutes aggrotimer too. join to fw if they want to fight or give to them consequences if they want to repping fw targets in battles."
"if this does not give the opposing militia the right to shoot the logi, it should indeed be fixed, it's probably a bug considering normal war dec mechanics."
"it is not a problem that is limited to fw, same rules apply for remote assistance as everywhere else as far as i have observed. the aggression rules do need a serious overhaul regardless."
"that's different, you get the right to shoot them. it seems that that is not the case in fw."
"only in high sec should they not be allowed to jump. in most commonly in null they are trying to avoid the blob, same thing also happens in low. if they are repping fw targets and you have to go gcc to kill them that is a necessary fix."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"i remember with my first character, spending hours trying to get a decent omen fit in eft.by the time i could actually fit something even a little worthwhile on my omen, i was flying zealots."
"you're evil that'd be so funny if it happened though.i have absolutely no reason in my right mind to not support this plex idea. also, plex for pizza would be nice as well..."
"i do not support this proposal. instead i want ccp to bring on the t3 modules and ammo and finish up the t3 frigates and battleships. at the same time then t2 bpos should be reintroduced onto the market available from the same corps that give out the datacores.now you're saying \"wtf, now datacores are worthless!\". not so. they would still be used for t3 invention. when i say t3 modules and ammo, i mean the whole range from launchers, ammo, and even to the basic cargo expander and mining laser."
"quite the contrary. taking away (or at least severely unsticking) the bottleneck of moon mineral production means dirt-cheap (or at least much cheaper) moon minerals, which means a whole lot more dirt-cheap t2 items getting manufactured and purchased, which means t2 bpos mean even less than they do now, reducing the earnings of bpo holders."
"fun facts: - module invention wastage is applied only on the to the asteroids minerals, so some teen of thousand isk of difference per unit;- to research a t2 bpo you need more skill and higher skills levels that to invent one. so, no, it is not a black and white polarity like you say.you guys are so fixed on a few very good ship bpo that you don't see that most of the t2 bpo are modules, ammunitions and drones."
"i did some back-of-envelope calculations in another thread based on the summer 2009 qen numbers, and came to the conclusion that isk-wise, between at least 70% up to over 80% of the isk-wise sales volume of t2 items come from invented items."
"yes please."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"hum that's an interesting idea"
"actually no, the gun wouldn't fire. no oxygen to light the gunpowder. please stop and think before you say something.anyway, the limits of weapon range in eve exist. pure and simple. and the range limit is based on two things: ammo type, and gun used (ignoring skills for the purpose of equality).what is likely happening (yes, only theory, but logical to the best extent possible) is that the shot dissipates (be it vaporisation, self annihilation, whatever) over distance. simply put, any given ammo has a limited range it can fire, and the ability of the gun to have a higher muzzle velocity (or better power regulation for lasers) would increase that range from a weaker gun.simply, a frig gun can't fire the ammo at a fast enough velocity to reach something out of its \"range\" before the ammo goes poof.mind you, this has no support that i know of in eve lore, but it is the only reason i can think of that would allow for what we see.also, i've missed relatively stationary frigs (quite frequently) while just slightly outside of optimal where i would not miss a bs, so size is defiantly a factor."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"this is probably the way i would like to see it done myself. just give me a button that says \"halp halp! ai needz a shipz!\" or something."
"simple idea that doesn't hurt anyone and doesn't affect you if you don't want it to. hmm i don't see anything wrong with it. just depends on how much time it takes to develop."
"my onyx/scorpion/basilisk is yet to be turned down by a fc."
"ferox is not a bad sip either. i flew it or the lols a few times, and it is quite solid."
"caldari thingies that need fixing:rockets.cruise missiles. a long-range anti-bs missile is simply not a very useful weapon system. but i've no idea how to fix this. some more speed would help, but lms, hms and cruise all have the same speed, and lms and hms work okay, and it seems a little arbitrary to give cruise a speed increase. hmmm.scorpion? it's designed as a fleet ecm bs. but it has similar performance against opposing snipers when fitted with tds or rsds, and can fit some armour into the bargain. ccp was trying to remove the 200 km ecm boat for good reason, but that's exactly what the scorpion needs to be in their vision. i think liang or someone did some modelling and showed that, given that the scorpions always get primaried, there's no real advantage to flying it over another sniper bs. however, since sniper bs are fairly dead atm, i'm not sure what the solution would look like. the other idea of a torp brawler scorp was very interesting, but there should be a fleet t1 ecm boat, and the scorpion is the only real candidate for that.rails. lacklustre on cruiser and bs scale. more range? or individual fixes for the eagle and rokh (more pg?)?capital tanks. shields are a bit lol. indirect fix by making slaves have no effect on capitals, moving two nidhoggur lowslots to medslots, some sort of hel boost, and reduce the cpu use of shield transporters by 67%. and make gang bonuses to shield capacity add shield, not just capacity, so people don't lose the extra shield at every session change."
"if you said \"bring back caldari to solo pvp\", i would have supported it."
"problemso, i am apparantly a bad pvper. k so, leik, one time i was killing this navy slicer, then he had a dramiel warp in as he ran away and web scram me and they killed me pretty quick, i feel i should get the km for this since they milfed it and since i was taking on multiple enemies. (and pwning the first one, i might add)and then, i am owning a dramiel with my mwd arty jag and his shields are almost gone, what happens next? oh **** a falcon warps in, jams me, before i went completely into warp the dram gets a scram on me and i die. i feel i should get a km for this too since i owned him and got milfed by a falcon.this kind of bull**** happens all the time, i feel cheated, i feel like, why am i have a bad kd ratio when really i pwn mostly any other solo pilot i come across and almost all of my deaths are from being ganked.solution - give me more points than the enemy if i am owning an enemy but get cheated out of the kill. i mean like if im in a shuttle and get ganked at a gate dont give me points but if i put up a fight and it is reasonable to assume i wouldve got a kill had the person i am shooting at been solo, than give me points so i don't feel like i am a turd.if they don't fix this i will have to fraps all of my pwnage and post it on youtube to show my prowess, but i shouldnt have to do that, ccp should fix it.if i quit you can has my stuff."
"/supported"
"so, another solution would be to ban alternate accounts.seriously, do you get a ****ing alt in real life? no, one account per computer, says i. if you want a trading alt or some other bull****, train it on the same account and suck it up. i say, get rid of all alt acounts and from now on only one account per computer and no dual boxing allowed but you get all the sp you lost on your alt accounts back on your main account so you can reiumburse them onto your new character you make. like what if you were gonna fight some dude in real life, then you're kicking his ass, all of a sudden his clone jumps on your back and starts trearing you up, meanwhile the ***** you were owning recovers and joins in on whupping your ass. that would never happen! as if you get two people."
"omg we should be friends one time i was in my dramiel and this badger stole a wreck of mine and warped to planet. i followed him cuse badger is an industrial and no guns but then he had a gun and killed my expensive faction fit dramiel!!!! wtf ccp removed industrial ship hardpoints and give me my dramiel back"
"if we're not allowed to make alt account, why are u allowed to make alt solutions?there is no problem. your ideas would only make everything worse for more people than it would do good for others. the problem isn't the system, it's the players. and i don't think it truly is a problem.it comes down to the basic fundamentals of reality. what is fair? a 1v1? no, someone will always have the upper hand, whether they locked and shot first or whether they can overheat 2 seconds longer. just like in real life, you think you beating on the one clone was fair because it was you versus him? if you beat him you were obviously a better fighter than him and so it isn't a fair fight to begin with.just like feeling sorry for guys will small ****s, it's a troubling thought that nothing is ever fair and thinking deeply on it, will only send you back out to your normal closed mind where you simply decide not to think about it.\"the guys with small ****s can use use other, more time consumning tactics to satisfy a woman,\" you think.\"the guys who suck at pvp in eve can find some other way to get kills,\" you should think.now the advantage isn't yours, it is theirs, and unlike them, you decide to complain about it, and propose solutions on how to fix it when once you realize the truth and are at peace you will realize that you shouldn't be hating on those people with falcon alts and ****, but you should feel happy for them that they found a way not to totally be obliterated in pvp."
"liek whateva.... loooossaaarrrrrr.*flashbacks of highschool**shudders*"
"sadly i was one of those girls in highschool.college saved me.also the op is a numpty."
"any money you guys gatecamp all day right? dunno what a numpty is but it must love being associated with someone as good looking and awesome as i"
"it would be a waste of time to gatecamp you... you'd just start ####ing over getting your ass kicked."
"thanks for all the comments guys, herpinyourderp, i loled. lol tony, you went pretty in depth. congratulations on taking the troll bait mwahaha! j/k, but srsly, youre ****ed. lolanyway im takin off for a bit so no replying for me, if you wanna support the topic though since this is a legitimate problem in gameplay and it is hindering my slow climb to status of new el tar."
"we already knew you where trolling.you just fail at it."
"nosferatu changesin their current implementation nosferatus not only neutralize cap of the targeted ship, but also leeches energy for your own ship. for instance a heavy nosferatu i gives you 8en/s and the peak recharge rate of a megathron is about 20en/s with good skills, so a single heavy nosferatu i gives you about 40% increase in cap recharge rate. even if the nosferatu didn't leech energy it would still be a useful module since it can neutralize a capacitor at no (energy) cost to yourself. the problem, then, is that nosferatus allows one to both leech energy off a target and at the same time neutralize its capacitor. this makes the nosferatus too powerful since there is no compromise involved. to address this issue we have changed the effect on nosferatus (but not on energy neutralizers) in order to make the nosferatu less powerful as an energy neutralizer without affecting its ability to leech energy. under the new system, the amount transferred by a nosferatu is based on the relative capacitor charge levels (measured in percent). energy is only transferred while the charge percentage of the targeted ship is higher than the charge percentage of the ship that activated the nosferatu. this means that the target is no worse off (energy wise) than the attacking ship. for instance, if a battleship with 30% capacitor left activates a nosferatu on a frigate, then the frigate is not drained below 30%. in other words, the nosferatu would not drain the capacitor of the frigate completely, though an energy neutralizer would do the job nicely (but at an energy cost to the battleship). it is, however, still possible to use nosferatus to drain a target if one is willing to sacrifice ones own energy to do so. source: old dev blog:"
"proposal 2:increase drained en/s to 25% of same class energy neutralizer per cycle (50% compared to neut)"
"he could make a report that out of 10,000 t2 bpos, 3,000 of them are still in use and 95% of all production comes from invention, and people will still think that t2 bpos are a big impact.if they suddenly change their mind, they will then just be opposed to t2 bpos for other reasons, such as \"they are unfair\".you can't win. thats why they probably haven't wasted their time. if ccp puts to bed the current whines from t2 bpo whiners, they'll come up with new whines.they think that easier invention or removing t2 bpos will make it so they make more money, sadly they can't get it through their thick head that this won't have any positive effect for them, and you'll never prove it to them otherwise because they are so bent against it they just don't care.it's just like class warfare in real life. i play eve to get away from that crap and sadly these morons want to bring it into this game.see, i told you so.invention was improved by 1000% a few months after it was implemented to crash the t2 prices down to where they are now. the prices on t2 modules dropped by 97%."
"fine so far.meh.we already know what the bottlenecks are. primary technetium, secondary neodymium.we're still running on stockpiles of those since before the dominion update nearly one year ago.when the stockpiles get depleted, that's when we'll see the real bottlenecks exerting serious pressure.you don't really need doc.e.g. to do that again to get a ballpark figure.the numbers in that qen long time ago were telling enough, even if they only dealt with volumes. drones and ammo were not mentioned, only modules and ships.for ships only, it's 56% from bpos and 44% from invention. modules plus ships combined, 33% from bpos, 67% from invention. this obviously means the vast majority of modules are being invented, but exactly how much, a bit harder to determine. another important \"thing\" there was the breakdown by ship class. for instance, for interceptors (which back then were mostly sucky and quite low-priced), the ratio was 84% bpo and 16% invention. however, for hacs (which were hugely popular before the introduction of t3 strategic cruisers), it was 25% bpos and 75% invention. and for hulks, only 11% bpo and 89% invention.long story short, whichever items were more in demand and therefore more expensive had their vast majority of numbers manufactured from invented bpcs, while only the dirt-cheap, near-cost items had their majority built from bpos, and very likely, not even from all bpos in existence.to extrapolate, at worst around 33% of the total volume of isk of t2 items sold were coming from bpo manufacture (and at best even as low as 20%, or lower), with over 67% up to maybe 80% or even higher percentage of isk volume of items traded coming from invented bpcs.ballpark numbers seem pretty clear-cut to me even back then, and we've had an increase in volumes since, with no new bpos appearing, so the percentages are most likely even more heavily skewed in favour of invention.this one is relatively easy, again.demand for datacores will slightly increase, raising prices a bit, but not noticeably above normal seasonal fluctuations.demand for moon minerals will probably increase from anywhere between as little as 10% to as much as 25%, tops. most likely figure somewhere around 15%. the effect on price however is much harder to determine. price increase of moon minerals will of course focus on the two rarest moon minerals of today, technetium and neodymium.most likely price scenarios:for low-demand t2 items, depending just how low the demand was, prices will increase by at least half, up to several times the current price, to meet the new minimal cost derived from invention. volume however will dip heavily.for in-demand t2 modules, price differences will be very small, since most of the cost comes from invention, not manufacture. you won't see much of a difference in either price (at most a 10% increase) nor volume.for in-demand t2 ships however, prices will most likely increase, but by how much, that's very difficult to determine.it will solely depend on the way moon mineral prices will evolve and on particular class of ship, since not all use similar percentages of moon minerals.price increases anywhere between as little as 5% to as much as 40% are nothing outside the realm of possibility."
"...character limit reached.but you know what, fine, please let him do the analysis, so we won't have to guesstimate anymore, so we can shove clearer numbers down the throats of \"skeptics\", numbers backed up by some form of authority.so... supported."
"i think that the effect on moon minerals will tend to be toward the low end of your prediction as the increase in t2 materials usage will be felt only for ships, not for modules as there is no t2 component wastage for most of the modules. for lesser used modules the price increase would be capped by the price of equivalent named modules. for example the rolled tungsten version of the armor plates is better on all account than the t2 version. so to sell the t2 version you generally have to set a price lower than the meta 4 version (barring a critical shortage of the meta 4 version in the area). so if ccp remove the t2 bpo of the armor plates with the \"need\" to produce to get a return from your investment the effect would be the disapparence of most if not all of the t2 armor plates. some guy would still invent them as a novelty item or because he can't do the math, but they will disappear from general usage, not sell at an higher price. edit: forgot to support, even if i doubt the good doctor will give us data with enough details to be worthwhile. he has a habit of giving pre-digested data and only on some limited stuff (for example the past quen about t2, why he hasn't given the data about modules production separated from ship production? ship production divided for size? and so on)"
"thank you for that. i am aware of the qen and the numbers you mention, but if these boards have proven anything to me then it is that \"a ballpark\" figure, even if right on the money will always be brought into question.just so fed up with the guesstimate wars so decided to ask deployment of the wmd"
"was already in one qen and it wasn't nice reading."
"sounds like someone got caught by a gatecampjove should stay out of the game until almost every other idea has been exhaustedby the way, 2 supports and 59 comments... it's clearly our fault for not seeing how awesome your idea is"
"make that 60 comments.seriously, this guy should just leave us alone. go crawl up in the corner and cry all you want after i say this -...wait for it.your idea sucks.there, i said it (although i'ts not like i needed to, everyone else before me pretty much sent the message). no jove, no \"transwarp\", and no malfunctioning stargates. listen, the only one trolling here is you. your idea is almost as bad as your trolling. almost."
"so instead of one gate camp per star gate, we now only need one gate camp on the star?nullsec alliances will love this, i'm sure!"
"that transwarp sucks.. all it does is reduce the stargates to one per system and you got no chokepoints anymore..it sucks.i would buy a version where we could freely warp to any spot on the map and if we can be found at those spots after some time. but i have no clue how to balance that one. and as ed pointed out, this would be a dramatic change to game mechanics and thus has less than a slim chance of being introduced.you're better of getting ideas for a new intel gathering system implemented than a change to travel mechanics. there really stuff is out of wack."
"the fun part is that with the \"your transwarp latch to the nearest star and not the destination star\" part it is possible to have stars that are unreachable using transwarp. then the little \"you warp to a random point within 100 km of a star\" your fleet get scattered on a large area (200 km diameter). place a fleet near the star and fire on the scattered newcomers before they load grid and regroup. great for sniper fleets as a new form of camping (and no gate guns to disturb your killing). coupled with his whines about wtz (and he conveniently forgetting the istas) he sound like a failed gatecamper."
"beautiful... you hit that right on."
"nothing new about gate camps... i've been dealing with them since 2004.they were actually very common in the early years of the game. i'm surprised ccp even keeps their space on the map these days though.well, the vast majority of those comments are trolls accusing me of trolling... which is silly."
"i think you and everyone else needs a refresher on forum terminology. if i was indeed trolling, you could report it and get this thread locked."
"well the idea here is to buff eve unilaterally. and this idea accomplishes that."
"not at all. anyone with a little intellectual capability knows that the details are negotiable, not set in stone.i forget nothing nor do i whine about anything."
"this new t2 medium scout drone can only be fitted on exhumer class ore ships.if the host ship is destructed the surviving drones switch to magnetic mode and attach to the offending ship and then self destruct."
"sounds like a cool ideal"
"everybody knows that pulling level vs out of secure space did nothing to improve lowsec venturing, especially when eve's pvp is so absurdly biased and skilless unless you're fighting a fleet battle.bring back level v agents into highsec.pros:- incentive for new and old players to fleet up and sweat for good isk.- increase gameplay diversity for pve players. i'm a pve only player and i know what i'm talking about when i tell you that level iv missioning gets boring pretty quickly.cons:- none"
"ya know.. i think lvl4s pay too much.as long as missions are static content, you'll always run into this problem of 'getting boring pretty quickly'.also, if you want team pve run incursions in high sec.and, as cons i would list:- people will find ways to run those solo/multiboxing.. even more isk influx- more static content based on the old system which will get boring- risk/reward get's screwed over even more/not supported, use incursions"
"these are pretty much my feelings on the issue. better let things stand as they are now and let the brave keep the lvl5 missions and the rewards. let the pve department of ccp focus on developing new and better pve elements, that preferably also have random alterations to keep people on their toes at least a little bit longer. we should stop relying on current missions for pve content in general and move on to bigger and better things."
"this solution only fixes one symptom, while the disease continues. in order to make missions in low-sec more capable (rather than using unscanable t3s), the mechanics of missions in low-sec needs to change.low-sec needs as much help as it can get, so let it keep the l5s. when ccp fixes the problem, l5s and all other missions in low-sec will be more capable again."
"\"if mohammed won't come to the mountain, the mountain must come to mohammed\" type of logic detected.learn to move through lowsec, it's easy.learn to do missions in lowsec, it's easy and profitable.learn to defend yourself/run away/avoid engagements.learn to fit and fly an unprobable ship, it's very easy.learn to use scan probes and do pve in w-space.in fact, learn to play the game and then ask for something."
"the problem with lowsec is yarrtards.solution = add concord response or make sec status mean somthing more then u cannot enter highsec.lowsec needs help cool, but its dead because of player fail"
"so you want to nerf the people who actually have the balls to run l5s as is."
"how about a decloak bubble?it isnt to powerfull yet would be usefull. same rules as drag bubbles and same mechanics applied. would use the cloaking skill to determine level size and tech level of the decloak bubble. it would be a game changer as well. new tactics, new strategies etc."
"1) put decloaking bubble on gate 2) kill all covops that jump in barely counts as a 'new tactic'."
"yea wow...yer awesome...there are more uses for it than that and it would change things people do in more areas than just a gate or station before you mention that bright idea."
"make it have a diameter of 2000 meters"
"i'd support this. i agree with ed that having gunners there should be a big improvement to the towers performance, but i wouldn't mind making it easier to get those gunners."
"first of all, i want to give credit to maylin li, the originator of the idea of modifying ecm to make it work better in pvp. i thought of this due to her thread, and feel that this would be a more effective way to alter the mechanics of ecm for combat.i was thinking a good replacement for the ecm might be something like a stasis field, where all communications between ships would be cut off (except for modules which release a solid or energy burst or affect only the character's ship - like guns, nos, and sensor boosters). this way, you could block out spider tanking and leadership bonuses from the opponent.this would essentially put the target in a communicative bubble, while still giving him the ability to deal damage and react to it. any constructive criticism is welcomed on this concept."
"ecm is fine as-is, no changes necessary."
"learn to troll, or give up trolling... your choice"
"not the way i'd ago but better than what we've got currently"
"ecm could simply increase/decrease all module cycle times for the targeted ship. this can stack indefinitely without being overpowered, and no need for stacking-nerf rules to apply.the effect means less incoming damage from the enemy fleet, less outgoing repairs, more cap chewed up by mwd/afterburner, and it's all based on activation with no chance-based operation.increase the cycle time on modules where the offensive effect is triggered at the start or end of the cycle e.g.: weapons, neutsdecrease the cycle time on modules where the beneficial effect is triggered at the start or end of the cycle e.g.: reppers, tracking linksdecrease the cycle time on modules where the effect is a property of activation: tractor beams, hardeners, afterburners, microwarp drives, etc.burst and remote burst ecm would have the same effects on all other ships in the vicinity - an ecm equivalent to smartbombs.the proportion of the slowdown will be determined by the current signal strength to jamming strength comparison. a rook jamming a rifter might, for sake of argument, slow offensive cycle times by 300% (i.e.: cut the rifter's dps and active tank to 1/4, multiplying afterburner/mwd cap consumption by 4). that same rook jamming a maelstrom will only slow it down by about 100% (i.e.: cut the maelstrom's dps and tanking to 1/2).thus ecm can still retain the title of \"electronic counter measures\", it just won't have an all-or-nothing effect, and pilots can get caught out by not noticing it's happening (as they currently do with tracking disruptors or cap warfare). pilots can keep shooting stuff, so they don't have to feel like they have their hands tied behind their backs.the downside is that ecm will no longer be useful for getting your freighter out of a gate camp."
"not supported. reason being this is a huge nuke. how much ehp does it cut away with all those modules turned on? will it stack with others?ecm is also a means of escape and the only way to shut off someones scrambler rather than neuting it and waiting for it to cycle out."
"op speaks of changing ecm because it's 'not fun'. like most things, it's not fun being on the receiving end, but much fun delivering it. a module to lower resist is interesting, but it does nothing to any ship that's not taking fire. doesn't lower incoming dps. break rr chains. counter other ewar. get your mate's ratting carrier out when he's scrambled in a belt..resist-reducing modules are already in the db. but they have extremely limited use, and most time something else would be better in that slot. that may be why they were never deployed live."
"ecm is fine how it is now"
"op's suggestion would change ecm from being more useful in small fights and less in large fights to being more useful in large fights and less in smaller ones.i make no comment about whether this is an advantage or a disadvantage, but it will make ganking caps easier, whilst leaving supers untouched. - malc."
"i was thinking about this idea, and honestly i think this is a bit op, but not as much as ecm is currently. if you're suddenly taking 3x damage with one of these on you, it could affect combat immensely, giving a major advantage to the opponent.this did get me thinking, though, and i wanted to issue a new thread with my idea. please review it here and tell me what you think."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so, therefore i support."
"i thought you would ask for autopilot to automatically kill everything in the mission when i read the title"
"i am not proposing anything in particular, this is only to gauge opinion. do sc's need a nerf. yes or no, if yes, type yes and support thread please. if no, then do not support and type \"no.\""
"yes"
"no - swinging the nerf bat generaly just ****es one half of eve off and makes the other happy, we need a new counter to sc not a bat swing"
"no. we do however need more reliable ways to kill them and/or prevent their construction.lot of balancing to be done when it comes to caps vs. caps and caps vs. sub-caps."
"as i understand, the slider lets you set min / max sec. so if you have negative sec status you can avoid systems where you'd be shot by local npc."
"blarg. last try for me."
"this is a great suggestion because it helps both parties. i realize that some people that run missions do not salvage it and just turn the mission in leaving the actual wrecks and loot in their ownership making the ninjas job a pain. extending \"ownership\" of the wrecks(including salvage rights) to the mission runner only while the mission is active and not turned in would solve many problems.i would support a compromise that would make it so that when the mission is turned in the wrecks are considered abandoned. this is an advantage to the ninja salvagers by allowing them to more quickly do their job by allowing them to use tractor beams. it is also an advantage to players and corporations who salvage their missions to gain materials to build rigs. it keeps ninjas out of mission runners hair while still allowing ninja salvagers a clear, safe opportunity to make their own living on abandoned mission wrecks.it's a win win situation."
"great stuff, waiting for more"
"reading csm reports is as if one had been a fly at the wall in the meeting room. i love it !"
"yes, we do have to keep bringing this up.isn't the csm supposed to be the voice of the player? doesn't csm represent the interests of the people paying to play this game? with such a loud and outspoken row from us plebians, it seems their very responsibility to keep bringing this up until either it gets implemented, or nobody cares any more.when i first warped out to my corporation's pos all i could think was \"this is it?\". it is self-evidently in the interest of current players for ccp to look into this. i would argue it's also in ccp's interest as eye-candy attracts new players, and easier maintenance interfaces keep old players from burning out.i fully support this idea, for whatever my support is worth."
"my thought is to not really hurt their survivability or dps, but increase the price of using them in battle, by nerfing fighter bomber survivability. reduce mwd speed. cut the hp in half. bump up the sig radius. also reduce their lock time and sensor strength by a fair bit with the purpose of making ecm bursts a viable defense. finally, increase the drone bay size so they an carry several flights of replacements.sc are big investments, absolutely, so its ok that they aren't going to die all that easily. so instead we make them likely to lose plenty of fighters in engagements. gives an expense to battle with them without greatly increasing the risk of losing them. no sc may be lost during the fight, but a lot of fbs are, and will cost several billions to replace.and you'll think twice about hotdrops if a single on the ball stealth bomber who can respond quickly can cost the operation as much as the target you are going after..."
"except that a 20 man sc blob is 400 fighter bombers at a time. the odds of killing many even with half ehp is very slim unless you bomb them. since we are routinely seeing 40 man sc gangs you would be seeing clouds of 800 fb at a time. again, not going to make a big dent into that before they slaughter your fleet."
"while i have no experience/interest in this ship type, i do have a question on xttz's suggestion.adding a module for af would (perhaps should) be placed hand-in-hand with giving the retribution his 2nd midslot in some form (thereby making it at least passable for pvp). could you get behind this as well?i'll support it (provisionally) as its thought out, and is making a good attempt at full-race balance - something you just don't see enough of here.[btw, i do have a lot of respect for you guys - used to 'fight' some of ya (sa) tooth and nail during sl's early years. anyone there remember plastic duck?]"
"just nerf the damage that fighter bombers do to sub caps, i know this has been done but it needs a little more nerfing.also fighter bombers cannot be used against structures/pos, whoever thought that one up needs sacking.job done.oh and give the hel a resist bonus, or a cap bonus, or something because it is terrible compared to the other 3."
"3 things before i support this simply b/c i hate what supers have become.how do you implement a slot removal on a non dockable ship that wouldn't cause some kind of epic server fail?carriers are a major source of the problem with supers because they can elect to repair other ships both in and out of traige.titans have to be nerfed at the same time or this will just escalated the problem with titans.having said all that, yes, i agree mostly with what you said, but i doubt seriously ccp will be able to implement a proper nerf w/o killing the ship and causing mass emo rage quits.the thing about titans is that by far they are more overpowered than super carriers in large blobs. the only reason they haven't been fully exploited yet is because of the threat of a sc hot drop, and the lower cost of sc to build. the moment sc become less imposing, you're going to start seeing 100 titans in a system as opposed to 100 sc, and then people are really gonna throw up their hands and wonder wtf do i bring against 100 1 shot killers."
"whole supercapital shebang was (and still is) a gigantic failure right from the start, imo. too bad this forum doesn`t have emote :ccp: because that`s what this whole thing is like. i doubt they would be man enough to abolish them from the game, reimburse skills and isk/minerals and be done with it."
"slot removal or at least slot juggling has been done before - the nidhoggur for one switched a midslot for a low, so whatever happened back then to nids that happened to be in space during the patch with too many midslots fitted, would presumably apply again.as long as pilots are warned well in advance that they're about to lose a slot and should get themselves to an sma to refit appropriately the bulk of the active supercarriers will fix themselves, and for the rest it shouldn't be difficult to implement a downtime script which moves one of the excess modules to your cargo or at worst to your home station hangar.i disagree, carriers aren't really a significant factor because they're relatively vulnerable themselves (unlike supercap circlereps which are unbreakable and where every link is megabuffered in its own right). to be honest, if a supercap fleet is reliant on regular carriers for rep support then that's progress from today's state of play, as it means carriers actually have a role to play in fleet combat again other than as a pointless lossmail, and there's an actual strategy for other fleets to take them down by picking at the weak links in the chain, rather than just 'bring more supercaps than the other guy or don't bother'.i actually think that titans are a lot closer to being balanced than supercarriers, not really because of the cost but because of the relative lack of utility slots. supercarriers basically have everything except their tanking layer as a free choice to fit whatever the hell they like, since drones don't take up slots in the same way as a titan's guns and the damage mods for them do, which allows them to omni-fit to counter every scenario they might face. titans do have a particular balance issue with ehp - mostly that when tackled and unable to shake their attackers it has become a viable strategy to ctrl-q and have a reasonable chance that the hostile fleet can't chew through your buffer before you vanish 15 minutes later - but the supercarriers have that same problem. i agree that massed doomsdays against subcap fleets are irritating, but i'm not sure they're game-breakingly so, nor that its all that much worse than massed ecm bursts while fighter-swarming, and it seems to be mostly a problem when the servers are grinding to a halt and the doomsdays are effectively cycling at the same rate as everyone else's turrets (which is a server performance issue and not one of balance)."
"someone suggested a state similar to siege when fighter bombers are deployed, with a little tweak that could be a pretty good way of dealing with the problem at hand:fb's out: * loss of all invulnerabilities. * unable to receive any remote assistance.* -50% sensor strength (drops to carrier level).combined with a reduction of bay capacities so they can't carry a life-time supply of drones, using them would become a lot more \"interesting\"."
"you realize that both triage and siege give the ships full ewar immunity not take it away right?"
"yep, which is why i said \"similar to\". essentially a state change like that given to regular capitals, but in reverse."
"honestly i really don't think anymore root mechanics are what this game needs. the game needs to be more fluid not less."
"right, and if memory serve me correctly, a ship with a module not in the proper place will freeze in space... nids could dock, moms can't. i would guess the problem where a undocked nid got stuck would have been far fewer and less hazardous than 2000 super carriers.also, in terms of titans, they're problem isn't simply limited to sup caps. they're able to instantaneously remove capitals from the field too. every game that's ever come out with an ultimate death gun has always had the issue that it's abused to no end.going old school, look at counterstrike and the 1 hit awp. there's a reason everyone started banning it from their servers.everyone here can list probably 3 games where an ultimate weapon destroyed the game. super carriers were bad... but the moment they get nerfed, you're going to see an explosion of titans unlike what we've seen so far unless they get changed too."
"why is everytime someone doesn't like getting their ass kicked by something in this game they want it nerfed. i hate warp scrams every hardcore pvper in the game has one, but you don't hear me crying to have em nerfed. get some guts, and bring more dps if you want to take one down."
"sorry did a double."
"hello all,as we all know, the next upcoming (third) release of incursions will bring us the new portrait creator, later to be used as 3d character in incarna.the problem that a lot of people are facing is that the new options often don't enable you to make a character that even remotely resembles the face you picked when you made your character. with the fourth installment of the editor, options are even more restricted than they were before and a lot of hair colours, eye colours, hairstyles have been taken away and we're often forced into looks we don't want.now i don't know if ccp realizes it, but for a lot of people the looks of your character are very important. if i pick a space orc i don't want to be forced into looking like an eldar with the next installment, or if i pick a porsche i don't want to be forced to pick a ford because the developer makes some graphical changes. it greatly takes away from the immersion and ability to identify with your capsuleer.so what i want to propose is a free one-time option to change bloodlines with the 3rd installment of incursions.i can understand changing races will have impact on your racial skills, but bloodlines won't have any impact whatsoever since the differences are purely cosmetic. nonetheless, if we'd get an optional racial remap that would even be better, of course!!thanks for reading.edit (thanks jagga spikes): ccp allows for portrait swaps but they have to be of the same race, bloodline and gender. which isn't helpful at all in this case.from portrait swap faq:\"3. why does gender and bloodline have to match when swapping portraits?as bloodline and gender define a lot about your character the portraits that are going to be swapped need to have same bloodline and gender. the swapping is only meant to fix elements you are not happy about with your original portrait creation, it is not meant for gender and ancestry changes.\""
"well that's one vote to start with!"
"i would really have less fun playing eve if i have to look how i don't want to look so that's a yes from me."
"hm.. i think i want that too. just as option."
"i whanna keep my ******ed picture"
"yessssssss!vherorior are unrecognizable in the new editor! i'd like to have a total remake, even another race would be fine!"
"well why not since it doesn't have any effect on gameplay..."
"i'm happy with race, but i'd never have chosen this bloodline as my main-so yes i vote for a change!"
"yes please, vherokior don't look anything like they used to."
"definately worth the support."
"1.0"
"surprisingly enough i think i will for once be happy with my character after these changes, but it has not always been the case and i have felt my starter bloodline choice pretty inadequate in the few last years. so i can definitly understand that."
"flexibility is always good."
"here we go ..."
"and just what do you think the alternative is? [also, you have already seemingly decided how it's going to work and attacked this imaginary implementation, which quite frankly leaves half of your post rather pointless.]if the choice is between \"not being able to do anything and being lag killed after half an hour of waiting for things to load\" and \"actually playing and fighting, but the speed is slowed down\" i'm taking the second option. your \"issues\" are just new gameplay avenues and new tactics.i fully support this idea op, thumbs up."
"we're not children, i can handle seeing a few melons and wangs in my spaceman games.even though this will be veto'd by our corporate \"no fun allowed\" overlords."
"fully supported.(some of you people forgot to check your \"support\" checkbox. go edit it please .)merry christmas"
"ccp plz kill all bots in game!supported"
"agreed. end the botting."
"supported."
"we will see what this will bear. remember that ccp is a company and will go first against what will damage its profits more, i.e. rmt and then what damage it less, i.e. singular players bots. for the same reason they will do a cost/result analysis and when getting one more bot will cost too many man hours of work they will not hunt for it, so we will always have a minimum population of bots."
"here is your update,ccp is in a business. they need to make to money, bots make money. it doesn't matter that pl is running around venal with 100 titans and supercaps made with bots isk, it doesn't matter that the other alliances in the area have a no bot policy.the devs don't care, cuz you guys are totally against a client based warden or bot detection app..soooo.... stfu and deal with the fact they are going to exist in the game even though most of us take the morale high road. your idiots if you think there is any practical and cost effective way to solve the problem. oh ya and not supported- don't waste a revs time"
"1.0"
"i really like the idea but there has to be done something against try and error d-scan warping in a cloaky ship =othats the only problem i seechanged my mindi think its perfectly fine as it gonna take a lot longer than using probes"
"supported. ganking is too easy as it is already."
"if i can recall correctly there is a chronicle explaining why this sorta thing isn't possible.more or less the ships need a \"point of reference\" to warp to/from , something with gravity.stations have special sections that can generate a gravity signature that ships can lock on to and warp to.if that makes senseso with no \"point of reference\" there is no way for the ship to determine how far you are going i suppose.this isn't my opinion or anything, this is just what i read in one of the chronicles."
"adhering to canon doesn't make for fun gameplay.by the way, do bookmarks and fleet members produce gravity?"
"like i said, this isn't my opinion.i was just stating why it works the way it does.now if you want my opinion i'll gladly give it to you.your idea is terrible.what you are asking for is a whole new mechanic that has no other purpose than to create a \"fun\" (as you would put it) cat and mouse game between people trying not to get caught (which with what you are asking will never get caught since they can continually warp around randomly) and those trying to catch and possibly for trying to get a warp in on a gate thats bubbled.and you call that fun gameplay?one can assume the stress load the server would go through constantly creating new grids for the thousands of pilots warping around the hundreds of systems eve has.then again, replying to this post is moot. it will never happen"
"if you can get rid of the probing system and come back to something that involves a player approaching a signature/gate/whatever step by step.. yeah.i would call that fun gameplay.this i would consider real exploration.. nailing down something by scanning for it and approaching into it's vague direction, scanning again and approaching further..the more i think of it, the more i like it.now, the only thing that's missing would be some kind of cool down phase where you had to wait for your warpcore to recharge so that you can jump another time..cat and mouse would be the coolest thing ingame.everytime someone warps to a savespot there is a grid created.everytime a mission deadpsace or an exploration site is spawned a grid is created by the server.everytime i warp to my gatesafespots a grid is created for me.. 1000km away from the gate.where would be the difference in server stress please?"
"^ what he said"
"good idea"
"they do get flagged to you. how it works is you shoot wt, neutral remote reps wt, that neutral now has a 15 minute timer to everyone who was shooting the person he repped. so that's not the problem. the problem is only those actively engaged with the guy he's repping are allowed to shoot him. so if you all switch to the neutral logi, he can jump through a gate and anyone you may have parked on the far side cannot engage without taking gcc since they were not aggressing the guy he repped previously.it is the lack of the 60 second aggro timer that is the problem, not kill rights or gcc. currently, the only way to counter a logi who doesn't try to km ***** is to neut them. ecm pretty much never works as someone always throws a few remote eccm's on their buddies in logis. and you can't kill them since they will simply jump/dock. all you can do is neut them so they can't actually do any repping.so i support this but only if they get 1 minute aggro just as they would get for shooting someone. gcc is not needed."
"1.0"
"true."
"not supported. omen is the ultimate weapon!"
"so, we had two large camps, ones that want to remove local from null, and ones that don't. how about ccp rolls a dice a randomly temporarily (i.e. for a week only) removes local from a random constellation/system/region, preferably npc or uninhabited. then we can see how it goes, and either lay rest to the topic forever, or go on with this. justify it by pesky sanhsas poking there noses somewhere again."
"supported, i love w-hole space because you can actually hunt someone without them knowing your there as soon as you enter system. i hate working outside of the holes because you cant even set up a deacent ambush due to local."
"no compromise, the only people wanting local to stay as is are the people who don't grasp the kind of game eve is supposed to be.all experimenting in a small area will do is **** off thee people in the test zone.do a seven day test across the galaxy."
"as much as i would love a change to the local channel, you simply can't do anything to nerf it until a revamped directional scanner is in place. even still, i would then prefer the local channel to display who is visible on grid with you and that is all."
"i like it"
"thumbs up"
"i like. this is how it should have always been."
"wrong, let's apply some simple logic to your idea.1). think about the basic premise of the game. the setting is what?, 20k+ years in the future in a time/place where science and technology are far more advanced than your reference to \"real life\". this technology includes the ability to utilize molecular engineering, quantum mechanics and nanites to name but a few. what do these technologies do you ask? why they work at the molecular, atomic and sub-atomic levels of matter to repair worn out or rusty parts to new condition, hence the wear and tear is gone, no need to buy another ship or fittings, they have been repaired to smallest scale removing all imperfections. after all if the mechanics can build/repair warp drives, how hard is it really to remove/replace old parts? if you have paid the repair shop to put all new parts on your nearly destroyed ship, the fact that the original parts, that are no longer on it, were bought 60 days ago is totally irrelevant.2). eve is a sci-fi fantasy game, much of what exists or how it works is \"unrealistic\" compared to real life...why? cause it isn't real life! it's a game. some of us are actually appreciative of this fact, that is why we play...to interact with a world, virtual tho it is, where some of the mundane, unavoidable limitations that we must endure every day are mitigated by the vision of what could be...and to see what could be done in some of the \"what-if-we-could...\" scenarios.3). \"this will boost the market & generate a logical isk sink\": this seems to be the actual argument that you are trying to make, and it is mis-stated. many players need to replace ships/mods frequently as it is, often more frequently than is affordable for them. increasing the frequency in which everyone needs to dump their isk to use the gear that they have slaved to train the skills to operate, to acquire the isk to purchase or mined the minerals needed to actually build it themselves is not a feature that i believe many players feel is missing from the game. more likely, many players when forced to grind out the isk needed to actually do something in the game other than put their isk into your wallet will decide that the amount of time that they have to spend \"working to afford\" what they have already bought for no other reason than they have used it, time which they have had to pay real money for or alternatively spent more of their isk already on a plex that they could have spent on gear they wanted, just to be able to log in...would likely leave the game...which would diminish the market, not boost it.is this too complicated to follow? let's try a thought experiment and see how good of an idea it is after replacing a few variables and plugging them into an equation to simulate your proposed changes. here is the situation, you tell me if this sounds good to you...- first, you pay real money for the subscription fee so that you can log into the game. this gives you 1 month worth of time to play, from that month you subtract the amount of time that you need to spend at work in real life to earn the paycheck to pay the bills. next you subtract the time that you have to spend sleeping. next subtract the time you have to spend at the grocery store, fixing your car, housework, and raising a family. this amount of time that is left at this point is the total time that you could spend playing the game, if you did nothing else at all with your spare time. - now with the time you have left available, that you have paid for, so that the game is realistically full of enough maintenance you will need to spend 80% of your \"play time\" working in the game to earn enough isk for you to pay me for the gear that you need in order to do whatever activities it is that you enjoy. the more you enjoy/use something, the more you have to pay me = more of your time spent \"working\" for what you have already paid for & less value to you for your purchase. good plan? if so feel free to sink your isk->my wallet."
"supporting"
"supported, provided that there's a button in the insurance office for requesting a rookie ship in case the player changes their mind after docking."
"god, yes, please. i'm sick of all the damn mails from pend insurance telling me they just gave be a ship that has barely more tank than my pod and that aligns and warps slower than a pod. yeah, that's just what i need.a \"request rookie ship\" button would be very welcome."
"i don't know how hard it'd be to implement an option for this...i imagine you could make a prompt for pod. it'd be annoying but you could have the [] don't ask me again possibly. the problem i see with this is that someone who has this setting may accidentally dock and need a rookie ship (for w/e reason) and not be able to acquire one.i've fallen prey to the laziness of not cleaning up after leaving a station...and it really is laziness. supported because i like being lazy, but good luck on justifying beyond that."
"this idea gets a massive thumbs up from me. no more having to delete the dozens of noob ships on all my accounts would be great."
"caldari work fine i pvp i do believe the only problem might be the pilot.so before you tell someone to gtfo you might want to learn how to fitt and fly.oh an marry christmas"
"i'm not trolling though.:sseriously, i have never called help from anyone in game ever.i feel i deserve something better than a bad kd ratio for this."
"last i checked... this was a mmo and not a mso.i think multiplayer kinda implies something.and i would never solo pvp... there's no guarantees your not gonna get ganged up on.that...is common sense."
"what exactly is your point? i'm not saying, make it so i pwn solo in eve (since i already do that), i'm just saying, if i'm gonna get ganked, at least make them make friends in game first instead of just being able to train an alt and whup my e-honourable ass. you would never solo... why? because you suck that's why, and the only way you can do good is to be with friends and always ensure you have superior forces, right?yes there is no guarantee you won't get ganked, and yes that is common sense, but shouldn't i be acknowledged for my valor in almost always facing off outnumbered (and sometimes still popping the tackler before i blow up)?people look at my kb and think \"oh this guy sucks\" when they don't realize all they do is gate camp and bait.i would just like a little respect! lol"
"why the hell would i waste my time at a gate camp? that's more boring than mining, and less profitable.also, numpty"
"mmo is now many me online"
"wall of text so i didnt bother to read it all, but neuts can be extremely useful in pvp thats why people that know what they are doing fitt them"
"i used to fit neuts when they were taboo. the nos nerf nerfed my neutups."
"i agree that nos isn't that useful anymore and could use a very mild buff to make it a preferred choice over a neutralizer in limited situations, but it was stupidly overpowered the way it used to be and i still hate it with a passion, so i don't really care what happens to nos. it can stay dead and buried in it's grave for all i care."
"nos really could use some type of balance change.maybe make them steal cap regen instead of cap? the enemy player would still have his capacitor buffer but no/less regen cause his ship is feeding yours instead.i bet we might see more active tank pvp ships around if they worked like that. people could fit some gank/ewar instead of a million cap regen mods.just throwing some ideas around."
"there needs to be a way to delete skills you have trained and reallocate the points into diffrent skills like if you trained mining all the way to level 5 when you were new to the game and later on realized what a waste of time it was."
"no.that's your history. you're not bound to the path you did chose though, as you can always train other skills, there is no barrier.live with your choices./no support"
"well what if this was put into place like the annual remap and pilots could only remap their skills once per year"
"this game is about choices. good or bad, right or wrong, you live with the choices you make. eveyone has skills they trained with little fore-thought. i myself have over a million points in industry i'll never ever use again. i got bored with missions and pvp didn't appeal to me at the time, so i hastily repurposed my training and, as things go, i got bored of mining and went back to missioning and now on to pvp. if this were put into place, people would just train the skills that fit their attributes (like perception & willpower) to get the sp quickly and then reallocate those point to the skills they really want and then retrain those skills over again. the only way for this proposal to work would be to prevent someone from retraining a skill, which would then prevent you from changing your path, and that defeats the whole 'sandbox'/choices foundation of eve.sorry, we all have regrets we have to live with. not supported."
"you know, mba, for a while there, i actually agreed with you. however, as i have played this game more and started to understand the long-term nature of this game, i've found the consequences for actions are just as long-term as the skills or anything else of this game.respecs are great for games with a level cap (which is basically every other game out there), but not for eve online because it doesn't have a level cap. your skill points can be 'wasted' at the time, but you'll always be able to train more since there is no level cap. also, you never know when those skills might be useful again, as some alliances may need you to use your skills for specific purposes, such as helping them restock after you have had your fun in a war.now there are some skills that we should be able to respec (salvage drone control, et al), but overall the skill system is fine as is. remaps are a great tool to help you create your character the way you want it.not supported."
"no."
"no one said you had to train that skill in the first place.don't like it... then make a new char."
"your method means a character one year or older, even for a price, could effectively play any part of the game by re-allocating sp to a given profession. absolutely not supported. this change would guaranteed destroy eve as the sp system is the backbone of eve."
"i vehemently oppose the reallocation of skillpoints (certain exceptions apply... i.e. learning skills).why? it would only encourage people to take sp out of ships/weapons that they consider \"subpar\" and put it into ships/weapons they consider \"superior.\" consequently you will have a homogenization of what ships and tactics people use rather than people adapting with different ships and tactics to achieve the same ends.live with the skills you have trained, for better or worse. who knows... they might one day come in handy.personal note: when i first created this toon, i trained him to be able to mine (gasp!!! blasphemy!!)... i trained high enough that he is able to use a retriever. i have since seen the error in my ways and have focused almost exclusively on pvp related skills. however, even i get a bit burned out with pvp from time to time (gasp!! more blasphemy!!!) and go to high-sec to enjoy the company of some carebearing friends. they loan me a retriever, we get drunk, and have a grand old time."
"not supported. this is a terrible idea."
"thanks for this. the doc does some great work and i appreciate your analysis as well.best regards,windjammer"
"my idea proposes increasing the amount of space used in existing systems to promote player interaction outside of gates and stations.in a 20 au a3 grid (i realize grids are probably spheres but for simplicity made them cubes):1au = 149,597,870 km20au = 2,991,957,414 km 20au a3 = 26,783,431,806,485,990,000,000,000,000 km50 areas of interaction x 250 km a3 = 1,953,125,000,000 km5 areas of interaction x 15 km = 421,875kmarea used: 7.2% real area 1.5% (existing space used by players)assuming there are 50 objects of loaded bubbles in a system the area of interaction is only using 7.2% of the entire solar system.assuming a more realistic 5 areas of interaction (2 stations and 3 gates) and the 15km a3 bubble around those objects the area of interaction is only 1.5% of the entire solar system.my idea:create alternate areas of interaction (bubbles) that are stable and linked together by acceleration gate. characteristics:1. they are non-mission deadspace areas containing the usual mission debris and effects (no mwd, natural phenomenon interfering with warp).2. they contain better then average (of the system they are in) assets (npcs, asteroids).3. entry and exit is by an exit entry gate inside the deadspace area. no warp in's no warp outs. so each deadspace would have an entry / exit acceleration gate and one or more acceleration gates which link to other areas (bubbles).4. no cyno in or out except covert / bo's.5. ship restrictions on gates.why?1. space in game is under utilized. 2. pvp fittings and mechanics are not broad enough imo.3. current objects in space (belts, gates, stations) are too close (timewise).4. ease of implementation / elements already exist (acceleration gates, mission specific debris, deadspace areas)5. eliminates some of the overpowering aspects of low sec pvp (hotdrops, instant gang wtz, 150km or less pvp, quick probing)6. if all asteroids were eliminated from normal space and placed in these pockets it would serious nerf macro ratting and mining as no instant warp to pos on nuetrals entering system.the effects of this sort of area of interaction:1. roaming gangs equipped with mwd eliminated. to hunt effectively would require being set up specifically for dead space. 2. warp outs eliminated. to escape from a bubble you would need to ab to a exit gate or to another accleration gate to another bubble. chasing someone would not simply end with a warpout. manual piloting around debris and decloaking against debris would add additional complexity.3. would add additional pvp setup options and fittings. diversity.summary:a series of linked deadspace areas, with warpouts and warp ins, using current ingame elements, opening up new fittings and tactics and restricting certain ship sizes from entering certain areas, opening new opportunities for combat and carebearing, providing a buffer to hotdrops, probing and warp to 0 ganks, exploiting the currently unexploited huge areas of solar systems that are never used and providing more diversity for eve pvp and player interaction."
"example of utilizing one of these systems:i'm in a pvp ab thorax. i enter a dead space area, d-scan and find a hulk / orca team on scan. so i acceleration gate to the next linked pocket. i see the hulk and orca on overview, 200km away and bee line for them (maneuvering around debris) they enter an acceleration gate they were close to. i chase them to the next pocket.when i arrive the hulk orca are half way to a exit gate. i can catch them and scram one before they both leave. however they've called on chat for reinforcements and there's a gang just entering the pocket but they are fitted with mwd and while they are overwhelmingly superior to my thorax they are slow boating. i decide cowardice is the only option so i head for another gate, then another and i'm hidden inside the series of pockets. its not a simple matter of probing me down and warping to zero to catch me, my hunters need to find me.eventually after a cat and mouse game, i enter a pocket and find another thorax sitting near the gate. scramble him, and we start fighting. despite him having now 20 people in the system in fleet, he can't get instant wtz help, his friends must travel to assist him. we go toe to toe and i lose my thorax. bad ending? not really, as current mechanics have it, i would have attacked the hulk and orca at a belt, gang would have arrived within 20 seconds and i would have been dead within another 5."
"flaws:first of the grid system when you cross the border you would not be affected by the areal warp scrambler anymore and could warp out sure that would take you a long time in a ab fitted ship but it would be possible and i don't think thats easy to change as it is a core mechanic of the gamesecondly if pods are unable to warp off too no one would go there because loosing your ship would mean loosing your pod toothirdly the inability of using mwds would totally throw off weapon range balance blasters would be totally useless as you would never get in range in time and it would overall make long range weapons the weapon of choice as the person with the longest ranged weaponry would have the most time to shoot as some one before he can shootalso ccp is trying to remove the mwd restriction off missions anyway soo...despite all those flaws i like the idea of having some static dead space pockets with roids and rats in them also the 'maze' is very nice especially if they are big like 20 different pockets you could even hide some good faction rats in them or something like that just not being able to use mwds is bad also ship restrictions except capitals are not my thing but i could live with it cause big ships allready have their draw backs in speed and agility that would come to play a lot more in such pockets well remove the ship restrictions and the no mwd use and you have my full support =d edit: oh and i think there should be one of those plexes each constellation and they should be low sec only so low sec gains a bit of attractivity and uniqueness"
"to 1.- percentage wise those small deadspace pokets won't put a dent into the utilisation of space- final exits/entrances to those pokets will be camped like gates and \"the sausage dog (inty) going into the labyrinth drives the badger (anything that flees) out\" and will be shot down at the campto 3.- so, by artificially restricting the movements between them you want to add to the game?- i'm with ya on the problem of to high travel speedsto 4.- tbh, i don't like deadspace pokets or those small acceleration gates, as their only use is restriction of access to pve content != sandbox- also this sounds like static content != sandboxto 5.- what do you consider a 'hotdrop'? if you want to remove capitals being cynoed on lone ratters a mobile cyno-jammer will suffice imho- i don't like the whole probing mechanic any more.. read this: [proposal] warp to coordinates tool- instant gang wtz could be restricted by some kind of module that enables others to lock on your position.. otherwise they'll need to 'probe you out as anybody else'.. without module, no wtz on the ship in gangto 6.- wouldn't hurt them much either, disengage and cloak/loggthe whole thing sounds like mini-w-space with crippling restrictions.to 1.what would they look for in those mini-w-space? until you're there it's either cloaked or logged out. only way to get something in there would be to slowboat several cov ops ships through the mini-w-space and tackle so your gang can get there, which will take time, as they don't know which turn you took and where you are in the labyrinth.to 2.finding someone in there or navigating in there would be hell.the only ones who would profit would be ratters (of the npc are any good) and if they can get around there fast enough (slowboating from acc-gate to acc-gate will suck.to 3.no idea./don't like it, sorry. sounds like mini-w-space with to much restrictions on movements."
"ok, so i cannot warp out from your deadspace areas? so what if i take a dramiel and mwd all the way 100k km to the nearest asteroid belt and warp off from there? what if i burn of grd, am i still in your dead space? can i fleetwarp? i mean, it is really full of holes, yes, i would like fights to occur somewhere other than the gates for once, but..."
"crazy ksk:1. crossing grids to warp out - doesn't really matter. the idea is not to make it impossible to warp out of a bubble but rather to make it less likely you can do it instantly the moment something appears when your doing something useful inside. 2. pods could be immune to the warp out effect.3. vaga with ab = 848ms, deimos with ab = 565 (283 mps difference) vs vaga with mwd = 2484, demos with mwd 1657 (827 mps difference). deimos actually benefits slightly with ab fits then mwd fits, has more in range time and has less problems with fitting. tres farmer:1. its not about filling up all of space its about utilizing some of the existing space to make areas of interaction outside of gates and stations. 2. each pocket has an exit entry point. if you have 20 pockets you have 20 entry exit points. a simple scan of an exit gate would tell you if there is a camp and the odds are 20 to 1 (if theres a camp at a gate)that there isn't one there. it would highly unlikely that all 20 gates would be camped.3. its not anymore artificial then the current restrictions on ship sizes using acceleration gates. the game needs to accommodate all styles of play. not everyone wants to play with sc or capitals in low sec when they're in sub-capitals. besides if you wanted to get one in, simply bookmark an off grid close to the pocket and you can warp it there and then cross the grid into the pocket. you just wouldn't be able to run gates.4. they're not mini wormholes. wh's are distinct in that you need to probe them out, they have no local, they have insanely good assets, you can deploy pos, have npc sleepers, cross vast regions of space, find lucrative sites and get rich very fast. they are nothing at all like wormhole systems, they are like shared missions areas without mission objectives.5. \"finding someone in there and navigating in there would be hell\". thats precisely the point. if finding people in there was easy the whole idea would be a waste of time. the idea is not to create another area where you can pop into a system, warp straight to it, kill the bear sitting there like a donkey with a big target on it and then jump to the next system rinse repeat. its about creating a new area of interaction where it takes a little more brain power, little more time and effort to catch people but the benefit is when you do appear they don't warp off instantly. you create something that i think eve is much in need of, chasing people down without playing warp to games.maxsim goratiev:you could cross a grid to get outside of the deadspace area. then warp off. its not much more efficient then heading to a gate though. you can't fleet warp since you can't warp till you are out of deadspace.what holes?"
"ok, humour me.. i'm a carebear now. why would i want to be in one of those pockets in a pve ship?i will upon you entering local either disengage and cloak or logg off. if this happens too often and i make more isk/hr in high sec i won't come.if those counters don't work in there i won't come as there is a big chance of meeting you on the way to the door of that pocket...all you do is create space with only one exit and automatic warpscrambling.people already hate bubbles in nullsec and now you want to bring this stuff to lowsec too?in case you didn't notice.. lowsec isn't void of prey because there are not enough ways to force a confrontation.lowsec is void of prey because the predators are able to roam vast areas in a short amount of time and are very efficient in finding their prey, on top of being able to shut off travel-lanes for anything that's bigger than a cruiser.your pockets wont change that. you slow the predator as well as the prey."
"i think an option to allow drones and fighters attack an enemy's drones and/or fighters would provide some tactical options available. however, balancing the ai on how it should be done could be tricky, but i'll put forward the following:1. underneith 'engage target' is an 'engage target's drones' option. this can include fighters.2. add a flight pattern flag to 'defend against attackers' which means that while drones are under attack they can stop their task to destroy other attacking drones. if off, they will ignore attackers and continue their original command (useful for fighter bombers).3. add another flight pattern flag, 'defend target drones' which can allow your drones to defend against attacks to other drones.is there anything else that could be added, and what flaws, outside of increasing drone loss, would there be?"
"supported.configuring overview to show drones is a huge problem so i like this idea. i would say just expand the aggression options. have an option for 'attack ships', 'attack drones', and 'attack all' in the drone options. this would be good for small gang/solo work.however, in a battle with 5 ships or more it is highly unlikely your drones would attack the 'correct' enemy drones, meaning you still must target. to solve this, i'd propose that, as you mentioned, a 'defend' command in the shortcuts. i would make this a 'soft-lock' command:1) select the target you want drones to defend.2) command the drones (right-click or shortcut) to defend.this is different from other drone commands as it does not require a target-lock. the drones would then focus on enemies attacking the designated target. obviously selecting an enemy does nothing. coupled with the original 3 options on drone tactics i mentioned earlier, you could use your drones to focus on enemy ships or enemy drones attacking the target you wish to defend. if you have the \"all\" option selected, the drones will then attack whatever the ai initially deems appropriate, much like the current 'aggressive' mechanic.i also support an \"engage target's drones\" command. excellent idea watson! again, this requires no target lock but it also means that your drones arbitrarily choose which enemy drone to engage...which means that pesky ewar drone may be the last one on the hit-list!these extra drone commands could really make drone boats much more interesting and tactically useful (not that they aren't now mind you) in fleet battles."
"please correct me if i'm wrong, but can't you do this by targeting the drone and then telling your drones to engage target?"
"sounds interesting, would be fun being in npc 0.0 again"
"hi been away for a while cant log in for a fewdays just came back from work after beeing gonefor a bit offshore"
"everything looks fine to me.also, moved from assembly hall."
"what:we build on planets.we want to make isk.sanshas abduct people from planets.can't be good for busyness when someone jacks all your workforce from low orbit! how about we make incursions and abductions of human population destroy or damage infrastructure on the planets? why:when you ruin people's busyness, they get ****ed. when they get ****ed, interesting things start happening. i can already see someone dd'ing sansha rats :dthis will give more reason to organized entities (alliences and good corps) to fight sanshas."
"tenativly supported, though i imagin that this end of content will show up when dust comes out. i am thinking that sansha incursions are going to be a bit of ground lvl pve content."
"cool"
"the redeemer?are you perchance making fun of the amarr black ops battleship?i suppose it would be appropriate."
"i run lvl5's in low sec all the time solo. your lack of balls and skill is your own problem, ccp should not wreck the incomes of those who actually adapted to life in low sec so you can farm isk easier. and let's face it, that's all any level of mission is for. missions are boring, repetitive, mind numbing exercises. they exist to generate lp and isk out of thin air. you might as well ask for null sec's famous sanctums or sleeper sites in high sec. tbh, the sanctums are probably more up your alley. they give liquid isk, lvl5's pay almost exclusively in lp so you need to put a little effort into getting a good isk/lp return for it to be any good.not supported."
"supported.low sec is a worthless wasteland and moving l5's there did not change that, but basically made quite interesting pve content unplayeable.lo sec is fundamentally flawed and nothing is gonna get people there as long as those fundamental flaws are not adressed.either add concord, make gate guns do something (anything at this point) or get rid of combat probes.at any rate, high sec needs more content and there is no reason to throw this content into a garbage can."
"i rather like my \"garbage can.\""
"pve content in a pvp based sandbox game is for isk fountians only. while i can see that it is needed it needs to limited. i personally believe that lvl 4's should have a 50% chance of ending up in lowsec, or a complete overhaul of the missioning system needs to be done to eliminate botting.my personal idea is have each agent come out with a limited amount of missions per day, each mission will become available at different times during the day and anyone in the station can accept the mission. once the mission is accepted no one else can accept it, then it operates as a normal mission. lvl 1 missions should have the most amount of missions to run, and the number of missions available to each agent decreases based on lvl and quality.but thats just my 2ccgerrick palivorn"
"i believe this issue has been refered many times. this is just a basic design failure, makes people spamming click \"show info\" to check if they misquoted an original blueprint.for example. the original blueprint will have a name like \"heavy missile launcher i original blueprint\" , and the copy will be named \"heavy missile launcher i blueprint copy\". is this technically available? it did took me a month of time to distinguish them when i just started to play this game, and have heard lots of people got scamed or sell bpo among bpcs because of this faiulre."
"i can't be the only one who's sick of the contracts spam in local. scams or bots or not, it's a nightmare. and most of them are bots or alts, so i can't block them all. i'll spend more time blocking people in local than playing the game. surely that can't have been the mechanic that ccp wanted when they changed the escrow system to contracts?i say either disallow contracts in local, or add a cool-off timer for local-posted contracts to reduce the spam."
"solutions:1) minimize local in hubs2) move out of congested areas/travel routes3) ignore it while open..only point i can see valid would be the reputation of ccp in the eyes of a noob, as those don't know what's going on and it just looks bad./not really supported"
"they can. they do set the restriction timer on this forum.but for some reason they don't do the same in eve, dislike other games. i can't understand the reason hope that wasn't just forget or simply want to make an only different."
"well i was wondering similar. there are people who are perfectly happy with their avatar pic. so i can understand the thoughts about getting a scheme to transfer your avatar.but on the other hand. ccp is packed with work to get this thing done. if you havent seen any support on sisi there is likely nothing that will help you doing this automatically. the only thing you can do is, get your picture out as good as you can (maybe from account mgmt) and remodel it with this picture so it looks similar.at least one shouldnt be forced to change it at first opening of the program, which i think is taking care of by showing just a \"!\" if you dont do it immediately.get your picture - think thats the only base youll get."
"the cruor/ashimmu suck compared to the bhaalgorn, and it's not hard to figure out why. the bhaalgorn gets a web range bonus, and this means that faction webs scale nicely up to the range of heavy neuts/faction warp disruptors, and this is easily within the range of scorch ammo, providing awesome dps.proposal: change the web velocity and neut strength to a neut range and web range bonus on the ashimmu, and perhaps the cruor (the cruor would still be ****).why? serpentis ships already have web strength bonuses, and this would bring the ashimmu and cruor in line with the bhaalgorn. it would also make the ashimmu a viable counterpart to a curse. ashimmus would no longer be crappy ships that are worth nothing because they suck. the ashimmu shouldn't have to be a close range brawler type ship, since it has no hope of outputting the amazing dps of a vigilant, and yet this change would make it so that it could be a mid range ewar support."
"not supported. here is why.the ashimmu is a superb tackle cruiser as is. the 90% web combined with 3x bonused medium neuts will bring anything to a dead stop almost instantly. it is in fact the single best anti-frigate ship in the game because of this. yes, it beats the curse in that role. it does mandate the use of a faction web but a little bit of faction should be considered standard on any t2/faction ship above frigate hulls. although a range bonus would be interesting, i think you're proposal would actually be a nerf to the ashimmu. 18km webs are more than sufficient when they drop the target to only 10% of it's speed.you must also keep in mind that the curse is a nano-shield buffer kiting ship. it uses td's and speed to evade damage. the ashimmu is an armor tanker and it's relatively slow for an armor tanked cruiser at that. so like the pilgrim, it has no business kiting, it's a brawler. get in close and pin them down hard for your buddies. the ship has a wonderful role that is really unlike any other ship i've seen. it would be nice if people like you would stop asking for it to be turned into just another curse. we already have that ship, variety is good. and i like the ashimmu better than either the curse or the pilgrim. it has better ship bonuses.the cruor is another matter however. the cruor fails hard but not because it's bonuses are bad. the problem lies in slot configuration and pg/cpu. it can't fit a mwd, disruptor, web, cap booster, af+ level buffer and pack neuts at the same time. in fact it fails on the midslots immediately as it only has 3. so even if it had the cpu/grid for all that, you still couldn't do it. the ship is subpar because of a ridiculous slot layout and terribly anemic pg/cpu for it's ship bonuses. like the ashimmu, the bonuses themselves are just fine for an epically overpowered tackle frigate.it is in fact the bhaalgorn that's a bit odd for the blood raider line. however their choice of a web range bonus is appropriate for it. as you said, some mods are sized, others are not so the frigate/cruiser bonuses don't scale well at bs level. hence the standard neut bonus since they are sized but a different web bonus because those are not. in any case, the bhaalgorn actually fills the exact same role as the ashimmu. it's a super heavy duty tackler. no, you don't tackle vagabonds with it. but it is really good at tackling bs's and killing capitals (via capping them out)."
"in theory maybe, but the scenario i described is how they would be used 99% of the time, because its the easiest and most obvious."
"a decloaking bubble.....newflash, how about dropping a regular drag bubble then pop out a handful of jet cans near the perimeter to decloak anything that get snared by the bubble. commonly used tactic, however it does take the extra effort of actually jetting a couple cans.come on man, ccp can't do everything for you. sometimes you just have to work for your kills."
"protip: its called pos gunners."
"+1i'd love to see jita become lowsec (maybe null with the amount of traffic it gets )"
"supported."
"yes, please."
"some good views expressed.how about setting insurance like rl, not based just on the ships value, but based on the record of the pilot. if you've never lost a ship you get 100% back, but for each ship you lose per (week/month/year?) your insurance return is reduced by x?%.how about insurance on clone implants?how about insurance on fitted mods?how about increasing insurance premiums/lowering payouts when at war?imo, remove all insurance from the game. for noobs it would be a learning experience and would only take them a short time to recover their losses and may even encourage them to make friends sooner. for older players, it wouldn't make much difference really - even with insurance, it doesnt even come close the cost of the rigs/mods installed.supported only to get the whole insurance system looked at."
"^^ that's what i like to see, too. 100% agreed."
"ccp's (rather faux) argument against getting rid of insurance altogether has always been the same old \"but think about the noobs!\" mantra. so, why not make insurance a noob feature you lose after, say, 2 months. which is to say, when you start as a noob, ccp covers you for a period of two months, and then you can't insure your ships any more, ever (kinda like losing rookie channel after 30 days).as has been pointed out already, insurance for older players is pretty useless anyway: with rigs and t2 stuff, there's just no point bothering to get insurance any more (especially since it expires as well)."
"er, so that freighters aren't effectively invulnerable in hi-sec?"
"no, not invulnerable, but.... it should cost you. yeah, that's right, that's the crux of this whole thread: if you want to suicie gank, go ahead, but you should come out bleeding (at least, ship-cost wise; what you make in loot is another story). but the idea that you can just suicide gank people, and have ccp pick up the tab, that's just carebear pvp-ing extraordinaire."
"so your idea of piracy is that is should make the pirates a loss? yeah, lots of risk for the freighter in that situation still, the answer to this proposal is the same as it always is: if you want to change insurance on the grounds of \"realism\", then lets balance that by changing concord on the same basis. concord should be just like real cops, maybe not always turning up, certainly taking more than 30 seconds to appear, not always getting their guy, sometimes being overpowered, and sometimes being corrupt enough to take a brible to look the other way.if you want more realistic insurance, i want more realistic concord. i'd be more than happy to support the proposal if amended with that trade off."
"whether or not piracy should be at a loss largely depends on what you're ganking and the loot you get (and thus, indirectly, on the skills of you and your ganking gang). you shouldn't get your ships reimbursed, is the point, though. because now you basically have concord subsidized ganking/piracy, which is lunacy, really. he's not the one engaging in piracy. :) and besides, there's still, and always, great risk involved for the freighter pilot: barring shield-implants and the like, he cannot fit anything to tank himself -- what it takes to kill him, ehp-wise, is just a tab on the freighter info-sheet away. nor can he prevent his cargo from being scanned.nah, i want insurance changed based on the grounds of subsidized piracy being silly. it's the ultimate pirate wet dream, i get that. sometimes it's time to wake up, though."
"the freighter pilot is getting massive subsidies. free stations, free protection, free cyno jamming..."
"here is my proposal either fix insurance all together or get rid of it all together.reason 1. instead of being based off the market value it is based of the mineral value. which if you have a faction ship you might as well not by insurance and keep it docked.reason 2. suicide gankers and criminals constantly engage in activity that could lead to the destruction of their ship. insurance should be higher and pay less in these circumstances based off of sec status. you could say it is a new risk assessment system.for wars and null sec higher priced policies could be implemented, and without them you not get paid for the loss of your ship even if you already had insurance."
"bring back the titan aoe dd weapon."
"if you took a moment to read the thread you would see its not just a whine thread. but i am sure the honourable entropraetorian aegis fields many supercaps and thus is aware of their power in large numbers and how game breaking it can become"
"this thread is not about titans. also aoe books day was fine. the problem was when it was 3-5 aoe titan doomsday days at once. a lot of alliances just started relying on quad aoe dds to fight everything. it was dumber than a box of ****.back on topic, i do like the idea of swapping the bonuses for drone amount of the super carriers and drone control units. the dcu would need to be made a fully passive module though. imagine the lag and then your dcus stop cycling. i never understood why they made it an active module. it doesn't even use cap."
"i am a cap pilot and i approve this message o/"
"i own a nyx. they can delete it for all i care, also they can delete titans while they are at it, ...and jumpbridges, and cyno gens, and cyno jammers, and jump freighters (i have 2).no, i wouldnt want any refund. better game would be my refund.*keeps dreaming*"
"yep"
"yes, yes and yes?!"
"this option should definitely be given. the starting attributes of all the races have now been equalized.so i see no harm or game breaking changes if they simply allow us to change our bloodlines/race. i say let it be an option."
"signed"
"supportedi'd be surprised if ccp hadn't thought of this, but i've not tested the new character creator yet. it would certainly seem unfair that your character's blood-line (effectively only meaningful for rp and looks now) is set in stone such that you may be 'dealt' a creator that has features you don't like.first: can you currently pay for a changed portrait? (iirc, the answer is no but i've never looked into it)if you can: no problem, this should be easy to do much like a 'remap' for your attributes.if you can't: the system doesn't currently exist to transfer the id of a character to a new creator and would need to be developed.i'm all for this and i would hope that this issue has already been taken into account by ccp. +1 for making sure?"
"no name change, no bloodline change, no race change - e-bay less."
"you can, but i have no idea if you can change your portrait to another race. (i doubt it.)regardless, supported."
"totally supported. if not race (which should totally be allowed, imo), then at least bloodlines. they serve only aesthetic purposes now instead of mechanical ones, so there's really no reason for forcing us to deal with whatever we get."
"to the best of my knowledge, the current option in 'account management' allows you to swap portraits from any character to any character, so i don't see any reason why you couldn't 're-make' yourself with a picture from another race...if i'm wrong about this, someone please, let me know!"
"bold underline (1) there is actually a large amount of lore in this game and a very active rp element - it is far more then aesthtic for some people.bold underline (2) - whatever we get? you chose your race an your bloodline, so you did not 'get' anything, you 'selected' it. you make it sound random when its not. and if you bought your character - then you also choise to buy that race and bloodline.srsly, the only people who support this bought their characters and want to change stuff because they are unahppy with what they choise to buy. if you want another race, name, bloodline whateve - train one."
"from portrait faq:\"3. why does gender and bloodline have to match when swapping portraits?as bloodline and gender define a lot about your character the portraits that are going to be swapped need to have same bloodline and gender. the swapping is only meant to fix elements you are not happy about with your original portrait creation, it is not meant for gender and ancestry changes. \"assumptions for choice of bloodline is gone. attributes are skills are effectively equal. unless we get to re-choose bloodline, we are forced to have what we don't want.other option would be to allow more variety within bloodline. a lot of facial features are hard-coded and can't be modified through customization. while this may be fine from lore point of view, it fails to satisfy player's expectations.personally, i'm satisfied with sebiestor new looks, but vherokior leaves me wanting something else. try as i might, i can't get where i want it."
"noyou get to re-make your portrait but you can't actually change who/what you are."
"point 1 - fair enough, i'd agree with that.point 2 however - have you tried the new generator? the point is a lot of us (i) chose our avatars based purely on aesthetics, and with the new generator the look of some bloodlines changes drastically, so that you cannot create anything even remotely like your original look.for those that rp, we're not asking for a forced change lol, you can keep your current bloodline if it suits you, but those of us the created an avatar for a specific look want to be able to keep it... or at least something close.p.s. i have never bought any characters. also posted with the wrong char... should have been kechanski, doh."
"portrait is part of identity. ccp will be changing what we are, one way or the other."
"i support change of bloodline and/or change of race with incursion part three."
"you've got my vote for sure-they need to think this one thro very carefully or they will lose players for sure-if they can put together such a sophisticated character creator-giving us a bloodline change is simple surely-after all if you guys have been mucking about making & trashing new chars for the hell of it like i have-where on the start screen we choose gender/race/bloodline-surely the simplest thing to do is to treat us is if we're all new characters, so we all re-choose-gender/race/bloodline etc-seemples!! most people will want to stay the same i'd imagine-especially if they give us enough options on appearance, but others like myself definatly would change-all bloodlines are now essentially the same with regard to attributes etc, from the start-new players will be fine, but older players will feel very annoyed/frustrated, when we've invested a lot of time & effort into a particular character, then get ****ed of every time they have to look at a portrait that is simply not the person that know they are if you see what i mean-listen ccp! please!"
"not only does your post look like a big brick of text, you also did not select the \"i support this idea\" button./signed"
"you're using 'immersion' as an argument to support changing race or bloodline in order to look more l33t? really?"
"supported, and i'd go one step further and suggest not only doing this but allowing the changing of race, gender, and such as well, and, adding in the other races and bloodlines belonging to the various factions. most people when they first made their character went with the that race/bloodline because of the minmaxing it allowed, and with the addition of neural remaps, and the new player changes. the stats we've chosen are effectively nothing but aesthetics, meaning there's no need to balance all the races against each other and more can just be added. like, right now nikita is ethnic gallente with the miner background, and while she definitely has some gallente in her, with her upbringing, and backstory, (she's a mutt, and was raised in curse) it'd make more sense for her to at the very least be immigrant ancestry perhaps going as far as becoming sebiestor or thukker."
"i support this"
"i am giving support to the idea!!!this would be great so that we can actualy look like we want to and not like we must to...ppl who start playing after this expansion can choose how they will look like in future and we older players are stuck with look that design team give us...i hate new look how this my char will look like after expansion... its one ugly old man look... :/and i think many ppl feel the same...there is one old latin saying:\"de gustibus (et coloribus) non est disputandum\"rough ranslation: \"theres no arguing about tastes and colors\"if old latins knew that, what one person like other can hate... we can hate look of char that design team like...so please let us choose how we will look"
"just saw the new character creator and i'm reaaally regretting not being a lady character"
"if ccp wants to drastically alter the appearance of our characters, they better damn well give us the option to choose what they look like."
"stop sweating so much-well i am at any rate-not sure how they will square this for people with no free char slots-but i read this today on the account management pageimportant information regarding character portraitseve online: incursion will soon allow players to update their portraits using the new carbon-based character creator. while the paid portrait swap service will remain available for those who still would like to swap a portrait prior to the expansion's release, we strongly recommend waiting for the expansion when such a change can be made free of charge.if you have not yet seen what the new system has in store, we encourage you to read torfi's blog, introducing the character creator or to try out this amazing new feature first hand on singularity, our public test server.hopefully this means our fears are groundless & our frustrated tears will dry! lol"
"i don<U+FFFD>t see the slightest indication that my suspicion is needless. they just say that swapping `old style` portraits isn<U+FFFD>t very good idea now we get new ones very soon. not a word on races or bloodlines and not in the threads where these concerns are voiced either; ccp and the csm seem to ignore the topic thus far."
"my proposal blaster change:* dps is ok (at least on paper)* 30-40% tracking boost (it has the shortest weapon range! => it should has superior tracking)* 10-20% gallente ship speed boost (it has armor tank! => it should be able to approach fast)* 10-20% blaster turret pg requirements decrease. amarr ships have a lot of pg, autocannons have tiny pg requirements - gallente do not have so much pg on ships and blaster turrets require too much pg."
"totally supported as a dedicated missile user. i'm tired of seeing missiles launch from the centers of my ships."
"glowey dot moves to red cross for epic damage!they need to be redone, every cool screenshot of eve has lasers in because they are the prettiest of weapons. re-do missiles so we have other pretty stuff to look at... and nerf lasers"
"aye they do look a little small."
"yes, larger carriers"
"/me does not supporti'm not the first to say it, but i will happily re-iterate the right (not the easiest) thing to do: buff and balance all the other faction frigs!if the dram has a special place in ccp's heart and is destined to be the 'best' frig out there, that's fine... but lets see if we can get the other faction frigs a bit more polish, so maybe they can fight their way out of the dram's shadow?/me would support *that*"
"i hate when i get in my fractional frigate, the dramiel, only the find that part of it is always missing! wthyou can't balance a faction ship by artificially reducing the cost of a specific hull, you would have to adjust the prices of the entire pirate faction frigate linup. if you tampered with the lp costs of bpcs and the loot tables to make all the faction ships more expensive, the most popular of them would still cost the most."
"**** nerfing the dramiel...every one of those i've engaged in my jag i have beaten...it is only as good a frig as the cynabal is a cruiser.it's good at running away from the best frigs and that's it, sure that makes it good for solo but goddamn that doesn't mean it needs a nerf. the reason it's so popular is the same reason the rifter is so popular - all the people who suck start shouting \"hey this ship is best for solo its better than any other frig use it for solo!!\" and all the ******s who follow fotm **** will use it. and after that anyone you ask which is best will yell out that ship. then you go why? and they go because of barrage or some other bull****.not that i actually care... go ahead and nerf it itll just make them easier to kill before their friends show up.edit - maybe get rid of the drone bay, that's probably what gives it that edge people see."
"massively supported.-1 medium slot would balance the ship with other faction frigates while not making it just another firetail.also of course an assault frigate would beat dramiel or any other t1 frigate, that's what they are for."
"the sooner people like you figure out that faction ships aren't t1 the better, and the sooner you realize that if i flew a dramiel it would wreck a jaguar every time the better.the dramiel is better than the jag but not by much, it's just that the idiots who fly it suck ****."
"i was kind of annoyed that i couldn't use repair drones on myself. i support this. players will have a choice; armour/shield tanking with drones for the sacrifice of not using combat drones for higher dps"
"supported except the assist command - it would trivialize drone usage for botters and boxers.add some drone controll buttons in the hud (mentionned in a thread, too) and i'll be pretty happy!"
"bump"
"i love this idea.while we're at it, can we apply the same principles to rails, seeing how they are the long range equivalent?"
"bump"
"hybrids need looking at. blasters arn't worth getting into range for often enough with the problems that come with being in close range (web/scream/neut/nos/no escape/etc). rails are just terrible for their fitting requirements."
"dunno if i support this...but what you are asking for actually already exists.probes. they use this exact system. effectively you are calling for being able to 'drag' your ship to a given point via mouse and then warp to that predetermined point, just like you align and position probes now. so getting it to work shouldn't be that hard to incorporate as the idea already exists in game.the only thing you're adding is a coordinate system, which likely also exists in eve but just isn't part of the current ui. in other words, the systems have a coordinate-grid in place for the purposes of programming, but it isn't actively shown on your map. the addition of the coordinate system for targeted ship warp would be icing on the cake really, as mouse-drag works fine. however, the coordinate system would prove useful for probing in that you could numerically position probes 'perfectly' in a desired formation.as for d-scan being used in conjunction with this as a tool to bust safe-spots (you know the direction and range, but can't warp that way) the accuracy of d-scan compared to the sheer scale of eve's systems means that it would be incredibly difficult to warp within range of the grid of a player. so i doubt this would be a problem and it wouldn't render exploration obsolete as the accuracy of probes far outstrips the accuracy of d-scan."
"would be nice to remove the hassle of creating safe spots. (warp between celestials and drop a book mark, then warp to book mark and warp to a 3rd celestial and drop a bookmark ultimately creating a safe spot that is not inline with any object)friendly gameplay is fun gameplay."
"yeh, when we save bookmarks, we do get the coordinates displayed ... why not the ability to edit them ?"
"at present, if you go to neocom > people & places > places [tab] > add bookmark [button], that will already show you the coordinates of your location at the time you pressed \"add bookmark\". (if you're moving at the time, then these will not be the coordinates of the bookmark if you then click \"ok\".) as it turns out, positive-x is (i'm tempted to say) west on the mapbrowser, positive-y is above the ecliptic plane, and positive-z is south on the mapbrowser.well, to start tracking someone down once you have them on directional scanner at all, one could feasibly narrow down the angle to 5 degrees and then narrow down the range to however much they're moving around: to within 1 km if they're not moving at all, to within 250km or so if they haven't left grid, to within 50,000 km or so if they're jumping acceleration gates in a mission. the tangent of 5 degrees is 0.0875, so if someone is at maximum d-scan range (2.147 billion km) and you narrow them to within 5 degrees, then that's precise to within 188 million kilometers.what a hunter would do next depends upon how the coordinates would be specified for an arbitrary warp.if coordinates for an arbitrary warp are specified by placing a probe-like marker (or by launching a probe and then warping to your probe, which would probably not be allowed for probes outside the deepsafe nerf barrier), then moving a probe-like marker one pixel on the solar system map at maximum zoom-in is about 50,000 km or so, depending upon screen resolution. he/she would have to eyeball the angle, then eyeball the position of the marker. the resulting warp won't be as precise as the 5 degrees to which one can narrow down a directional scan. eventually, though, you'd be within a million km and would have to resort to dropping midwarp bookmarks on all sides of the target to get at it without probes. in this case, i'll say that the accuracy of probes outstrips the accuracy of an arbitrary warp.however, if coordinates are specified by allowing the hunter to type in numbers for coordinates, or to edit the coordinates of a bookmark, then only the angle needs to be eyeballed. anyone who's decent at estimating angles by sight will probably estimate the angular measurements correctly to within 30 degrees. then, it's just a matter of plugging his/her current position and the estimated angle into a spreadsheet to get the coordinates they should type in for an arbitrary warp. because typed coordinates can be precise to the meter and directional scan is precise to the kilometer, they can get on-grid in this manner as long as the target isn't moving very much. if the target is inside a mission deadspace (which is much larger than a grid), then the hunter will hit a point where his/her warp will get redirected to the warp-in point of the mission. it then becomes a matter of following the acceleration gates.if arbitrary coordinates are specified by typing a distance and pointing the camera, then it becomes even easier, since you don't have to eyeball the angle at all. just narrow someone down on directional scanner as best you can, then specify an arbitrary warp in the direction you're looking and at the range of your d-scan setting, then repeat. no spreadsheets or guesswork necessary, you could bust a safespot in minutes.i guess what it really comes down to is the precision allowed in an arbitrary warp."
"i proposed this idea back in 2004, :p. i got trolled back to battlefield 1942."
"shame works.troll them, have ppl on their own side get upset at how they're killing the fun, make everyone see them as less then uber.this is part of what forced all the logi on amarr/matar side to join up."
"+1purge the coward pilots, who trying to hiding behind neutrals.if those neutrals want to fight, join to militias."
"ok, i've been messing with the character editor, and three things struck me:it is a titanic effort by ccp and seems to me that it would go to waste if everyone only used it once.messing with you characters is funyou should be able to change portrait background, pose and makeup quite easily (makeup for men and all hair colours please? whycan only girls be colourfull) we should be able to change facial expression on the portrait every five minutes if we feel like it, and maybe the hairstyle and clothesyou should be able to change some of your body features for a fee, maybe every time you get a new clone or something. supportif you want to be able to mess with character editor more often. if ccp did put so much effort into it, might as well make good use of it!"
"suicide gankers enjoy concord protection. you see a scanner and a bunch of boosted phons, you know what they are are what they're about to do. outside of concord-land, you'd be on top of them trying to get under their tracking. but can't do that here, of course, as they enjoy concord protection, until the moment of their choosing, when they've lined up their volley, at which point it would too late.proposing abolishing concord protection for people who suicide ganked more than a set number of times (only kills that trigger km, not accidental shots resulting in concord). they no longer enjoy concord protection, against anyone in highsec, either permanently or for a long period of time. with a unique color to identify them as such. anyone can attack them when feel threatened or just feel like doing it, without being concorded. of course, with the knowledge that they may shoot back in defence, but that's just choice and consequence. this status is independent of sec, cannot be ratted back up, does not involve npc policing, only dependent on player initiatives."
"supported. with a few changes (like, making them red on the overview as if they were outlaws or looters), this would make killing missionbear isk farmers that much easier."
"if they decide to shoot the ganker without refitting, that's an active choice on their part, as opposed to having no choice of defending oneself against concord protected gankers."
"choosing to shoot a ganker and maybe losing your boat while at it would be your choice and your consequence. not being able to defend yourself against concord-protected suicide gankers while getting butt-****d would be no choice for you and no consequence for them."
"so on the actual op's topic...which has nothing to do with whether or not you support 'no local'...this actually sounds like a great idea. it'd need big player support, but why not? also known as bipartisan, though if you're american, that word is foreign to you possibly... (i'm american, so calm down folks)i'd like to see several constellations, or even regions, of nullsec go 'dark' (no local) for a week. maybe just the whole thing to ensure everyone gets a taste. it needs to be done on sisi though, not tq.let's just test it: no local for a week. people who support it may go 'holy **** this sucks', and vice versa for opponents. using sisi doesn't hurt anyone and the players can see what it would be like. that's what a test server is for anyways...testing. for one thing, trying it could inspire ccp or the player-base to find a different, not yet discussed solution in the event no-local ends up being a flop.on the aforementioned need for a new d-scan, yeah we need that too...but that needs development whereas this idea is more straight-forward (though i dunno how hard it'd be to implement? you lock players out of rookie help, so i imagine you can 'lock' local channels too?)."
"people living in w-space don't use local for intel at all.."
"not supported. if you want no local, go to whs. eve is about freedom and choice. some place have local, some do not. you have the choice of where to roam. it would be the same as bringing concord to null, majority of playerbase are carebears, and would love it, doesn't mean it should be done."
"they are not sold for 2-4 years of prospective profit. the presumption is that the t2 bpo will be able to be sold at at least the same price as purchased for. noone will sell their t2 bpo for less than they purchased it for, so the argument that they purchase with the intention to cross cost with profit is bs.t2 bpo are a way of making profit in eve with a very very high cost of entry system whereby you are, atm, gauranteed to return your whole inital investment when you exit (sell the t2 bpo).so dont try and confuse the stupid with garbage saying that the initial cost of the bpo should be recovered as profit, thats not how it works.... the copyright on the bpo doesnt expire after 50 years or something, or depreciate in value(unless ccp nerf in some way).in no way should t2bpo owners be ripped off by the removal or addition of, but the situation of t2 bpo owners having an unfair advantage over other players should end.without a level playing field re t2 production(where t2 bpo exist) players will continue avoiding invention for mods except where there is a clear under supply and an actual profit can be gained (time is money, spending 100 hours mining the resources yourself is not free).i can see that many t2 bpo will be used not for market sales, but for corp/alliance war machines, this is just as bad as controling a market with least cost of production mods.i vote remove with compensation. if the compensation damage is too high, ccp should buy t2 bpos when they go on the market at least."
"say that to the guys that have brought the astarte bpo before the nerf. there is no guarantee that you will get back you investment as a simple change in some module can change the profit and so the return.that said every bpo, t2 or t1 can be sold after purchase. so when you buy a t1 bpo you don't consider it an investment and you don't want to get what you did pay in a reasonable timeframe?i have brought a noctis bpo and i have already got back my initial investment in a month, something that i can't do with a t2 bpo."
"absolutely not.if you want a t2 bpo, grind up the isk and buy one.i can invent whatever i want, wherever i want and as much of a certain thing as i want. added on to that, i didn't have to make a massive investment to be able to do that as well."
"definatly thumbs up!"
"make it to structure and ill support it(say a small % per month upto say 50% total hull loss), but not armour. or just use visuals :p i wouldnt mind a little bit of rust around the edges of my tengu hehe."
"i don't see this as being an improvement to the game in any way except the 'realistic' department, and given that the sun bounces my orca into epic speeds, i doubt that department actually exists.in all seriousness, no. this is not wanted by enough players, it is far too difficult to implement into the database if i had to guess, and most importantly, it penalizes pilots for flying well - pve and pvp. not everyone loses their faction ships every two..four...twenty? battles.as it stands the market does not need a boost so far as i can see. some modules and ships do poorly, but that has more to do with balancing them in combat. i wouldn't say the game is in serious need of isk sinks either, rather it would probably be more prudent to reduce existing faucets (incursion penalties on bounties in january?) or increase existing sinks (did insurance changes do this?).+1 interesting idea-1 not wanted. not needed. not supported."
"omfg yes."
"would be neat"
"yes"
"as long as you're always allowed to undock in a pod. unless that's changed, then no."
"this post needs a bump, for sure !"
"seems a little to cartoony for eve's style imo."
"meh... i support the idea. honestly i see them anywhoo. no you may not have a hit off my bong."
"i propose a mechanic of partial detection of cloaked ships present on grid as a mysterious overview entry featuring exactly nothing but distance. no speed, name, type neither bracket at all; only distance. it's either a probe for on-demand function or a pos module/ihub upgrade for permanent system wide function.with the mysterious entry present, it's now possible to team up and triangulate it's position. i believe this addition as a game play element will be fantastic. cat and mouse proper, if you will. the dreaded afk cloakers will have to safe spot out of grid to (effectively?) avoid detection, diminishing the reward to what a risk less endeavor should be as they will have only the incomplete and/or imperfect directional scanner's results to gather intel. are you catching my drift?"
"i'm going to come out and say that this is a bad idea. cloaking elements are hard enough as it is without people tracking you down. and its cloaking, not hide and go seek."
"to be honest, in retrospect the stealth bombers would get the short stick with this one. i'll wait a day of two to sleep on this then i'll probably trash this."
"cloaked ships can't shoot back.what's the problem again?"
"the problem is that, for some reason, people are scared to death of afk cloakers. seriously, i live in nullsec, and we have had an afk cloaker in one of our systems almost non-stop for the past few weeks. it does not bother us.why? because nullsec is unsafe as it is - it is all about having the skills to survive, and be prepared for everything. we are prepared to be hotdropped always - preparation and expectation are very important things, in nullsec you will hardly live long without them.so no, afk cloaking need not be nerfed, but people need to carefully ask themselves whether they should be living in nullsec at all, if this really concerns them so much. nullsec is nullsec! it was never meant to be safe!i mean no offence to anyone who holds opinions against afk cloaking - i understand what you are saying. however, to stress it again - let nullsec be nullsec. it was never meant to be safe, and afk cloakers are just one of the many perils you will stumble on there. if you cannot deal with it, perhaps it is not your time to move out yet.as a final note - remember that afk cloaking costs the user as well - they make no active isk on the account they are using, which can ammount to quite a serious loss in the end. it thus works both ways."
"don't make the cloaky ships any less than they are now.first i know nothing about programing or even if it's possible.i don't know, make a module and extra skill to scan down a cloaked ship. require atleast 3 pilots in system working together to locate a cloaky. maybe a stupid idea but something where it's not impossible to scan down an afk cloaker.been there, done that, know how aggravating an afk cloaky bastid can be."
"i the bonus to medium hybrid turrets bonus should be changed to a 7.5% bonus to drone mwd speed per level . in pvp or pve, no one fits medium hybrid guns on the ishtar because fitting utility, autos or smaller guns is simply much more effective.gallente deserve a ship that is a 100% drone boat, including all bonuses to drones.i realize i made this proposal several months ago but it fell victim to the 90 day rule. so if you feel it still is a good idea then give it a thumbs up. also there still has yet to be a non-fail ishtar fit posted anywhere on any forums. so before you rage that the bonus is fine, please have the balls to post your fit for all to see."
"honestly, i'd be fine switching the bonus to something else, but i'm not totally sold on an mwd boost. personally i'd rather see drone hp buffed, i think."
"it's not really messed up. i mean, the bonus does make moderate amount of sense. you can fit medium guns on it, and it will be fairly affective. that being said, the powergrid and cpu that medium guns consume is much better spent elsewhere. and yes,i will post my fit if you ask for it. as for switching the bonus...i like the idea of entirely dedicated drone boat, but i don't see mwd speed bonus that usefull. if we are giving a drone speed bonus, it would have to be a bonus to their normal and mwd speed for it to be useful enough, and even then i am not sure. i mean, it good for your drones to chase some opponents around, but that is it really. maybe drone speed and tracking, or sdrone speed and optimal? because if you increase drone speed, drones might have more trouble tracking their targets."
"+50 drones active per level."
"ok, i'm asking for you to post your fit."
"its not too nasty training to max skilled sentry drone damage in the ishtar, which is nice. with a couple of omni's and a sentry drone rig it is easy to get 500dps at 40-45 km and just under 450dps at 80-90 km. that's pretty respectable. dont' really need a secondary weapon system - especially one that's near impossible to fit without gimping the tank.i too fit tiny auto's in the turrets, telling myself they'll be useful for frigs. lol.how about removing 3 high slots, adding a low slot and boosting drones more?in return give us bonuses to drone (inc sentries) optimal range and/or tracking per level?"
"actually lowslots would be nice. the ship's armor tank is subpar to it's shieldtank."
"ishtar needs a buff to 1250grid and 500cpu and one more low slot so it can fit drone upgrades and a good tank"
"not supported. ishtar is already a very good ship, and overused compared to others. one of its bonuses isn't that useful, but still, buffing it would be the same as gimping other already gimpy hacs. yes, i fly ishtar, a buff would benefit me, but it's not good for balancing. besides, other ppl would switch, so it's zero-sum in the end."
"players can search for item names directly in their ship cargo and station items.please add an optional search field like that to the loyalty points store. i do know that there are filters, but clicking through them still takes a lot more time than a simple text field if a player knows what item name he is looking for.thanks! :d"
"do want!"
"lp store interface in general needs an overhaul.why can't we buy multiples?does it have to flash and reset after each purchase? (same happens with market, so prob. database thing).why can't we view \"what's in store\" (lame pun) without having any lp?"
"this. eve wasn't made as a toy for young brats to mess around with.if you like it like that, fine, i won't flame you. but for the love of my plasma jets, do not ruin this game. yes there are some things that need to be fixed. this isn't one of them, don't mess with it..."
"the only time there should ever be sp to 'remap' is when ccp completely eliminates the skill(s) entirely. ie learning."
"this isn't really needed and it would be a problem graphically for large battles.still, supported for more eye candy - it makes my friends want to play eve again.*sniffle...i miss frolicking in wormholes together...sob*"
"yeh, i total agree, our enemies should leave behind more realistic wreck to satisfy our lust for destruction."
"supported. maby add some visual effects to. like a piece of the ship breaking off and float away a bit. like you see in the shipwrecks in some missions"
"visuals.... bleh. why is everything eye candy?i want ships to drop stuff that would be equipped. why does that bs that shoots me with torps drop a cruise missile launcher?why does it do massive damage and drops a missile launcher 1?why is there crap items on supposedly elite enemies?although yea, low-sec faction spawns drops got gear, mission items are such garbage, and real pvp wrecks usually drop more items.id like to see item drops that are consistent to the fittings of a ship, aka pvp in pve.meh."
"like with the introduction of the faction ships that were in contract to the market, i would like to see all the faction items remaining in contracts be introduced to the market. with the exception of blueprints which have different degrees of research levels. besides the ease of being able to view what faction items are in eve, the market would need to change or have an separate section so players could view 'all regions' that they can already in contracts. i proposed a vote of yes to introduce contracts to the market, i would have assumed it would be obvious after the introduction of the faction ships. having an opinion to this topic will help eve staff that notice this post, to 'tweak' any introduction of this idea into eve."
"caldari hacs need a buff - double range bonus is useless especially in cerberus"
"let me get this straight.... you come here crying like some pathetic whimpering sniffling child who cries for his pathetic kill/death ratio... then you strut your e-peen saying you a solo pwn mobile only to get your ass handed to you on a gold plattar and then you cry about that some more... then you say \"lets be friends first before they gang up on me\"are you dense? \"how would you respond if i said we need to be friends first before you shoot me\"that's funny... that's really funny... you must be brand new to the game... so new your blind deaf and noobed all at once.sure i'll be friends... after i blow you up for just being there.you want acknowledgment? you want respect?think before you speak... the fact alone you came here crying like a nooblet means you deserve absolutely no respect whatsoever.do i suck at pvp? yeah.but you don't hear me crying and whining over getting ganked like some pathetic e-peen waving troll.please... don't make me laugh."
"i think you misunderstood this. i don't want them to make friends with me, but make friends in the game, before they gank me. (gank = gang-killing), as in, how can they gang-kill people by themselves? of course a lot of them actually do use real people to gank, but that's why my first argument is also here:i deserve something for doing good against many many enemies and rarely getting a km for it since someone warps in and disrupts it. but all i get are ******s saying i suck.---------------------------------i'm not crying about my k/d ratio, i'm just saying, why is that all i get for all the ****ing **** i go through pwning these guys?why am i an e-peen waving troll? goddamn, this is a legit problem. i am cheated, not by the players, but by the game.don't get me wrong, aside from the pvp (and even that is the best in any mmo), eve is a beautiful and fun game."
"your asking why? seriously?you call this an issue?this is no more of an issue of you being able to freely fly up to an unarmed cargo transport and blowing them up for the lol's and grins.they do it because they can.man up or ship out.this is eve online... its not supposed to be fair... it's supposed to be harsh.from what i could tell this is a numbers game...and you got outnumbered and out-gunned. for you to throw a ####fit is just totally and utterly pathetic.if your such a great hotshot... maybe you should start with yourself as far as the problems are concerned.we're done here... it's obvious you will never see past your own ego."
"get rid of killmails entirely."
"nos is used in frig combat all the time because active tanking is used in frig level combat more - neut is generally for larger ships to kill smaller ships and is generally used to stop mwd, ab, mods from working.if you want to fix nos, then you need to work through the active tanking problem (non-problem) first - and there is no quick fix.as it stands, nos is very good in small ships that need to engadge in cap wafare in order to break tanks (you get neuted, you nos back a lot more) but in larger combat where buffers are used more, you nos for what. . . nothing"
"no.when you do such mistake, you dont get to press undo and have your skill points back.example from real life.hello, i would like to exchange this engineering degree for molecular biology."
"doc could come right up and say 92.75% of the isk-wise volume of t2 items are invented ones, and people would still cry \"kill t2 bpos\"."
"its actually a safety barrier for carebears. imagine your npc'ing at a belt. all i need to do is jump in, warp 20 secs, and your dead. any roaming gang could do the same. any covert alt with a cyno can do the same. 20 secs till your dead, thats the current eve.now imagine you instead go into this bubble system, you slowboat so your 100 kilometres from the nearest entry gate and a few kilometres from a interbubble gate. now to kill you i have to enter system, d-scan where you are and figure out which bubble, warp to the entry gate, activate it thereby uncloaking my covert ops, warp to the bubble your in, possibly get decloaked by the beacon at the end, possibly be decloaked by debris / dust clouds and even when i do get to you assuming i stay cloaked you have the opportunity to kill my cov ops before my gang arrives, they're not extremely well tanked except for the t3's. since you know the entry points you can drop a 2 hour decloaking can to ensure nothing can sneak up on you. you can park an alt at a acceleration gate to detect gate activations. you have a lot more options then you do sitting in a belt that anyone can instant warp to after a quick descan before their gang arrives 20 secs later.the only thing you sacrifice is the ability to warp out instantly if you do get caught which is usually not an option since you'll invariably be scrambled anyone anyway.as for what you get, increased safety and increased profits."
"so i read most of it and what it sounds like you want is more static complexes in the game?if i remember correctly these once proliferated eve but were removed due to the huge isk faucet they provided, meaning that if they are implemented on a larger scale as you propose they'd need some balancing. in more general terms, you want something like 'non-probing' exploration.1) these areas would need to be 'mildly' better in value than the open sites (asteroid belts, stations, etc). your model requires no effort to find and, in nullsec, could be easily farmed. the catch is no warping/mwd which i agree makes low/nullsec versions more interesting.2) would these extra 'places' be used? as it stands, you are right that a huge portion of eve's grid is unused but, then again, space is kind of...empty...that's why it's called 'space'...it has lots of it. this isn't meant as criticism, but understand that just because a playground has twenty swings, if only five kids go there it's still unused: more stuff = more system usage of server. is this efficient?3) as i said, these sound like static complexes, and the behavior you describe almost sounds like what fw sites may have been meant to behave like on paper? pvp wise, what incentive would a player have to enter these sites other than to find other players? with the current system (belts and such) players don't normally hang around sites for a challenge (can we collectively say 'gang warp') so why would they go into these sites? need more work on this part in my opinion.the idea sounds good, work it some more. you may want to make a similar thread in features and ideas (forum) first to get this hammered out before making a proposal. be sure to link it here, and this thread there, so people can see both and add thoughts or support."
"corina, you are correct; but what i'm proposing is a simpler method to do so. obviously, this method should require some give and take, but i think it can provide some additional options in fleet/small gang engagements if they were more reachable, especially given these engagements are sometimes mentally taxing.alias, while your auto-attack options are pretty neat, there's two problems with them. first, not requiring target lock requires rebalancing with ecm and remote sensor dampeners. second, the calculation to determine targets would increase lag (the target system i propose would reduce to at most determining 5 targets to attack, where as defense can be determined by finding who has the 'attack drones' command on the defended target, then trace to their drones)."
"the only thing this idea does is destroy eve!!! get that through your thick skull."
"a. could be different in high sec, but belts are definitely affected by the incursion near fd on sisi.b. i have no idea why you think jamming has any effect on macros... but guristas already do."
"that's an excellent suggestion. supported."
"proposals based on common sense are dangerous around here, too many people with limited independent thought capability.suicide deaths (ie. concord) should not give insurance and self-destruct should not give insurance either.will never happen though, too many sociopaths invested in the griefing part of the game."
"i've had a look at some of the numbers - here's a simple case study, using 15km explosion radius torps:supercarrier :22m ehp8k effective tank12km sig radiussieged dreadnought:2.2m ehp5.8k effective tank2.9km sig radiustotal bomber dps needed to kill the sc in 10 minutes: 56ktime taken to kill the dread using the above: 7 minutes 20 seconds.exactly how many bombers should be needed to do this is a separate discussion, but if it's quite a bit of work to get the required number of pilots together, i doubt they'd bother just for the sake of a dread.if this was still a problem, another balancing option would be to make siege mode reduce the sig radius of dreadnoughts slightly. this wouldn't affect their vulnerability to any other weapons."
"i like big, overpowering things."
"what kind of terribly fit ms has only 22m ehp that isn't a hel? also only the wyvern can seriously tank its ehp and put up a massive passive tank at the same time. expect all other(non ******ed) supercap to be pure passive tanks"
"did you miss the thing about the active tank he mentioned? not that anyone uses that, but thats probably where the missing ehp went.anyway, it doesnt really matter all that much, his point was the sig radius comparison i believe, and a dread dying in half the time a sc would live isnt too bad for the anti-supercap bomber scenario."
"the fact no supercap in their right mind active tanks was my point. the numbers are based on a hypothetical situation that happens extremely rarely. like if i ran numbers on encountering a deadspace tanked t1 rifter that was buffer tanked.edit: i like the idea of small anti capital ships. however at this point we dont need more stuff to discourage normal capitals."
"want to bet that ccp also looked at those numbers and thought all was good?does not take into account that sc can receive rr while dps'ing whereas the dread cannot.does not take into account that active sc's outnumber active dreads by 2:1.there may be thousands of dreads in mothballs around eve, but as long as sc are able to do their job better plus have all the versatility of carriers there is no reason for people to even consider them."
"this right here is the heart of my op. my main is days away from a nearly perfect nag but ill likely never buy him one because we literally never field dreads. we field sc's p much every day."
"i have re-evaluated my ideas on the super carrier. just do one or two things...give fighter bombers 1/2 the hp they have now and/or make them go into \"drone siege mode\" for 10 min. it would allow them to deploy fighter bombers, but suffer the same problems sieging dreads/triage carriers have. 10 min timer with lower fighter bomber hit points would make them more of a \"glass cannon\", but still able to deal tremendous damage."
"swear to god i read this exact post on the last page."
"you probably did, i am at work and skimming most posts lol. but this fix is still sound...and it would give more people a reason to fly bombers, which appeals to my interest in getting everyone in eve to fly bombers lol. :d"
"going to respond as i did last time. i really don't think eve needs more root mechanics. the game needs to be more fluid not less."
"acknowledged, but the numbers bear out fairly well in the case of a 50m ehp flying brick vs. the active-tanked dreadnought. in that slightly more plausible scenario, the dreadnought dies in about 2 minutes if the sc dies in 10. adding a sig radius reduction when in siege would increase this to whatever level is reasonable.i think if this was done right, it could encourage the use of normal capitals over supercaps for more routine operations. i know this is broadening the scope of what you originally wanted to look at with this thread, but no class of ship exists in isolation. i also like the ideas xttz presented for giving other small ships more tools to use against caps, and i think adding more things like these would give combat in eve more of a rock-paper-scissors sense of balance than changing scs alone."
"you risk running into issues with dreads vs. dreads by messing with signatures too much. sig.res on capital guns is 1km, and with severely crippled tracking it won't take much to make them lose damage.and tweaking gun characteristics to compensate is not an option as that risks making sieged dreads capable of hitting sub-caps.when it comes to dread tweaks, the best suggestion so far has been a siege ehp buff either through raw numbers or through resists, large damage boost and/or cutting siege cycle duration as was done with triage."
"make the tunnels of love and light come back!/signed."
"agreed, it's just a warning to people wanting to swap pictures that they'll be creating new ones soon. nothing to do with changing bloodlines or anything else. rd is just reading too much into it.edit: support"
"true enough. however...what you failed to consider is that, in the past, races and bloodlines had mechanical effects. this has changed. for those of us who chose specifically for the mechanical bonuses and not for aesthetic reasons or were unaware that there were such aesthetic differences in creation (something that is and was never mentioned to new players - until now, that is), we have essentially been saddled with a choice that no longer has any meaning in the sense of affecting actual gameplay. further complicating things is the simple fact that appearances have changed drastically even within the same bloodlines. what we get now may be completely, entirely different from what we got in the past, and this changes things considerably. for these reasons, i believe allowing us to change bloodlines (if not race) would not be unwarranted. everyone's essentially starting over when it comes out anyways, and it's not like there isn't lore to support drastic reconstructive surgery."
"i'm in favor of a change in bloodline although it might be a moot point. i believe somewhere down the line plastic surgery pods will be available in the station so you can change your appearance and who knows maybe sex as well."
"non, post mei loquore, \"de gustibus et colum non disputandum est.\""
"that's the thing. \"somewhere down the line\" in ccp's terms may be a 5-year project. the best we've got is \"perhaps\". it's the same as announcing incarna in 2006 and see what we have now and how long it took them. or removing learning skills.that simply won't do if we're forced into new characters that don't look like want to look at all within 4 weeks. people who are very unhappy with the overhaul don't want to have to walk around in something they can't relate to for years."
"voting against.you are re-modeling your character. i have re-created siigari closely enough to look at her and say \"wow, that's siigari!\" you can do it too, if you give it some time.you state that the problem is that you can't make your character match the way you look now. so you're going to take it one step further and take yourself out of that (pick any) race/bloodline/gender?no way. ccp keeps rules in place and i really doubt they're going to break the immersion. you are who you are. make yourself look as good as you can."
"have you tried sebiestor or vherokior? i would be quite impressed if you manage to match looks of old and new."
"i'm really, really halfway about this.on the one hand, it's a purely cosmetic thing, and bloodline isn't like race; all bloodline seems to influence is which npc corp you find yourself in, especially given that attributes and such are all basically equal now. also, some of the bloodline changes really are drastic visually. heck, i'd consider going civre myself.but.. there's more to bloodline than just appearance. there's also the bloodline backstory. if you changed your bloodline, it'd also mean changing your ancestry.. in a way, that makes you a different character entirely. and i'm not really sure that the character creator isn't flexible enough as it is; you may not be able to recreate some of the weirder looking characters, but i don't think you're meant to, and i'm pretty sure that each new model is going to look closer to its old model than any other; i'm also pretty sure nobody looks more like old deteis than new deteis. there's also the added oddity of corp standings... oh, what the hell.supported."
"absolutely supported. in 2006 i scrapped my original character and made this one achura because, attribute-wise, it was clearly superior to other options at the time. please allow us to finally select a character we find pleasing for aesthetic or story related reasons."
"ccp is already forcing us to change our physical identity with incursion. bloodlines look different than what they used to look like 6 years ago. i don't see why we shouldn't be able to change our bloodline once."
"supported. if you're going to change the bloodlines' appearances enough that our characters are no longer recognizeable, then you may as well let us just switch bloodlines. i don't rp, and place no value on the story elements of my bloodline, so the only value it has to me is aesthetic."
"choosing min-max approach and then wanting to get to live on without the consequences when the opportunity presents itself .. shame on all of you!eve is consequence. no \"ifs\". no \"buts\". it is the reason it is worth playing for goddess sake!supported on one condition, non-negotiable:clone vat responsible for the transmorgrification is unable to process the dual-dna strands correctly and includes a leftover of the old in new.example: matari -> caldari = caldari with oddly placed tattoo, dreadlocks, etc."
"supported."
"last produced gallente blaster ships are ok: vindicator and proteus. but all other blaster ships need to be revised after all changes since web nerf time."
"after seeing what a properly fitted autocannon boat can do vs. a hybrid boat of either blasters or rails, i knew something was off. way off.this totally needs looking at. it's such a terrible thing."
"in my opinion blasters need a huge tracking boost. double te mediums should track almost as well as smaller guns. slight increase of both optimal and falloff. not too much. maybe less cap usage?issue is blaster boats as well. they need pg/cpu increment, so that they can fit top tier guns without fitting issues. blasters use way too much pg/cpu compared to autocannos and at same time minmatar boats have more pg! minmatar style high utility slots, more speed, maybe proper bonuses? who ever uses repair bonus on brutix?"
"i personally have always liked the classic anime missile style -- typically the missiles get ejected, then they light off, spread out, and then corkscrew in on the target while madly jinking to avoid countermissile and point-defence fire.since all of that can be done in the client -- and it doesn't really matter if different missiles are seen by different players to take slightly different paths (except for edge cases like smartbombs, which will get lost in the fog of war anyway) -- it would basically depend on how much time and effort ccp wants to spend on making it look seriously cool."
"bump.and then the count cackled madly and sang, \"one! one csm vote! ahahahahahaaa...\"seriously though, don't just read folks. please support this proposal! even if you don't have new ideas or aren't too sure of the current ones, votes of support indicate that at least players want to see the graphic updated. thanks!"
"totally supported, makes no sense that you can't really."
"as we're supposed to be in a sandbox this gets my support under the notion, that i want this for all drones.if one group of drones can target the host-ship and apply what ever utility it has onto it, then all the others can do the same, no artificial restrictions to protect the idiots here.if there is just a slight chance of reading some ones ragequit on the forums about his own drones shooting him down, i want to read that./supported, for all drones"
"ah, i am reminded:2/3 of those obviously aren't reasons to do anything. immortals who communicate at ftl speeds? fictional justifications are bankrupt. whether or not it's simple to implement is a non sequitor. as for not destroying balance, as you have steadfastly handwaved the fact that they are targeted external effects, you are obviously ignoring why changing that changes the balance. just like you can't claim that letting ships self-target with their remote reps wouldn't change balance. earlier you actually supported letting single ships web themselves into warp, totally obviating the need for cooperative play in situations that have always demanded it. you have reached the point in your argument where you are using shrieking (and factually erroneous shrieking). i am, however, beginning to grok why you don't understand the game mechanics involved in the issue. it's a bit odd that you still don't understand that drones are not ships any more than missiles are ships or pos mods are ships, but hopefully this concept won't prove too esoteric. what, do you think, is the purpose of a targeted external effect? why are they external rather than local, did ccp just flip a coin? why are they reliant on being directed against a locked target in order to achieve specificity, is that random? how do these mechanics mesh with the concept of a cooperative engagement between disparate elements, and how does allowing external effects to duplicate local effects alter the schema and balance between the three types of slots, drone loadouts, and cooperative/solo play? is it just coincidence that there are logi ships, local reppers, buffers and resist tanks? once you can answer those questions i'd wager that the holes in your position should become much more obvious to you, and the reason why \"targeted external effects\" is not a meaningless phrase, yes, even when a pos has modules anchored outside the shields, will become clear. this is a good example of why your argument crumbles. of course you've used your false claim that drones \"are\" ships as an argument, to claim otherwise is absurd. and you only \"retracted\" it (grudgingly and with a faux retraction) when you were shown you were wrong. and once shown it was wrong, you're still using it while claiming that you're not while complaining about not being allowed to use it. this is another very good example of the fundamental lack of coherence and blatant game-playing that your argument is based around. when the facts do not fit, you've invented new ones. faced with the fact that you simply can not send your drones to engage a specific target without a target lock, you've deliberately claimed that recalling drones is the same as having your drones engage a target. of course, we both know that you really can't send drones to engage a specific ship you haven't targeted, which is why you changed the subject and pretended it was the same.ironically enough you've also shown another reason why your position lacks merit: targeted external effects that can now be recalled at will and become invulnerable, have to be targeted individually to be effected by enemies, can be swapped from local to external effects at will, can be external and local while being independent of both ship capacitor and sensor integrity, etc, etc, etc.yeah, that doesn't alter balance or distort the entire logic of eve's interactions, because you'd really like to use solace armor reppers on yourself."
"by the way, is that account your main or do you have another one? because judging from that account's stats, you have under two dozen kills, and almost exclusively use frigates... i'm just curious as to how much experience you have with how eve actually works.your confusion over what targeted external effects are, how they fit into the balance and schema of eve and your frustration over my use of the term would make a lot more sense if your exposure to the game is limited in the way that your stats seem to suggest. i'd at least know where i need to start explaining things. for some \"the environment is totally anoxic\" is all the explanation they need. others need a discussion on the electron transport chain, the nature of metabolism and to have an understanding of respiration built from the ground up. i haven't been having much progress with the former dynamic, and i'd like to know how much farther i have to go towards the latter to bridge any conceptual gaps that you may have. once we get that down i can begin explaining to you what tee's are, and why they exist as they do. just let me know what level of detail i have to start with. thanks much in advance."
"the problem, faz, with your argument is that drones can target independently of their mothership. that is indisputable."
"well, no, that's not a problem and i've specifically addressed it (your gloss is also slightly, but importantly, incorrect). as i've stated before, and as game mechanics bear out, you cannot direct your drones at a specific target without a lock. their ability to engage random things that aggro you is balanced by an utter lack of specificity, to the point where they can attack your own fleet members if they accidentally put a gun onto you rather than a remote rep. also, remote rep drones do not have even that sort of behavior, as they don't go zipping around repping your fleet members on their own recognizance. and drones targeting is indeed tightly constrained by their mothership. you can not have, for example, a fleet of ten ships just drop 50 warrior ii's on grid and then warp off, and have their drones shred any 'ceptors on grid."
"those words still don't actually mean anything, and they won't until you define what exactly \"external\" means. call me when you feel like doing that. your entire argument rests on the idea that logistic drones are arbitrarily detached remote reps. my entire argument rests on the idea that logistic drones are small robotic logistic ships. neither of these definitions are 100% literally correct, but mine is sure as hell closer to the truth than yours.saying that drones have no more in common with ships than missiles and pos modules is such a monumentally stupid proposition that i can't even formulate a solid response. it's like trying to argue with somebody who insists the sky is green; the concept is so deep-rooted in broken perceptions that there isn't anything to debate.but you did manage to resort to ad hominems, a debate tactic one step above name-calling. good on you."
"removed trolling comment"
"you are limiting your argument to the artificial limits imposed on drones as they are now without considering that there would not have to be any significant changes to drone behaviour or code to get them to repair their master. repair drones incidentally would follow the same aggro rules as aggressive drones if ccp hadn't of left that part out for them, they would repair the ship shooting you."
"supported"
"so in other words, you either can not or simply will not answer any of my questions about your knowledge of eve, the purpose of targeted effects, the game balance and schema of solo/cooperative interactions, but you'll handwave it all away. too bad. when you want to actually discuss the issue rather than ignore it, please let me know. in other words, just like how you can't even begin to describe what the role and nature of tee's is, you'd like to handwave away that fact too. it's a good indicator that you've got absolutely nothing to your argument when your 'rebuttal' is \"that's stupid!!!\" of course, you're still stuck on the fiction that drones are ships. they're not, they're drones. and drones have their own profile. a profile that i keep trying to get you to analyze and which you keep simply refusing to look at or distorting (the whole \"i can too have my drones engage specific targets without a lock, because they can return and orbit me!\")i'd think that drones are drones, and ships are ships, is somewhat obvious.that your entire argument rests on a very basic error that you refuse to correct, as you get more and more angry about the issue, is unfortunate. that is, quite clearly, a complete and total fabrication. never happened. do you even know what an ad hominem fallacy is? it'd be something like saying \"your character's name is silly, therefore your argument is wrong!\" instead, i've asked what you actually know about the mechanics that you're talking about, as you seem not to understand their nature or relation to the rest of eve. that's rather clearly not using an extraneous personal detail to gainsay on-topic comments. the fact that you evidently do not understand how the game works and what role tee's play in it is not, at all, extraneous to whether or not you understand how the game works and what role tee's play in it. this is rather obvious. that you've claimed that level of understanding of the game is an \"ad hominem\" points to this really being your main account, and you really having under 20 kills in all your time playing eve, and so you do need to identify what you actually understand about tee's before you can identify and discuss them and their purpose and role in the game.it also shows why you keep thinking that the phrase is meaningless. instead of admitting that you don't understand it or know how tee's work or why they're the way they are in the game, i suppose it's much easier to simply handwave them away while shouting \"meaningless! meaningless! meaningless!\" much easier since you refuse to identify what you know about their meaning, after all. which means you simply do not understand how the game works, which is of course the reason you refuse to answer my questions and prefer to yell \"that's stupid!\" rather than indicating what exactly you understand about the purpose and role of tee's. none of that is ad hominem. if you don't understand an issue it's hard for someone to try to explain it to you, especially if you refuse to say what parts of it exactly you don't understand. \"i'd like to discuss the process of cellular respiration now.\"\"okay, but from what i understand you've never studied it and don't understand what the role of oxygen is in it, or what atp is, and so on. i'd be happy to explain it, but i need to know what it is that you do understand.\"\"ad hominem! ad hominem!!!\"again, please answer my questions on what tee's are and why, and identify what your experience is with the game so i know how to begin filling in gaps in your understanding. thanks again."
"i hate that bots have/are/will/could be ruining my favorite game and would support any measure to completely remove them."
"supported!"
"i was thinking this very thing the other day, in the form of a warp button (like the existing autopilot etc buttons) that would activate and warp you in whatever direction you're aligned to, until you deactivate it/run out of cap. i don't see being able to d-scan someone down this way as a problem though, i see it as the counter for being able to burn out of a bubble and insta-warping without having to faff about finding something in the right direction to align to. sure you can get out a little easier, but it's easier to hunt you down. there'd be no real 'safe' spots this way, and fleet engagements would be more mobile, more fluid, and able to happen somewhere *else* other than on gates or at pos's, allowing the vast empty 'in between' spaces that make up the majority of star systems to actually be used.i see this complementing the existing system, making combat scanning a bit more of a speedy, active thing (no problem with retaining the current method for anoms/wormholes etc, or ships if you prefer doing it that way),giving a bit more life to the d-scanner and generally making combat in eve a bit more mobile. the only issue i can see is what would happen if you warped beyond the 'boundaries' of the system (which i'm fairly sure exist).supported."
"sounds like a very good idea to me it if feels like ccp will give us this with incarna tho ;)"
"lol @ the pony comment.max, your colorful on the inside. like a daisy. sprouting."
"yeah, i don't think capsuleers like to walk around with the same haircut for 20 years. and they will grow older too, even if it's in a slower pace than non-capsuleers."
"sounds like a good idea. supported!"
"supported."
"not a bad idea. gives some realistic variety."
"i honestly don't see the point here.9 times out of 10 most gankers are going to bio their toons anyway or go away for a prolonged period of time.revoking insurance however would be a good start.i'm not entirely against suicide ganking... but its gotten way to damn easy."
"so it's somehow wrong to \"enjoy\" concord protection when the carebear is also doing the same? u really wanna fight them outside of that \"concord-land\" that u smack about yet hide inside it at the same time, then u might wanna *gasp* stay outside concord-land then."
"it's not the old breed of gankers. majority of gankers those days chain missions to boost back sec, then chain ganks for profit. they're basically carebears who's been ganked in the past, realized how lucrative the loophole is, and smartened up to do it themselves. many have never been outside of highsec. gankers have been around since the beginning of eve, just not nearly as many. it's a rarity just 2 years ago, now it's past the game-breaking point, with competing groups rushing for targets at the same spot."
"you can't blame the fox for wanting to eat the chickens in the chicken coop on the farm."
"any ship or group of ships fit out to kill you in under 15 seconds wont stop because you can shoot back. sorry bro but your navy raven on your main(because this isnt your main you're posting with) will die regardless of concord assisting them or not. this is a needless suggestion."
"the idea is not for the carebear in a hauler to shoot back. it's for the gankers to be open to assault by anyone who feels like it, this may include gangs from local corps who want to clean up their backyard, or some vigilante passing through who wants some fun. it is to take away the absolute safety of concord protection that gankers currently enjoy when they're camping and scanning targets at leisure. i've rescued friends' partially dead freighters in the past, the only way to do it is pop ecms before they finish it off, then get concorded for my efforts. it's simply unfair how concord works for the gankers and against ganked. escort protection should be allowed to shoot obvious gankers.and you can't expect the chicken farmer to protect the fox while at it. fox can do what it wants, just not risk-free."
"that's like treating headache with guillotine.issue: hi-sec farming is very safe and allows the usage of absurdly expensive gear even for most incompetent ones.consequence: some consider entering suicide-ganking path as a source of income.proper solution: deal with the issue (that is - reducing hi-sec farming appeal).false way: deal with the consequence of the issue."
"what you refer as an \"issue\" is large sectors of the economy. who else do you think buy deadspace mods outside of highsec? think mom and titan pilots would buy out all the spares? what do you think the null exploration profession live off? you've completely missed the point. the issue isn't even suicide ganking itself, but rather the fact that it's risk free and enjoying concord protection."
"if your going to propose a punishment/penalty then increase the sec-loss substantially.have it kick up an exponential for the value of the losses + the number of ships killed prior to concord showing up.make it so its the quickest way to get a -10 rating.because everyone knows... if your blinky blinky to concord... your blinky blinky to everyone.it's anyone under -5.0 isn't? should be easy to retaliate... sure as hell makes their lives a living hell to grind up when the penalties are much higher. doesn't exactly solve the trouble."
"fun fact, as a supercarrier pilot with several alts. i have 3 deadspace fit machs, 1 deadspace fit nightmare and a few similarly fit t3 ships and faction frigates/cruisers.what i am trying to say here is, don't overestimate your \"corner of the market\" also please don't assume less people buying faction and officer mods is a bad thing. dyspro duping made up a large chunk of the market. it was still washed away and lookie look, market survived."
"please note that this topic has been discussed literally hundreds of times before and that your suggestion is not new, and comes down to nothing more than \"i believe that ccp should punish people who dont play the game in a way i like\" without providing any good balance or gameplay reasons as to why they should do so, whilst completely failing to examine the consequential effects.please provide evidence that hi-sec is too unsafe for the rewards that can be obtained there. since you are proposing a fundamental balance change, some data to support your proposal would not go astray here.alternatively, if you're simply intending to make hi-sec safer, what balancing proposal would you suggest to limit the rewards contained there?alternatively, if you think some other mechanism should be introduced to restore the lost risk, what should that be? a reformed wardec system would help, but that would still leave npc corp haulers at an even greater advantage. a more consistent solution might be to make concord more \"realistic\"; currently they turn up almost instantly, are omnipotent, inescapable and work for free. modifying some or all of those characteristics would make the game more immersive. paying insurance on gankers ships does seem absurd, but it's no more absurd that the current concord mechanism we have now, and the latter causes the need for the former. and finally, since the cost of killing a t1 hauler will remain fairly low, whilst ganking a freighter or orca will be prohibitively expensive, malcanis' law will apply: the rich older players in capital haulers and t2 ships will be safe, whilst new players in more vulnerable ships will be the sole target of all the gankers. your proposal boosts old players at the expense of new ones. in addition, since hi-sec macroers are disproportionately vulnerable to suicide ganks, your proposal effectively boosts botters as well."
"supported."
"see what i did there?as funny as it sounds, suicide ganking is a necessity for balance with the current state of the game."
"what we need is not more npc policing, but rather opening up options for player action. ccp can disable fire on players in highsec completely if they want. it's not eve. having concord protect suicide gankers is also not eve. we do not need yet more arbitrary rules and loopholes that can be exploited, but rather more choices and options. the idea is not to disable suicide gank, but to disable concord protection for suicide gankers."
"so let's remove concord protection from both sides. there you go, now you both have many options you didnt before."
"that's low/null, it already exist, and occupies most of eve systems. concord protection is removed from both sides the moment any vigilante fires on a ganker."
"much as i despise suicide ganking, giving them no protection at all goes too far, even for me. reasonable i think is the following:1) make insurance fees progressively more expensive, the more you call upon your insurance company for payout. and, conversely, let fees slowly drop back to normal when you haven't called in a case in a while. that way the noob is still covered for his accidental loss, but the professional suicide ganker will soon find himself unable to insure his ship without taking a loss.n.b. ccp has always argued that scamming in eve is allowed, because it occurs in real life too. except, of course, that in eve you can do so with impunity. so, insurance fraud (which suicide ganking really is) should come with a penalty as well, like in real life, when people who claim a lot have to pay a heftier fee each time (and if they keep it up, eventually the insurance company will, indirectly, invoke criminal investigations).2) have security status loss increase for repeated offenses (again, like above, mitigated over time when you're not being a bad boy). and, make it so that below -2.0 security status, you can no longer collect insurance, anywhere.people are always pulling the \"choices you make have consequences in eve!\" card. it's high time suicide ganking, like any other act of piracy in low/highsec, comes with consequences too (other than having concord pick up the tab for your dastardy deeds)."
"tradable kill rights would solve this. no need to bring concord or faction police into it."
"then you have to fumble with some trading scheme. which leads to smack, politics, and not much action. just let anyone who came by do what they want about the camping gankers when they want it."
"they can already do this, under exacly the same terms and conditions as the gankers themselves. since you assert that there's zero risk or cost to ganking, then it should be trivial to countergank."
"it takes half a dozen bs to gank a ganker bs. their victim drop billions in loot, your victim drops nothing. if it's any viable people would've been doing it, genius.besides, i'd rather see some real fights instead of setting up braindead volley exploits. having fail-fit bs with long range guns and no tracking just waiting around to be pounced on in your hac will bring life back to pvp. sounds like fun. less suicide gank farming, more fights and explosions.when a suicide ganker ganks someone, everyone in highsec gets kill right. think of the mouth-watering possibilities."
"this. welcome to the collision of your arguments.solution:ships with billions worth of goodies use a scout.seriously, i'm not sure how this proposed mechanic would work. i've both ganked and been on the sad end of ganks in high sec. when i ganked, it was with alts that i flushed once their sec got too bad. also, we usually were sitting 400-500km off the gate aligned in with only one guy on the gate so the idea of catching high sec gankers sitting around on a gate would only work with lazy people."
"who sits 500km off gate in highsec? how do you even scan and have buddies move in in time? and i don't want the ganked to smarten up. i want glowly failfit ganker phons to pop. suicide gankers don't deserve concord protection anyway, they should be fair game. kill rights for everyone!"
"the majority of nullsec inhabitants are botbears/carebears that depend on local channel to let them know when to blob or dock up.local takes away freedom, because it adds an absolute to the game. the only other thing that is absolute is that concord will kill you in hi sec for doing something they don't like.a sandbox with absolutes is not a sand box."
"no local in wspace semi works because the npcs are omnitanked, and do omni damaged, and switch targets, and there are no cynos. pirates coming in do indeed have a better chance at surprise, no doubt about it, but they do not have prior knowledge of their enemies most likely damage type, most likely gaping resist hole, and do not have many npc 'drones' providing additional dps for them, and can't drop a fleet of bored sc pilots on you.you want to ditch local, you'll have to do that to rats in kspace so that pvpers can't exploit the gaping resists pve demands alongside having much greater surprise. cloakers will have to be detectable with dscan/probes as well(though not able to be warped too). they would be far too powerful if they could pop a cyno with no possible method of their presence being detectable before the thing is already active. stealth bombers uncloaking, locking, and jamming you, all within 2s, going from zero indication(and zero possible indication) of anything being wrong to most assuredly will die within seconds would get old pretty fast.oh,and the chief reason to avoid wh space, the incessant spam of the dscan button, would have to be fixed. autorepeat function or similar.and asking in local whos in what ships is still a ******ed concept. computers could easily automate that task if ccp would let us. thats the only other absolute? wow.. i've missed out on some changes apparently. can you tell how i can fit a covert ops cloak onto my battleship? also, i would like to invent a brand new zealot bpo and go into production, process on that please? i'd really like to tear out the poor sensors on my golem, and swap in the much better ones from my navy scorpion... do i do that in the fitting screen? actually, nevermind, since apparently, with all the absolutes removed, its impossible to make things absolutely unprobeable anymore by fitting excessive eccm and raising sensor strength above sig radius. btw, does this mean i can fly every ship and use every weapon/module now? before i got a message stating i absolutely didn't have the skills to use a lot of things.a sandbox offers freedom of choice bound within constraints. eve has rules, just like a real sandbox has rules. dry sand won't make a sandcastle no matter how hard you wish otherwise."
"i agree with this post.the local chat takes away a very particular element of the game. it gets rid of the element of surprise and mystery. when you first jump through a wormhole, you immediately look at your overview, and the local chat to see who's in the zone. that's not how it should be. there's no sportsmanship involved in this.when you first jump through a wormhole, you should look at your overview, bust out your scanner and do readings. getting rid of local chat has benefits:1. forces new players to utilize the scanner for safety, and rely on tips.2. creates the element of surprise, and a shadow of safety unless an individual is scanning for you in your asteroid field or wherever you may be.3. allows fleets, small gangs, solos and industrial to move un-noticed. (why is it fair for your fleet to enter a system and then just because your blips pop up in local your ambush fail?) do it."
"this is impossible without introducing some alternative way of detecting ships. i live in w-space, and \"no local\" works there because you have alot more control of your environment out there. we can close off our system by collapsing wh's when we want to do pve stuff, and a few probes checking for new sigs is enough to give us some measure of security.k-space with all its open stargates without local will just make any type of pve activity in low/null suicidal.so no ;)"
"supporting. i'd also like to see a delayed local in low sec for similar reasons."
"hmm. i think it shouldn't just be one small area, but i think it would be a good idea to test, even if just for a week or two, globally. there's no substitute for sticking the damned thing in and seeing how it goes. experimentation is a cornerstone of science.do it."
"needs better d-scan first.. something that works active/passive to get some balance into this. if you're passive you get anything scanning active told. then tie in combat scans as active if very very close and balance from there.as for being save from hot-drops of scs.. get a proposal for a module on the line, that works as local cyno-jammer for the grid you're on."
"dear carniflex,csm vote? really? so affected by their existence? i'll give you a hug. you seem like you really need one. tears on my shirt is fine, but no snort ok?alright alright, snort is fine only this time for you."
"dear stella,thank you for the hug. however i'm afraid it will not be enough to comfort me enough to stop me finding t2 bpo's as bad thing for this game."
"**** yes. cs5 crew checking in. havent flown the astarte in years and i desperately want that to change."
"i have also spent some time analyzing fleet command ships, deciding they weren't worth it. the t1 bc is very close to matching their power and 1/10 the cost. t3 are better yet, at double the cost.while roaming in 0.0, i notice very few people use fleet commands - much more people use t3. most people go for bc - cause they are just so damn cheap.i think it's a good idea to boost them."
"you should be able to seamlessly transition from gate cloak to your own cloak simply by activating your cloaking device. you should not have to move and expose yourself.i do not expect this proposal to get much support."
"no modules activates while any cloak is active. including cloaks."
"covert ops ships would become way too powerful."
"you are aware that any ship that can fit said cloak is comprised of paper thin glass for armor covered in highly protective paper for privacy. as much as people hate cloaks you would think a specialized version that dons the name \"convert ops\" would be able to cloak a ship as it enters system. as thats why you get that free 30 second cloak as you havent technicaly landed untill you decloak from jump cloak"
"supported. it's not like anyone have the reflex to lock on at the gap in cloak even if you're in instalock ship. the only reason it happen is due to lag, which shouldn't be considered an legitimate level of gameplay that need to be preserved."
"i would be for this change if local remained as it is.but if local channel is finally nerfed - which it will be if ccp got at least one hardcore bone left in their carebear body - then the way things work now would be more than fair, as it would give people a chance to notice possible threat.without local, the cov ops would receive natural boost, making additional boosts in stealth excessive."
"this."
"op's new \"i win\" button:1. pop cyno2. engage cloak3. jump scarrier4. align5. wait for curious fool to warp to cyno6. decloak7. launch fighters8. assign to cyno alt9. warp10. engage with cyno alt"
"you're aware that doesn't have anything to do with this topic... rite?"
"as simple as that... just take a look at current supercap distribution, haters must be blind not to see that there's an issue. sokratesz and the author of this thread maid have laid one's finger on this obvious, you don't think so ? so, heavily supported"
"support if the drake is nerfed"
"as it is now, battlecruisers make t1 cruisers almost redundant, and make battleships less preferable. the root of the issue is performance over cost. for bcs such as drake and cane, performance/cost ratio is very high.the fix i suggest is simple and effective: make bc use large rigs.think carefully about what that would mean. think about bc relationship with cruisers and battleships. the performance / cost ratio will become much closer in line with other t1 hulls."
"i support this product i miss bs"
"no,tier 2 bc's are balanced the way they are (even the drake). if you actually want to make the drake op you give bc's large rigs then it will cost ~65mil to triple trimark an armor bc and about 20mil to rig a shield bc. bs aren't used because of cap prevalence, cruisers have several drawbacks like af's being able to put out almost as much dps but much more ability to gtfo, and large gangs being the name of the game. cruisers should be small gang ships meant filling the role of heavy hitters in frig gangs. bc's prevail because of cap ships and the fleet sizes involved (they are also a natural extension of the dessie alpha gangs running around this summer)."
"have to agree. bc are closer to battleships than they are cruisers."
"i support this product, i miss cruisers .. ps: armour rigs need a price decrease to be competitive with shield ditto."
"supported."
"not supported. its good the way it is."
"just a thought and will probably get flamed for it.but why is it that the 2 ships that cannot dock in game also get the lowest bloody rate of return on insurance in the game. they die least of any ship in eve, they have some of the best survivability, and generally are piloted by semi experienced to experienced pilots. doesnt this mean the insurance companies would love them?anyways supercarriers kick out 900mil for insurance if im correct, titans less than 3 bil.so both super caps dish out less than 10% build cost in insurance. when you consider a titan is built for 30-35 bil (with nox spike) the fit is at least another 5-10 bil. how big a deal is it that you get paid back even 25-40 percent value, build cost. that would be like 10-15 bil for a titan, when market sell price is 65. super carriers would be say 2-4you won't be getting into one any time soon, as the difference is still hard to make up. but you arent staring at a 10-40 bil isk asset knowing that if it dies you get nothing back. also with the talk about nerfing super caps going around, and the insurance payouts right now. its a verrry fine line between too risky and just risky enough.before i leave i will say thisi know every hater of super caps will flame meevery hater of capitals will flame meevery empire pubby who cant get a cap/super will flame meevery 0.0 pilot who thinks bs should be the biggest ship will flame meevery 0.0 roaming pilot who delights on dead supers will flame meevery pl pilot will probably flame me.every rich 0.0 pilot who likes having an isk monopoly over supers will flame meso basically im ready and flame away."
"support also the reason ccp reduced the insurance was they wanted the loss of a super to be a big deal. but honestly the loss of 40 bil compared to the loss of 30 or 35 bil is the same, you still just lost a f*ck load of isk. which will (without help from moons/alliance) take any super cap pilot a while to recover from."
"what good purpose would be served by this change?"
"what harm would come of it? yea i can ask those questions as well...what good? well there would be more incentive to use them in smaller gangs, or in riskier situations. cause as it stands now they are all risk no reward so the majority of pilots fly them only when they are in a large fleet of supers, or ratting.increasing the insurance to what is was prior would reduce some of the risk if lost while not changing the ship at all. which in turn would promote their use outside of the super cap fleet.there is no diffence in losing 10 bil or 100 bil if its all the isk you have, not every super cap pilot is funded by a never ending stream of isk. some scrouge for months or even years to get the isk together for their ship. if they can barely afford to fly a nyx but they buy one losing it will do more damage to them when compared to a pilot who has 50 bil and flies a nyx and can lose it and replace it 5 times. the diffence comes in replacing the ship. if you can barely afford it and lose it any isk you get from insurance helps. if your rich and you lose it insurance isk doesnt really matter."
"not a flame."
"actually, the gun would fire just fine, since the oxygen for the reaction is supplied by the potassium nitrate already present in the powder, not atmospheric oxygen. please check your facts before you say something.shots have a max range in eve for the same reason ships have a top speed. because. its game balance, pure and simple, with absolutely no regard for reality. the only weapon with a plausible max range are blasters."
"when angular velocity is zero, the formula that takes into account the relative size of the turret weapon and the target is 0. you have to have a value other than 0 in angular velocity before it matters that you are flying a malediction instead of a leviathon."
"this is correct. this isn't the first time someone has noted the failure to account for the subtended angles of ships, either, but it isn't a particularly pressing issue."
"guys,i want you all to consider this proposal for the battleship has effectively been considered unable to do its job. once upon a time a battleship could engage combat with 2-3 bc, and 3+ cruisers and almost ignore the presence of the frigates and walk out unscathed for they were just flies. this was realistic, as the battleship is meant to be the primary middle-ground beast. the battleship due to several nerfs to its class, buffs, web capability and mobility is a dying breed. every other class of ship in this game can do things relatively solo without problems. they have the capability to tackle and retreat if necessary - parallel to the battleship, which is too weak to put up a fight, too slow to run away and a bs nowadays has no option but to sit there, get owned, and call for friends. so with a hefty price tag and the absolute necessity of having other ships / people to play with why would anyone even think about flying a battleship when you can have a smaller ship that can do the job possibly better?i work 40 hours a week, i like to solo. i use to solo in battleships all the time, now it seems the most fun i have when i get to play is the hour i spend fitting my battleship before i get to watch it pop. - then at this point i just want to log.look at the differences here:brutix (battlecruiser)armor hitpoints 4,395 hp armor em damage resistance 50 % armor explosive damage resistance 10 % armor kinetic damage resistance 35 % armor thermal damage resistance 35 % vs.dominix (battleship) armor hitpoints 6,211 hp armor em damage resistance 50 % armor explosive damage resistance 10 % armor kinetic damage resistance 35 % armor thermal damage resistance 35 % 1. the variation of armor/shield of battleships is literally like ccp is building these ships with an equation. example: ccp says: \"mk gents! - were going to make the destroyer 1.5 x stronger then the frigate!- were going to make the cruiser 1.5 x stronger then the destroyer!- were going to make the battlecruiser 1.5 x stronger then the cruiser!- were going to make the battleship 1.5 x stronger then the battlecruiser.^ this is ridiculous. there's absolutely no thought put into this. battleships need to be feared, or at most a pain.1. battleships need to literally be about 3/4x stronger then a battlecruiser. 2. as a larger ship, they should be able to web at 90%, for they are slow, and bigger.3. they should have much more armor/shield capabilities to make up for their immobility.4. they should have more utility slots to do their damned job. i'm not asking them to be the \"omgpwnmachine\" - but they need a good look under the microscope. +1"
"posting to confirm i always fly unfitted ships."
"1. why are you spending an hour fitting any ship?2. oh noes, a ship died! must mean it sucks!3. you do want them to be pwnmobiles. 90% web? that one of the vindicator's bonuses, you know a faction battleship?seems to be you just are qqing after being killed in a battleship. oh and a neut domi would nearly instantly cap out that brutix and it's 5 ogre iis would go nom nom on it's hull."
"confirm they overgimped bs. don't make it the old bs, but it could use some balancing."
"add 4 hi slots to all bs and increase the weapon count +2 turrets and +2 launchers. add only 10% more fitting stats however.yes, i'm aware this breaks the 8 slot golden rule... but ccp should have thought of that before they thought of battlecruisers."
"i think the bs, like the panda, has had its best time. it's time to let it die off. \"bigger = better!\" is the recourse of a linear mind. fight smarter, instead."
"i love the terrible ideas you come up with, there always funny. battleships need a buff but neither the op or anubis have suggested a decent proposal which isnt an over buff"
"however in ship based games bigger at least means lasts longer. some idea to my my bs not so bad.(a) 50% resists across the board , the term battle ship is kinda hard to place in what your going to do with it, oh wait your going to battle. (b) increase bs's ability to deal with smaller ships , im not saying make them do full damage to a frigate, but make them able do enough damage to say 1 or 2 frigs that decide to stay just a little to long. (c) give bs's some sort of system that reduces fighter/fighter bombers effectivness towards them , so they dont melt like butter when the first sc hits the field."
"i think the easiest way to \"fix\" the battleships is to increase grid and cpu on them."
"battleships are seeing something of a resurgence in fleet combat so i'm afraid this is an unfortunately timed thread."
"so i'm not sure if this has ever been posted, if it has please reference me, and lock. so, a lot of talk has been going on about how to \"fix\" low-sec. and i got a idea, since incursions have been happening with the sansha what would happen if the bounds for what was considered low sec changed. i'm talking like, now .5 is also considered low-sec. now a valid reasoning(in my eyes) for this is due to the sansha pushing forward into empire, concord is withdrawing its policing forces tighter into empire space to help defend the core systems. this is obviously a rather large and wild idea that could change the game in huge ways, and really adding to the affect of the sansha invasions. thoughts on this idea are greatly welcomed(positive and flaming)tldr: could help low-sec and helps make the sansha a real powerhouse in new eden."
"how is making more systems in the game low sec helping low sec in anyway?"
"sigh.. its my main. not even a alt.. just a really really lame name. and it makes it so that if people want to mission out there or for some reason go mining there is more risk to it. and, i really wish i would have thought of this in my first post, it makes the universe more dynamic. right now other then nul sec everything's static and thus hasn't changed at all. if you look at the outside world, country borders could change at anytime, why cant eve be just like that. also this is just a base idea. i'm sure theirs plenty that could come out of this."
"kami pretty much nailed it, how does adding to a pile of crap make it less crappy?were 0.5's to become low-sec then you'd see a spike in deaths as mission runners move shop to nearest 0.6 and after a month or two threads about making low-sec bloody matter start cropping up again, goto 10.and yes, borders in the real world may change at any time yet have largely remained static for generations. geographical boundaries, ethnic/cultural divisions, preference for hard-boiled or soft-boiled eggs .. we humans yearn for community so bunch together and there is hell to pay if you try to change that."
"bump, thanks for the supports =)"
"supported"
"supported."
"i have noticed the fleet finder is not active and has almost never been used since its enterduction. all other mmorpg's have a \"lfg\" looking for group setting. in eve you really only join other players if you know them and they are almost never on. perhaps a redo of the fleet finder or a isk bonus from bounties and mishes to all members of a fleet through the fleet finder. to try and encourage the use of the fleet finder."
"not for you maybe, but i can find fleets on there 24/7.join an active corp or alliance, get some standings."
"there are 8-15 fleets around the clock on it for me. maybe you should join an actual player corporation that does stuff eh?"
"lulz @ goons. join at your own peril.there are no public fleets because of paranoia. games that have active pugs are either not full loot, disable fire on player in pve area, or have heavy gm action on grieving. you wouldn't mind socializing with people you don't know in norway, but not in iraq. think about which one eve is."
"definitely a problem that has cost me quite a bit of isk! /signed"
"easily supported. :)"
"you can anchor a drag bubble, in line with the jump bridges and out of range of the guns, as long as the bubble is on grid it will drag, work out how to do this and the pos guns will never hit you."
"let nullsec be nullsec? ok.. but which nullsec are you referring too? is it the nullsec of 2003? with no stations, outposts, pos, or even bs rats in the belts? the nullsec of 2005? with carriers, and pos? the nullsec of 08? with most of what we have today but far fewer titans and wet noodle motherships? do you still pine for all the op setups of old? the nano ships, the dual mwd ravens, the godly bs with no sig res/exp vel/radius to balance them, the 8 heat sink armageddons, etc?this game is completely unrecognizable from its first incarnation. things change, and one of the things that has changed is afk cloaking having become an effective tactic due to the severe balance and proliferation issues with the supercaps. afk cloaking never really needed to be fixed before, even though its always been a lame tactic, because it was also never a particularly effective tactic... you could do some damage, but not very much. now it is, and it becomes an increasingly effective one, due to the ever increasing supply of ammunition for the hammer of god they can fit in the high slot.it will get fixed eventually, since they rarely let these things go on forever, and as things stand, it will only continually get worse. there will be much wailing and gnashing of teeth, of course. there always is."
"i actually hope it gets fixed soon. there sure will be a lot of threadnoughts about how the removal of local channel kills the game (again), i agree with you there.but in the end people will learn to live without their instant intel tool."
"people want to get rid of the perfect instant intel tool? that instantly shows standings, location, name, etc, with no effort? about time. overview is totally op. i mean, you warp into a grid, and instantly, no matter where, know where everyone is, what ship class they are, range, transversal, iff status, war status, even whether they are targeting or shooting at you? crazyness. it definitely needs to go."
"this should already be implemented. wheres the style? if your in a corporation, or an alliance - why not have a customized logo that can be imprinted onto the ships / stations? it adds a more realistic touch, and would let you distinguish groups of individuals who are rallied together.the concept would be simple.for ships:- whether the ship is small, medium, large, or huge... have a base size for the emblem accordingly. (keep in mind we're talking logos here not paint jobs people)- place the emblems on the sides or top, depending on the ship.for stations:- same concept moving on....to make something like this work, nobody would be able to acquire the same emblem. now, my idea is that we get ccp to use the same concept as they did with the character creator which creates thousands of combinations."
"i'd like to see a boost to armor repair ability like the myrmidon has. since pvp ishtars are likely not to use repairs, this wouldn't affect pvp too greatly, making them just as effective there. however, on the pve field, they would really do well, and this would minimize the passive shield tanked ishtars.supported."
"ishtar is good as is. but 5% medium hybrid turret usually useless.i vote for replacing 5% damage bonus by 5% (7.5%) drone speed bonus."
"hybrid turret bonus is useless due to the ishtar's ridiculously tight cpu capacity."
"the problem with a drone speed bonus is that the ishtar is an almost ideal sentry drone platform. it'd be a shame to redesign the bonuses and ignore sentries entirely. but by adding to hp you reduce the chance that sentries get alphad and give other drones a longer chance to get back to your drone bay when they're under fire. if it was going to be changed to anything, i'd want an hp buff."
"with some fiddling the kite fit can use dual 150s just fine, though still a tight fit cpu-wise.and the extra dps is kinda questionable imo given it comes at the cost of a full rack of neuts...same as with the gila really, a bonus that you aint gonna use normally, though the dmg bonus still is better than missile velocity imo."
"give the ashimmu at least a drone bay where i can fit 5x small drones."
"how about giving a why and where and not just asking for 6 billion isk every time you lose your ship for insurance reasons?"
"the ashimmu is pretty awful presently. i hardly think asking for 5 light drones is 6 billion isk."
"of the faction cruisers, i think it's the most useful. but perhaps that's just me. i would not be opposed to upping the drone bay a little however."
"supported trying to buy ammo or crystals is a royal pita atm."
"yes~!"
"needs a tree view tbh.. bpc, implants, modules..just a search field wont do it.also, what's up with the vertical space used by each and every entry in there? i want an option to get rid of the icon of each offer.."
"if it was indeed ccp tripping over her having divulged comments about them preferring new shinies over fixing existing stuff, then i can see their point. it doesn't matter whether or not everyone knows already, or supects the same: these things were said in confidentiality, and should remain there.ccp is taking a rather unique position in the gaming industry, allowing the csm so much real participation. that trust should not be shamed, even when you hear insider stuff you dislike hearing. that stuff should remain inside chambers; and if you leak it, you should indeed be expelled. if not, ccp can no longer trust the csm, which would mean they would no longer share anything real with them."
"when i say jammed i mean warp jammed :d i always figured jammed was the word to use ah well"
"blah blah blahupdated, added on 1 more topic about drone repair bays, and removed more and changed some of the links to their proper spot.please note updates will be coming slowly now as a lot of issues are getting resolved and others are not that big atm."
"yay for no floating scrap piles!"
"/agree"
"by messing with sig you also drastically reduce the damage they take from fb. down to what bs levels were pre fb nerf."
"signed."
"gallente blaster boats suck. please unsuck them.supported"
"indeed blasters need some love."
"yups"
"frigate with a cruiser-sized dronebay (imagine how big will be 3 attack-ready drones) and signature which is 7 points bigger than a shuttle!? c'mon.i don't know what kind of weed devs smoked creating such ship, but it's totally a nano-cruiser, not the frigate.i see three ways to deal with it's opness:1. remove dronebay. that's illogical to give dronebay with approx. 75-p signature drones in it to a 32-p signature frigate. or, at least, double it's signature.2. nerf it's scan resolution. (990, goddamit, it can lock on anything in 1-2 seconds.)3. nerf it's speed. even dualweb sometimes fail to stop it.it have too much bonuses for a one ship.oh, also make it cost 1 billion. if ppl want such ship with this bonuses they should pay it's real price."
"well i meet a dramiel with my bs once. damn thing is almost as strong as a cruiser. what ever happened to not anyone ship being overpower"
"hi.faction frigates are supposed to be a combination of an assault ship and interceptor. say 60% assault ship and 40% interceptor or 20% assault ship and 80% interceptor.unfortunately the dramiel is 85% assault ship and 120% interceptor.oh well, let the debate continue."
"i'd not be so sure about that. i got 7 dramiel bpcs from running the same 2/10 about 30 times in 5 days. sometimes it'd not drop anything, but i also got a truckload of gistii mwds and small boosters.it does take about 5 minutes to run that plex in an af, and then about 1,5 hours waiting for respawn. some of the locals seem to farm it 23/7."
"i do hope this is sarcasm"
"making it cost around 150 mil solves the problem without nerfing the fun"
"this is eve online, not some other game out there. in case you haven't noticed, eve is all about risk vs. reward. if the dramiel cost 750,000 isk from your local production facility, then it would be overpowered. but there's not enough people willing to pay 75 million isk for a frigate hull that can get popped just as easily as the next one without inflicting some casualties first. i don't know about you, but personally i never understood why there's so many people in other games willing to pay tons of money for insignificant upgrades. maybe it's because in those games you can be assured you'll never lose it.the dramiel also makes a good platform for ultra-expensive frigate modules. good rule of thumb is not to put expensive stuff on cheap crap, or you might as well haul it out to jita and jettison it.all in all, the dramiel makes a good isk sink. if it's more powerful than other faction frigates, then talk about that. but being powerful because it's a faction frigate goes without saying because it's expensive."
"obviously"
"if true then that is a good place to start, although at 1.5hr respawn you are looking at 16 maximum per day if loot-gods are on crack. unless there loads of those plexes around then they are can not be the main source.massive overkill. it just needs a 30% price hike to be in line with the rest of the frigates (~100-110m).equalize the agents for factions and it sorts itself out. given a choice between the daredevil and the dramiel, i think most \"real\" pvp'ers will opt for the former if it wasn't for the bargain priced dramiel."
"this won't fix the problem, it only escalates it. since the only reasonable counter to the dramiel, is the dramiel (go have a look at how dramiels have completely changed factional warfare minor plexes), without rolling some fairly vulnerable ab/scram/web setup on an af. it means that less people are able to counter them, 7km/s sacrileges and ishtars costed 3-4 billion, and look how they ended up."
"i killed 2 dramiels in 1 week. and another dramiel 2 weeks ago. i was using sniper lokii am against nerfing dramiel performance because i know it's possible to kill one in anything but solo frigate - once you get it tackled. of course, getting that initial tackle is the most difficult part. but that's where the fun is - killing an expensive and difficult ship.unlike supercarriers, that simply cannot be killed by anything short of a mega alliance blob, this ship can be killed by a 6 month noob in a caracal - if he is fitted properly and catches the dram pilot on a mistake.of course it's difficult, and players tend to whine when they encounter something difficult. but jeez, some of us actually like the challenge. there are plenty of easy things to kill. there's no need to eliminate all the hard parts from eve"
"supported."
"that's a nice wall of text, finn, but i'm not going to read it. you know why? because i don't have to anymore.the first reason i started this debate was on the odds i could convince you. failing that, i continued debating because you were worth it; then you brought up my character. an ad hominem is any retort to an argument which grounds itself upon the character of one of the debaters. when you brought into question my experience with the game, you crossed a line which should never, ever be crossed. that you did not explicitly call me wrong because of my apparently lack of experience is effectively irrelevant; you weren't aiming to seek answers or a way to better explain yourself, you were aiming to discredit me on character grounds and you hoped that i either wouldn't notice the massive hole in your debate strategy or else would be too flustered to formulate a response. even disregarding how insulting it is that you think i'd be too stupid to notice the gap, you still managed, in a single post, to shatter any and all credibility you might have had.to put it another way, you're not worth my time, and after that pathetically low swipe i no longer have anything to lose by refusing to argue with you.have a nice day.or don't."
"excellent factual rebuttal. truly. yeepers.this, on the other hand, may be the funniest thing you've ever written. wrong.and also a dishonest recitation of what actually happened. i did not point to your \"character\" but your knowledge, experience, and understanding. i also asked this and explicitly allowed that you could potentially fulfill all three categories, but you steadfastly refused to answer the questions or detail where your lack of knowledge, experience or understanding lay. you also started, and are continuing, to inaccurately cry \"ad hominem!\" your attempt at mind-reading to the contrary, that's exactly what i was doing. i was, of course, also pointing out the fully relevant facts that without knowledge, experience, and understanding, you could not have an informed discussion and your position would, perforce, be based on error and ignorance. that, of course, is the real reason you can not or will not answer. your righteous indignation and hilarious anger is a cover for the fact that you simply can not explain what tee's are in game, why they work the way they do, how they're balanced, how they relate to solo/group play, etc... complain about ad hom fallacies that don't actually exist all you like, but it's quite clear that you will not answer the core questions about the subject."
"no."
"we didn't want to be able to answer those questions anyway!"
"don't forget can warp."
"ah, dranzer, i see you were being predictably honest when you claimed that you were done responding to my arguments, and predictably honest by substituting \"drones are not ships\" for \"drones have similarities with ships but are essentially and vitally different from ships.\" don't forget how drones are not ships, because they're drones, and someone who pretends that similarity is equivalence is trolling. anybody who remains confused on that point does so because they want to, it's the very definition of willful ignorance. so at this point you're trolling.this is obvious. if you'd said that drones are more similar to ships than missiles, you'd have a point. but that's the fundamental level of dishonesty you're using, comparing two classes of things that are very obviously not ships, and claiming that one is a ship, not that it is similar but essentially different. equally obvious is the fact that you were being dishonest when you claimed that you weren't going to be responding to my arguments, obviously you still are, but you're using a dishonest dodge to avoid responding to the subject, and instead using your faux-outrage to avoid addressing what you actually knows about how eve works. (any time now)this is, as stated, the reason that you refuse to answer any questions about what tee's are, how they're set up in eve, how they're balanced, how they fit into the schema of eve, etc... and instead pretend that it's an ad hom fallacy (and a line that one must never, ever cross!!!!). just more dishonesty.or if we're using pictures..."
"interesting....so finn, you're saying drones cannot repair their master's ship because we can't target our own ship, right? but if we can't target our own ship, why the drones recognize the command to return to drone bay? by your logic, i have to target myself and order the drones to return to the targeted ship drone bay. instead, we only have to select a submenu and told them to return.following the logic and the mechanic of \"return to drone bay\", why we can't issue a command to the drones to repair the ship controlling them?"
"i don't know what you're rambling about, finn. i just made a factually accurate checklist and put one of your quotes on it."
"wrong. that is only one facet of the discussion. \"by your logic\" does not mean \"a totally different argument that i'm attributing to you now.\" and you really should read the thread, several people have tried to get around game mechanics by claiming that they should just have a right click menu to make their drones convert into a local repper, it's been dealt with.since dranzer seems to realize that changing the subject is his only defense against having to explain game combat mechanics that he's ignorant of despite his massive 17 kills in 6 years of game play, perhaps you'd like to discuss how tee's work and why? yes, you do. it's the same dishonesty as your claim that you won't address my arguments are you keep addressing them, but only dishonestly addressing those you've cherrypicked. or that you won't talk about what tee's are, how they function, why, etc... because game mechanics are an ad hominem attack on you. it's the same dishonesty whereby you try to substitute \"drones are no more ships than missiles are ships\" which is 100% true since neither are ships, for \"drones are not more similar to ships than missiles are\". since both drones and missiles are not ships, drones are no more ships than missiles are ships, because neither are ships.and you know it. and you're trolling. feel free to answer those dreadful \"ad hominem\" questions about how game mechanics work, any day now."
"hey, you're the one who started throwing the term around. you present the term, you make the definition. don't come whining to me just because i don't feel like doing your job for you.trolling is such a nasty word. at this point i'm just sort of taking amusement in your bumbling incompetence. trolling implies i'm saying things that i know are incorrect just to irritate you. maybe you'd feel better if you brought up my corp history or something. it's pretty bad!but okay, i'll throw your bone.let's say i accept what you're saying: drones aren't ships. remote reps are targeted external effects. you can't order your drones to rep you because you can't target yourself.okay.so what?nobody is denying this would be a change. it wouldn't be a proposal if it didn't involve changing anything. what the change would serve to do is make drones more like remote controlled robotic mini-ships and less like arbitrarily detatched turrets and modules. the benefits have been stated, but to restate them: it would add more gameplay choices, and it'd also better conform to the expectations of the majority (see: my original post in this thread and the various people who quoted it).so, now that we agree that this would indeed be a change, do you have any reasons against that change? besides the fact that it is a change, i mean. because that isn't really a reason."
"wait a minute.... a change in the badly broken drone mechanics?scary, hum?!?!"
"wait a minute.... a change in the badly broken drone mechanics?scary, hum?!?!subjects seem to be on sale, they keep getting changed so frequently. so now dranzer and you both refuse to answer what tee's are, and how they work in game. curiouser and curiouser. there are some minor problems with drone mechanics, but treating tee's as local effects is not one of them. hrm, you've been refusing to respond to my arguments in the posts that have been responding to my arguments for, what, six posts now? funny, that...wow. do you really not even know what tee's are? i thought that with your grand total of under 20 kills in five years of playing the game that you simply didn't understand some of the interactions, but can it really be that you have no idea what they are at all? yet again, answer the questions i've put to you, very plainly. the fact that you are again trying to change the subject shows that, just like your \"ad hominem!\" dodge, you're trying to change the subject for exactly the same reason here; you simply cannot answer the questions and trying to do so would reveal the fact that your position is based on ignorance and error. more trolling. \"what i'm saying\"? the fact is that drones are not ships, they are drones. ships are not drones, ships are ships. drones are not ships, drones are drones. this is sesame street level stuff here, but you pretend that it's beyond you. yet again, identify how and why tee's work. you're proposing to change mechanics that you simply do not understand, and it's clear why you keep changing the subject."
"you identify how and why tee's work. my argument doesn't depend on the term, but yours sure seems to. do your own homework.the change is extremely simple. add button to interface. push button. drones lock you and start repping you. you might argue that i don't understand the implications of the change, or the potential consequences of that change, but the change itself is not even remotely difficult to grasp.you still haven't given a reason against the change, by the way."
"and still posting about my arguments after you've said you refused to do that.again proving that your dodge was really because you're unable to show that your position isn't based on ignorance or error. yet again, any time now:what, do you think, is the purpose of a targeted external effect? why are they external rather than local, did ccp just flip a coin? why are they reliant on being directed against a locked target in order to achieve specificity, is that random? how do these mechanics mesh with the concept of a cooperative engagement between disparate elements, and how does allowing external effects to duplicate local effects alter the schema and balance between the three types of slots, drone loadouts, and cooperative/solo play? is it just coincidence that there are logi ships, local reppers, buffers and resist tanks? more trolling. the game mechanics involved are not whether or not you have to press a button. again, yet another attempt to change the subject so you don't have to describe the actual game mechanics involved. yet more dishonesty. i have continually pointed out that they're tee's, and you have continually responded by falsely claiming that the fact that they're tee's means nothing. in an attempt to find out how much of your lack of comprehension was due to ignorance and how much was trolling, i asked you several very clear questions. you're still refusing to answer them. and your dishonesty about \"ad hominems\" that you made up, or whatever else, was and is being used as a dodge because you can not answer them."
"let me just pull a quote straight out of my python interpreter:traceback (most recent call last): file \"<finnagain zero>\", line 5, in <last post>nameerror: name 'targeted external effect' is not definedi can't argue about the meaning of tees or their implications or any of that until you define the term. i'm not doing this just to **** you off, i'm saying that you're throwing around a term which i literally do not have a definition of in my memory. i have never heard the term used outside of this conversation, and though i can approximate the meaning of the term, it is clear that my interpretations are insignificant, or we wouldn't be arguing. either put it in dictionary form or point me in the direction of a webpage that has already done so, but until then, stop *****ing about my refusal to talk about it, because to me, it doesn't mean anything. i don't mean it is insignificant or not worth discussing, i mean it literally does not ****ing mean anything to me. you could be saying \"floozle boggle effects\" instead and i would be in exactly the same position. christ, and you accuse me of intentional stupidity.if your reason against the change has something to do with tees, then define the damned term and state your reasons for opposing the change directly or else shut the hell up."
"and now we see that i was completely correct: any time now."
"i have never heard the term outside of this thread. i may understand the concept by a different name or only by definition.please give me the definition of the term as you know it so that i may better understand you and respond to your inquiries."
"yah, you honestly don't know what effects are external and targeted, it's a mystery! get back to me when you feel like discussing game mechanics rather than claiming that apples really are oranges."
"okay, my bad. i thought i misunderstood you; i was wrong. you're just not very bright.nobody is proposing a change to the remote rep mechanics.we're proposing a change to drone control mechanics.remote reps would remain completely unaltered by this proposal."
"yeah, nobody has been talking about remote rep drones and... oh. and, of course, i haven't pointed out something like a dozen times that directing drones, any type at all, are a tee (despite your trolling about how you can too make drones engage a specific ship they haven't targeted, because they can orbit you). so faced with the question, that you are still avoiding, of what tee's are, how they work, how they're balanced, etc... you'd prefer to say that since drones aren't one sub-type of tee, that you'll just focus on remote reps and ignore everything else. or to claim that the game mechanics are irrelevant, because the only mechanic at work is whether or not you press a button. have you considered stopping trolling?"
"drones aren't effects. they're entities. the drones in and of themselves project effects, but they are not effects any more than a missile is an effect. a missile is another type of entity. the damage a missile does is an effect. entities actually exist within destiny, effects don't. effects are functions, entities are objects.your statement is simply false. drones are not targeted external effects. they are remote controlled entities. rces, not tees.you're the one comparing apples to oranges, finn. not me."
"so are you trolling now, or were you trolling when you claimed that drones are ships?and more dodging, now you won't identify how tee's work because you're pretending that targeting ships and applying effects to them doesn't count if you use a drone. \"repairing someone with a remote repper isn't a tee, it's a remote repping effect, an rre, reppers aren't effects, they're modules! you're comparing unlike things, because things that aren't ships are ships, and those things that aren't ships are more ships than other things that also aren't ships!\" again, care to stop trolling?"
"that's not a good argument. on the other had, i wouldbe tired of arguing with the troll by now. and finnagain zero, nobody cares what tee's are. because it does not matter. all that matters is that drones can't do something they should be doing because someone forgot to make a button for it. and supporting"
"my statement that \"drones are ships\" was indeed incorrect. i retract the statement and apologize for it. it was a statement made in haste, and i was focusing on the wrong aspect. in retrospect, not only is the statement incorrect, the question of if drones are ships or not is actually completely irrelevant. it was not a troll; simply wrong. i will note in my defense however that the statement was not meant to be taken literally.no evasion. tees work as they do; externally projected effects that depend on targeting systems of the host. in this case, the host of a drone's tees is the drone itself. that's why you can stop a drone from shooting you by either putting distance between you and the drone or by jamming the drone. nobody is suggesting any change to the basic mechanics of tees.this proposal is only about drone control. drones are rces. we're interested in modifying the control aspects of the drone, not the effects it projects. the effects it has would literally remain completely unchanged.a drone is not an effect. that's not an opinion, it's just a statement of fact. take it up with the server programmers if you don't like it.just because somebody is pointing out the holes in your logic does not make them a troll."
"nice edit there by the way, interesting how you went from pointing out that dranzer had lost credibility by refusing to answer questions that he couldn't answer (and which he has yet to answer), to claiming that he'd simply used a 'not good argument', to claiming that i'm trolling while dranzer has been trolling in quite a few posts now (notice, for instance, his claim that he doesn't have to talk about game mechanics because they're an ad hominem fallacy). that's funny.and, obviously some people don't care what tee's are, but pretending that the nature, balance and use of tee's doesn't matter in a discussion of altering tee's is, shall we say, less than persuasive. yes, some people just want their drones to be able to repair themselves. and i'm sure some people want guardians to have the ability to convert their remote reps into a local tank by right clicking their mods, too. that doesn't make the nature, balance and use of tee's immaterial there, either. while it's good that you now retract it, it was a statement that you made several times and argued as if it was true, and not a figure of speech. but ah well. good, so you do understand what tee's are, despite your earlier claims that1) you do not understand2) there is nothing to understand as the phrase is meaninglesswill you know answer the questions i have put to you? no. as already identified, you can not direct a drone to engage anything specific without the mothership locking it. (despite your \"i can direct drones to engage things even if i don't lock them, and by that i mean they can orbit me\") that drones then have their own specific sub-set of conditions under which they operate does not mean that their directed effects are not tee's that pilots command. you're suggesting that pilots should be able to apply remote repair without a target lock. nonsense upon nonsense. it's like a nonsense onion. as already pointed out, the effects that drones use are tee's, and claiming that you can ignore that because drones are \"entities\" is as absurd as claiming that remote reppers can be ignored because they're not \"effects\", they're \"modules\". and no, the effects would not remain at all \"unchanged\", that's just another layer of nonsense. pilots directing remote reps at themselves is hardly \"literally completely unchanged\"."
"edit was there because i when back and red more of your arguments. and he did loose credibility by saying \"i am not going to read this\", but i came to the conclusion his arguments are still more credible than yours. and look, i never even stated that you where trolling, you sayd it yourself^^ and i agree with you. we aren't changing tee. that's why nobody cared what tee is.simularly, if i propose to change ammo size nobody should care what tee is, because it's irrelevant to the topic, and sidetracks the argument. i don't know what people want, but i know what they ask for: for drones to be able to repair anyone but themselves. nobody asked a logistics drone to repair itself. and i want to have doomsday on my ishtar, and i want a ferrary... should i go on? it's still just as irrelevant as what you are talking about.yes, a drone can engage target without mothership ever locking it. i can get my drones to kill you without ever locking you if that is what it takes to stop you lying here. this just does not get any point across if a pilot can apply damage without a target lock, might as well apply reps.my sensor dampener is also a tee, still irrelevant to the discussion"
"i suppose so, but they're a bit spread out. it might be best if you restated them.but they aren't tees that the pilot commands. how many tees do you have which continue repeatedly influencing the targeted ship after you've been jammed? if you argue that drones are tees, they have a dozen bizarre clauses to them. if you argue that drones are rces with their own tees, everything else falls into place cleanly, with the only oddity being that they can't target the host ship; something which can easily be explained as an interface oversight.no, i'm suggesting drones should be able to target their host ship.the difference between effect and entity is enormous. the difference between modules and effects is largely arbitrary; technically, modules are modifiers which grant tees to the ships they're fit to. those tees may be granted by a module, but they're still tees.i'm kind of having trouble wrapping my head around how you must perceive drones in your mind. i've always seen them as small remote controlled robot ships. from what i gather you seem to perceive them as some bizarre semi-detached module missile hybrid. does it not strike you as odd that rep drones are categorised as logistic drones instead of remote repair drones? as in, logistic ships?again, if you want to talk balance, talk balance. that's an interesting discussion which may actually have merit. but otherwise, your only objection so far seems to be that host-targeting drones would violate some design paradigm which, as far as i can tell, exists nowhere but within your own mind.i'm going to go to bed. don't hastily type up a response. take your time and think about all this, because i really am having a hard time understanding your mindset. i don't particularly care about the popularity ****ing contest of the forums; i grew out of that years ago. i just want to make eve a better place, and this is the best way i know to do it.cheers."
"please stop lying and trolling. thanks. remote reps that can be local or remote as a click, don't require a lock, are 100% independent of a ship's capacitor, etc... yah, that's not changing them at all. a guardian being able to apply tee's to itself is the same relevant issue as any other ship applying tee's to itself, including ships that have drone bays. changing what tee's are and how they work is relevant no matter which ship we're talking about. again, kindly stop lying and trolling. especially stop lying in order to claim that by stating facts about the game, i'm lying. you can not get your drones to engage a specific target without locking it. notice the word specific? it means something. it actually means something. and again you ignore the issue. pilots can not apply targeted, external damage without a lock. they can have drones use aggro rules to apply damage to any random thing that fulfills them, even one of your own fleet mates who accidentally turns a gun on you for one cycle when he meant to click on a repper. you can use aoe weapons, but they hit anything a tall that's within range. they still lack all specificity. you're also ignoring the relevance of the nature, use, balance of tee's. a fleet of guardians which no longer have to lock anything in order to direct remote reps at them is not something to shrug off with \"might as well apply reps\".you think that being able to damp out an enemy that you're not targeting, or even damp things out when you're permajammed, or applying remote reps to yourself or to others without having to lock them or while being jammed out is not relevant to being able to use tee's without a lock and/or locally? ah well, i guess."
"cannot support this. mechanics are good as it is, thx."
"nice ideas abound in this thread."
"some very interesting idea's going on in this thread. support."
"absolutely agree"
"i checked and you are correct -- there was a communications glitch.this item has been completed, and if it is not on sisi it will be soon. it is scheduled to go live with the full incursion release in january."
"supported."
"then please check the box that says \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on.\" it's in the window where you write comments."
"everything seems to be in order. i've often wanted to be able to order my drones to protect or orbit somebody else."
"supporting some love for drones."
"i support this; as i think improved drone control ability would allow players to deal with other drones and fighters more effectively."
"anything to make those dumbasses more intelligent, and as many modes as possible, overview-like- yes, custom setting-yes, select target without actually having to target anything (falcon pilots?).attack anything with low standings?note that this involves no improvement to the drones themselves, no extra dps or tankplease new drone ui and shortcuts. where is \"launch group xxx and set mode xxx\"? where is \"launch all drones and attack the target\"?and what about a few more drone upgrades to spice up the experience and a couple extra drone implants? officer drones?i can already control 2 drones with a single ship by telling all drones to assist my main. supporting all drones and hybrids improvements since 2007."
"hello.could you please add hardwire implants to the character sheet? i know it's not really skill related, but right now, if you have full api, you can see pretty much anything, including bank account, assets, how much **** the person has downloaded, what kind of shoes he is wearing, whether is girlfriend is pregnant and what attributes the baby will have, but you can't find the hardwire implants anywhere.thanks!"
"yeah, just make active rr modules invoke the same penalties as weapon's fire. should do for low-sec if they get an aggro counter that disallows them to jump/dock immediately."
"i present, the coward set:attribute enhancersslot 1: coward alpha - this ocular filter has been modified by northern coalition scientists for use by their elite super capital carebears.primary effect: +5 bonus to perceptionsecondary effect: -2% bonus to 15 minute aggression timerset effect: 15% bonus to the strength of all coward implant secondary effectsnote: double effect on capital class ships.slot 2: coward beta - this ocular filter has been modified by northern coalition scientists for use by their elite super capital carebears.primary effect: +5 bonus to memorysecondary effect: -4% bonus to 15 minute aggression timerset effect: 15% bonus to the strength of all coward implant secondary effectsnote: double effect on capital class ships.slot 3: coward gamma - this ocular filter has been modified by northern coalition scientists for use by their elite carebears.primary effect: +5 bonus to willpowersecondary effect: -6% bonus to 15 minute aggression timerset effect: 15% bonus to the strength of all coward implant secondary effectsnote: double effect on capital class ships.slot 4: coward delta - this ocular filter has been modified by northern coalition scientists for use by their elite carebears.primary effect: +5 bonus to intelligencesecondary effect: -8% bonus to 15 minute aggression timerset effect: 15% bonus to the strength of all coward implant secondary effectsnote: double effect on capital class ships.slot 5: coward epsilon - this ocular filter has been modified by northern coalition scientists for use by their elite carebears.primary effect: +5 bonus to charismasecondary effect: -10% bonus to 15 minute aggression timerset effect: 15% bonus to the strength of all coward implant secondary effectsnote: double effect on capital class ships.hardwiringsslot 6: coward omega - this implant does nothing in and of itself, but when used in conjunction with other coward implants it will boost their effect.primary effect: 50% bonus to the strength of all coward implant secondary effectsnote: double effect on capital ships.slot 7: privateer implants 'lily-livered' lol1000 - a neural interface upgrade that boosts the pilot's skill in the operation of station windows. +249km view range when staring outside.slot 8: orphanage implants 'dippy' doh2000 - a neural interface upgrade that boosts the pilot's skill in the destruction of wrecks with plex in them.slot 9: ussr implants '<U+043E><U+043C><U+043A><U+044F>' 4000 - a neural interface increases the pilot's income when operating automatic pilot programs while afk.slot 10: goonswarm implants 'bitter' sob5000 - a neural interface upgrade that reduces the pilot's skill in making quality post on forums.what do you think?"
"8/10 for effort"
"this get's my support, great idea"
"fresh and well executed, 9/10."
"supported"
"at first i was a bit put off by the idea of changing your physical features, but i guess it could happen. you spend some time in the gym and get buff, spend 6 months in your pod and go all gooey. maybe you go to the dermatologist and get those scars buffed out. park your ship at 0 on the sun for a few hours and now you've got some freckles. new colored contacts maybe? one thing that would have to be implemented to maintain some level of realism (<---hahaha) would be the destruction/loss of any clothing/tattoos etc if you get podded."
"you should be able to change your mood (smile, frown, etc.) for free.to be able to change features on your body (like muscles) you should need to pay for a new clone"
"title says it all, there is no sensible readon not to, they already exist in the item database and the npc corps that should sell them are already knownshould take ccp like 10 minutes to add the code with no balancing issues"
"there are survey probes on market at reasonable prices, i thus assume that they have bpos seeded...so what are you talking about?"
"probes are npc seeded blueprints are not"
"then go there, duh. u want the freedom of preemptively shooting at them, take the risk of being preemptively shot yourself. 'cause if it's sooo horrible like u make it out to be, then going outside high sec would actually be better for u. they're already fair game. wait for them to glow flashy red, then leech your easy and effortless killmail."
"no see he wants other people's safety gone while safety is actually increased. he doesn't want a fair fight"
"full support. after a suicide gank, kill right on the ganker should extend to everyone in highsec, not just the victim. it's a criminal, why would concord care if i shoot him sometime in the next month? gankers should be fair game."
"exactly. proposal's just a selfish whine 'cause of all these pathetic scared \"pirates\" who can't handle risk when it's on the high sec alts they hide behind."
"after a sucessful suicide gank, kill right on ganker extends to everyone, not just the victim.suicide gankers are criminals, so why would concord care if i shoot them? they ought to be fair game. this is not about padding kb on failfit gank bses, i would be performing a public service! such nobility should definitely not be concorded.they choose to suicide gank for big profit. so i should be able to shoot them for kills. as the saying goes \"stay out of the kitchen if you can't take the heat.\""
"1. nice duplicate thread and post, bro.2. concord doesn't care if u shoot them...as long as u wait for them to shoot first.3. and we're performing a great service to the public by keeping the exhumer and mineral values up. 4. not everyone chooses to gank for profit and once again, u can shoot them. hell, u can even steal their loot.5. yeah, fyi, there's already a place u can run and hide in complete safety--dock. u might wanna try that sometime if u can't even handle surviving in high sec."
"so basically you're against it because you're a ganker and want to keep concord protection? too transparent."
"if by \"protection\" u mean getting concordoken when i do gank someone, then sure, it's fine. and conversely, u're for it 'cause u're a high sec alt of your pirate main 'cause u can't handle risk when it's on u? and that's why u want to hog all the concord protection to yourself? too transparent and pathetic."
"so how does this work with proper pirates, when they kill someone in low sec they become a criminal in the same way (gcc and so on) even if they arent negative 10 so if i have killed someone in low sec then enter high will i be killable"
"since lowsec kills do not trigger concord response at the gank site, i'd assume it's not covered."
"i completely agree with this post. i couldn't have said it better myself.suicide ganking = goodeasy suicide ganking = badi think the heart of the problem lies with insurance. it seems to favor the ganker, whose ship is all they spent on the gank. but the person who got ganked wasn't able to insure the goods they were carrying or the modules on their ship, which got stolen to make profit for the gankers.i'm going to make a proposal about a change to insurance, and i'd like any input you guys can give."
"how would the system determine what is and is not a gank? any highsec kill is considered a gank? presumably you'd have to at least make an exception for corps at war with one another. so then once i kill any number of non-wardec'd ships in highsec my ganker alt has a permanent blemish that allows anyone to shoot me for potentially no good reason in highsec.at that point i'd just bio my alt and make a new one, which means your proposal would encourage breaking the rules. there's an easy way around the harsh penalty op is suggesting and there is no empirical basis that this kind of heavy-handed action is necessary.i am heartily against this proposal, because it represents the absolute worst in legislation.and as a side note, op said that concord protects suicide gankers. they do not, they don't protect either party until a gun goes off. if you see a bunch of people warping around in phoons and you're in a hulk, then maybe the best thing to do is dock. just because you choose to look at a gang of ships and label them as gankers who should be shot at doesn't mean concord can or should support that evaluation.there is already a well-established and elegantly simple system for dealing with suicide gankers: security status. if you want to make it harder for them to buff their sec back up, or make the penalty for highsec aggression more severe, then make a proposal about that. at least that doesn't involve the creation of a new gameplay mechanic to deal with what is, so far as i can tell (as you have not provided any evidence despite being asked for it), a personal issue with gankers."
"wow the tears of the bears is soo amzing in this thread. if i choose to gank someone in highsec, it is my choice and it is to the detriment of the target. partially cause we want his killmail, partially cause we want the loots (not guarenteed to drop), partially we want this right here all the tears.why should ratting and hauling in highsec be 100% safe. if you think im gonna mug you and you shoot me, well sir you are the criminal not i. if you don't shoot me and i mug you im the criminal, and im probably going to jail for it eventually. but til then i can enjoy the spoils of my crime. its the same in highsec, concord is the police they arent gonna choose sides till one side acts first. what you want is free rain to get rid of everyong in highsec who doesnt want highsec safe. all you cnr pilots who semi afk run missions and grind lp, deserve to be ganked cause there is basically no risk in your eve career otherwise. yes highsec missioners are buying a large portion of the faction mods/deadspace/ officer mods but hey if you werent they'd be cheaper and thats good for us pvpers. :)stop complaining cause the little bit of the eve sandbox that exists in highsec is getting in your shoe. lets just be clear theres a good chance that every one of the people supporting this is putting their name on a gank list just cause your tears would be epic. yelling and screaming in local, complaining about how it isnt fair, how you worked soo hard for that estamels invuln, how you support your family using rmt isk. o wait what.... thats right the majority of rmt isk comes from highsec afk ratters in pimp boats... crazy want eve to be fair deadspace missions should be 0.0 rules no concord.lvl 4's should be lowsec only lvl 5's 0.0 only lvl 4's and 5's should have more neut batteries.and they should warp distrupt and warp scram.now its fair theres is risk to making 40+ mil an hour missioning.let the tears flow please.flame me pleasecause you know its true, before sanctums there was no where in 0.0 you could make the same kind of isk you make chain running lvl 4's not to mention lvl 5's. after sanctums there was an equivalent between lvl 4's and lvl 5's. heres the thinking highsec is safest, least risk, least rewardlowsec is moderately dangerous, with moderate risks, moderate reward0.0 is highly dangerous (unless your good about monitoring your space), with high risk, and high reward. but right now highsec is safest with highest rewardlowsec is worthless with no reason to go there0.0 is most dangerous with a decent reward.if we did as i said above which is move lvl 4's to lowsec and 5s to 0.0 that would even out. but to do this they would need to add empire 0.0 space, which would also be cool."
"i like the idea of moving level 4 missions out of highsec. there needs to be more than just ice in lowsec. also maybe make some stuff cost more nocxium. the only reason its price is decent is because there's nobody mining it ever since operation unholy rage killed off half of the macro miner output. and either nerf jaspet or take it out of highsec, cause that stuff gives about the same amount of nocxium as hemorphite or hedbergite which are supposed to be worth more because they're rarer."
"agreed though the noxcium spike is a bit woah. i agree that both ratting and mining in highsec should be less profitable than lowsec which should be less profitable than 0.0. the whole idea being eventually moving people out of highsec into lowsec then into 0.0, not living in highsec your entire career in eve but making as much or more than 0.0 pilots with next to no risk"
"double"
"after reading a few of the local chat threads i conclude that most people want a little uncertainty what's going on. miners and pve-ers want to know who's going to gank them and want to hide as long as possible them, gankers on the other side don't want their victims to know they're going to gank them. as it stands local shows up every threat or every opportunity immediately and all the time. in fleet battles, gatecamps, etc both sides know what they're up against (except for capital warfare with cyno's/jump portals). there is no tactical opportunity for either sides. we should think about a solution that gives both sides a tactical opportunity. the one with better intel skills (i don't mean a skill book but you're very own skills) wins. also, i have a problem with many of the new features and idea proposals that are not logical/coherent. taking in all these requirement ive been thinking and came to a few solutions :1: local chat still exists. you will show in local chat to everyone if you talk. other pilots will show if they are within a certain range, the range should be a fixed value for everyone and is not modifiable by skills or whatever.2: local chat still exists like any other channel but you will only appear if you talk. detection of other pilots is detached from local chat and can be done through a new (compact) window or in another panel in the scanner, also with a fixed range.i leave the detection range open to debate. this has to be calculated depending on average system span and other conditions.one problem that can make this solution unworkable is that it might overload the server but i'm not sure about this.since it could rely on the detection that is already done by the overview. the overview updates the distance between your and other ships in real time and even other values like velocity, radial velocity, transversal velocity and angular velocity. i don't know if the game manages solar systems differently from viewable distance spheres. also, is it possible to detect a player who is in deadspace doing a mission and calculate if he is within range?this solution could open a lot of strategic possibilities, both defensive and offensive. examples :- you could put a bait covetor to lure an attacking group away and give a big mining operation more time to evacuate.- place a few pilots as detectors to cover several gates, for mining operations, fleet battles, ...- a ganker can enter a system without being noticed immediately, he has an advantage over his prey but he doesn't know what he's up against, how many people in space/station that could come to help, a trap ...- it will be harder for an enemy to attack your homebase, but if they prepare the attack with enough intel the advantage can turn to the their side.this would also reduce the lag created in trade hubs since there are far less people that show up in local chat."
"i had this debate in corp ts the other day.it came down to people who want pvp and people who want to avoid pvp.it is nearly impossible to catch someone ratting if they are aligned and paying attention. before you come out of warp they are in warp off grid. with or without local the only difference is when they enter warp. with local they enter warp to a safe spot the minute you enter system 100% safe, theres almost no way in hell to catch them, minus awoxing (using blue alts to tackle). without local they see you entering grid or on directional and enter warp. fair chance you'll catch them, and a fair chance they will get away. problem alot of people have with getting rid of local is its free information, giving up something that was free is always hard. this is why they always compromise with a better directional scanner a passive one (still free intel.) i'd be all for a better d-scanner but i would never agree to a passive one. the reasons i wish to eliminate local, if i wanna rat noone will know im ratting, if i wanna camp a cyno beacon with a cloaky noone knows im there. if i wanna go afk in a pos noone knows im there. if i want to camp a gate noone knows im there. key words are noone knows im there.because how would they? especially if you have a cloak, cant see you visually cant detect you so how do they know your sitting there in a rapier?if im out of directional scan range of you why should you know im there? answer me that?"
"it is not absolutely impossible to fit a covert ops cloak on a bs. there just doesn't exist one that can bother, yet.actually, that is not an argument in your favor. the invention-bpc system removes the absolute associated with the t2-bpos.eccm iistacking penalize eccm and that problem will disappear immediately. again, not an argument in your favor as exploits are not applicable.i didn't think you could get any more absurd. there is nothing that says you absolutely can't fit or fly anything you want... you just have to have the skills.rules are not what i'm talking about. i'm talking about guaranteed consequences outside of the bounds of rules a true sandbox would have. ie concord is not a sandbox rule. it is an arbitrary absolute designed to put sand down someone else's pants when they put sand down yours in the wrong part of the sandbox.basically, security status is a constraint, concord is an arbitrary absolute."
"well, i actuall think passive one would be good, because clicking the scan button for 3 hours straight while rattin does get a bit on my nerves.how about a simple option to close local? then you don't appear in local, but you cannot see other people there? just add a little cross!"
"free intel is free. free is bad making you work for your intel means lazy people won't and they will suffer for it but active people will do it and will be rewarded for it"
"after a sucessful suicide gank, kill right on ganker extends to everyone, not just the victim.suicide gankers are criminals, so why would concord care if i shoot them? they ought to be fair game. this is not about padding kb on failfit gank bses, i would be performing a public service! such nobility should definitely not be concorded."
"criminals are fair game, let whomever wants a piece, get it, without concord protecting the criminal, with the understanding that ganker can fire back. normal killrights rules apply. a good first step in eventually abolishing concord for a structured player ran policing mechanic."
"this is totally unnecessary. suicide gankers did a criminal act and were punished for it by ship destruction and reduced sec rating. the negative consequenses for their action has already been delivered by concord, so there is no reason to allow random people to shoot them in addition to this. if their sec rating drops too low, people are already allowed to shoot them at will.i'll end this by a fail real life comparison. even if you are filled with righterous vengence and think the justice system lets criminals off too easily, it doesn't mean the cops will ignore you while you go shoot up some ex-criminal in the name of justice. you aren't doing a public service, you are just a crazy vigilante guilty of perpetrating criminal acts and undermining the rule of law, and you deserve to get your ass concorded for it.not supported.edit: come to think of it how would this be a bad thing for the suicide ganker? with a killright system available only for the victim, and hopefully another person of his choosing at some point in the future, he can inflict the punishment when the ganker has something of value to lose. this creates an unknown risk for the actual ganker, that has a potential to actually hurt him. with a general killright system you just force the ganker to do one extra step after the gank(have friend/alt shoot his free ship) and as a bonus he no has no risk of getting hit when he has something of value to lose. so basicly this just removes an existing risk factor from suicide ganking and introduces a minor inconvenience to replace it. yay?"
"love the idea, makes sense!"
"if this is a permanent killright not supported, if like the current killright system where you only get to kill them onve still not supported, as the ganker can just pop his shuttle using an alt and then no more kill rights"
"i don't want kill-rights cluttering up my character sheet on some **** that is probably going to be recycled when his sec.status tanks (yes, even if it is illegal, go figure).kill-rights should be commodities. fixes most problems pertaining to suicides and makes pirates hunted prey (more pew!)."
"this is the right spirit. the other not. not supported."
"so when the ganker kills someone in highsec, that ganker's name is put into everyone's kill rights tab?if that is the case, then this is a terrible idea. from a technical perspective it is highly inefficient, it puts personally unrelated items into my personal character sheet, and it is trying to deal with a problem that already has a solution (sure, you can say that security status isn't enough of a penalty for suicide ganking, but that's a separate argument). i think you want something like \"sanctioned aggression,\" not the existing kill rights system.for what it's worth, i don't support the idea of sanctioned aggression either."
"i'm sure ccp can make public killrights not show up on your list, or make a separate list, if they want to. seems like a minor issue to an otherwise solid concept."
"duplicate topics rock stop the forum **** stick to one topicherethis would never work, as a player based law enforcement structure would be inherently corrupt. because there is no consequences or justice system to punish the corrupt. what would stop a player based law system from taking bribes and controlling highsec with a dictatorship like approach, instead of democratic system. picture a 0.0 entity with the power control over highsec."
"checks and balances. with the right incentives, someone who enrolled in the police will do the work, even if corrupt ones ignore it. there will always be some level of corruption just like irl, but in a well ran system, it will be limited. but this is all conjecture down the road. i was only thinking of revamping the killright system at the time, nothing more. still, the idea sounds interesting. everything in eve is supposed to be turned to player ran eventually, so why not police? people ran the police irl, not some kind of god that has an iq of a coconut. if it can be done there, it can be done here. eve imitates life."
"very true except that biomassing your self in real life is a one time thing. you dont have to worry about jail in game, or being a criminal, or the police, cause its a game. in rl actions have consequences that you have to live with for the rest of your life. in eve this is untrue, as you can make an alt and biomass it after your sufficiently happy with the havoc you've caused. not to mention law systems are based on the philosophy that crime is bad. but in eve crime isnt bad, its accepted. pirates and thieves and gankers are just as much members of the community and paying for the game as highsec carebears are. the only difference is they dont play the game the same. how would law work in eve seeing that being a criminal is an acceptable career? im sorry but you and all of the supporters of this are taking the approach of well they dont play the game the way i like it so punish them.that unfortunately for you is not an acceptable argument for ccp to change the game. they want people to play the way they wanna play. if that means jack is a miner, john is a ninja looter, steve is a missioner, and roger is a suicide ganker, then so be it. thats what they are doing with their 15 dollars a month, and no other player in the game has the right to take that away from them. if roger chooses to gank he accepts that he will be a 'criminal' that he will lose his ship and that he will be disliked by pvers. *** edit** in before the well their play style affects my play style.yes yes it does but highsec pvers affect my play style does that mean i can get them nerf'd. miners in highsec affect my bottom end does that mean i can nerf em?pirates in highsec cause me to use out of alliance frieghter alts, does that mean i can delete wardecs? no no no no no. being a highsec jewbear means you are a target of ganking it comes hand in hand. if you dont wanna be ganked don't fly or haul stuff worth ganking. but when you fit a ship with 5 to 10 times its value in officer and dead space mods, or carry 5 to 10 times the value of a hauler which has less hp than well tanked bs, you really deserve to be ganked. its not hard to get a frieghter alt, its not easy to gank a frieghter, its also not easy to gank when people use webber alts and warp to 0. if you dont wanna be ganked get an alt in your corp with webs, get a frieghter. when you click warp lock the frieghter and web it."
"all this proves the whole point. if criminal activities like suicide ganking are legitimate, why isn't vigilantism? extend killrights of suicide ganker onto everyone, and let whomever wants a piece, get it. that should be just as valid a style of play as suicide ganking itself."
"vigilantism is also a crime. so if you want to be a vigilante in eve you've gotta be a criminal. that means you have just as much right to gank as they do. getting kill rights to them makes you a lawman, which isnt cool, cause then your more powerful then a vigilante cause you have the law on your side. so if you wanna be a vigilante do it but do it with the knowledge that its unacceptable anywhere in the world."
"now you claim that it should be like irl? don't just flip flop whenever it's convenient. police irl wouldn't let a criminal off with a insurance compensated pat on the back. as far as i can see, more explosions in eve is a good thing. there need to be concord protection for carebears, otherwise they won't be able to serve necessary function in the economy, be it mining, manufacturing, seeding market, or isk faucet. there is no reason this should extend to inherent pvp people, aka, suicide gankers.if you meant that gankers should also get killrights on the \"lawmen,\" that's fine. but don't cling onto concord protection against those lawmen like it's a birth right. people who wish to fight and breach the protection of the law in turn forfeit its protection themselves."
"mission in lowsec if you don't want to get suicided. problem solved."
"and what do you propose as a counter for this mechanic?or were you hoping no one would notice that you just rendered multiple entire classes of ships basically unstoppable?because you're right, until you, you know, balance it, you won't get much (serious) support."
"they are already unstoppable unless you lag. able to activate cloak before coming out of jump cloak would simply put people with poor connection, or in a grid with server lag, on par with people with good connection in non-lagging system. all it does is mitigate side effects of lag."
"must not be..if a rework of local would include a rework of d-scan that would be able to scan for cloaked ships *don't jump on me yet, i didn't say anything about how accurate or whatcan be found or which distances and what kind of means the d-scanner has to field to get this*anyway..cloaked should be cloaked.work a way out to use the d-scanner to get intel about your surrounding.. cloaked ships inclusive."
"actually, the main reason for it is so you can see where someone decloaks, in an attempt to decloak them. i'm all for the idea if their position flashes up (similar to the current mechanic). that would reduce \"lag kills\" while not breaking gameplay"
"because while chilling in null in my pimped out marauder, i always warp to every cyno i see to check out what's happening. i just like to greet every cap pilot that enters the system personally, no matter their standings. and i wold be really ****ed if one of them would dare attack me and kill my pimpboat. cunning bastard. let he ships do what hey are suppose to. i see no reason some bastard hsould be decloacking my cloackies. would also make all those big alliances watch their back."
"damn right supported"
"some major rebalancing thoughts cannot hurt there for sure. but the main issue might actually be more the unattractiveness of bs in comparison to bcs instead (for pvp)."
"i'm gonna have to agree with dlardrageth on this one. i don't think it's an issue of bc's being too attractive, it's more that bs's are too unatractive. bc's too easily fill the relatively narrow gap between cruiser and bs. the only way i can see to fix that would be to widen the gap and make bs's better."
"this and it would hurt all armor tanked bc but sheild nano gank cane and drake will not be affected as much. also bs need a small agility buff to avoid hot drops. t1 cruisers if t1 fitted are dirt cheap and in numbers can cause alot of damage.ps:people are willing to pay 60+mill for a frigate i dont think making bc more pricy would affect it much. bc are fine they die to bs but problem is bs cant dodge bad engagements like the bc can. were a bs would die the bc can just fly away laughing at the ships pouring through that cyno waisting the jump fule.edit:make it harder to hotdrop or make it easier for bs to avoid the hotdrop and they will see more use."
"bc performance/cost ratio is too high. that's a factand i'm willing to bet it might be the best ratio for all ships in eve, t2, t3, everything. nothing gives as much bang for the buck."
"frankly, i'd like to see rigs for every size of ship; meaning a separate rig size for bcs and even destroyers (although destroyers do need a buff, but that's a whole other thing).i guess i wouldn't be opposed to this. bcs really do need some kind of adjustment."
"as eph said and i agree with. the risk vs reward of bc's is to high, it makes both cruisers and battleships undesireable. and also needs to be fixed"
"forcing bc:s to use large rigs would help quite a bit. although shield rigs are so cheap that drakes would remain foty after that too.t1 cruisers need overhaul badly, tier removal would be start. then add good useful bonuses to each of them, if they are limited to one trick like bellicose or celestis that trick should be very good. cruisers like omen simply lack fittings to actually use guns with modest buffer tank. personally i think durability progression in eve is just too steep every step of the way. especially when you cross from subcaps to caps and then again to supercaps. hp increase patch didn`t add anything positive to this game imo."
"by the looks of the sizes, masses, and module setups, battlecruisers seem to be weapon platform version of cruisers. they don't have the capacitor, shields, armor, drone bays, cargo capacity, or low and mid slots of a battleship. instead, they have low mass and inertia so they're mobile, and their smaller signature radius protects them from battleship weapons somewhat.everyone agree with me so far?okay then it seems unbalanced to me that they can tank almost much as a battleship. they're a lot smaller and faster, and their damage output isn't terribly lower than that of a battleship either. i know some battlecruisers really can't tank like a battleship; it's those that can that seem overpowered.perhaps to fix it, they could have their number of mid and low slots re-evaluated and brought closer in-line with regular cruisers.--and since battleships are already gun boats, there could be made a streamlined version of battleships that would be counted as large. they would have 7-8 high slots like a battleship, but a bit less shields, armor, low/mid slots, capacitor, powergrid, and drone bays. and the payoff for this is that they'd be fairly fast, almost as fast as a battlecruiser. their signature radius would be almost as big as a battleship, you'd need large rigs for them, and their base mineral costs would be almost as high as a battleship. in essence, it would be various different racial hulls of the drake, only bigger and heftier like that thing should be. and the racial bonuses should focus on weapon tracking more than damage, to stay in line with their sleeker nature.thoughts?"
"dude, if you do this, i will never fly a myrm again. it will cost me as much to fly a myrm as a domi/mega, that is over 60 mill. that's just stupid. increase the price or make bs better, but this is not the solution. and make armor rigs cheaper."
"lets delete the bc class while we are at it"
"not supported. rig prices are not balanced across their types, this would mean some bc's would be punished more then others.these would be the harbi and the myrm, hardly the worst in the bunch."
"i recognize there's some price imbalance between the shield and armor rigs. that has to be addressed as a separate issue.2 wrongs don't make a right"
"as the topic says give all mission rats sleeper ai.couple of affects that this will have1) no more super tanking a single ship and praying that it holds out against the onslaught in higher mission levels while another ship purely gank fit does all the dps (mainly l4 and l5)2) makes it slightly (very little) safer to run l4s & l5s in low sec, as gankers will then have the rats to potentially deal with as well3) adds some dynamic content to the overall game that is getting to be fairly routine.i'm open to other suggestions."
"hmm as it is one of the main income sources for high sec (lvl 4 missions), there would have to be a significant raise in the income to grant an appropriate compensation for the raise in the difficulty.i'd say if each lvl 4 in high sec pays you 50 million in bounty and mission payment, it would be justified. a lvl 3 would have to pay then like a lvl 4 now.everything else would be an attempt of a low sec to get more victims to low sec by nerfing high sec. - tbh every attempt to boost low sec by nerfing high sec would be a action, as the victims you already have are probably fighting back and give you a bloody nose."
"out of curiosity did you even read my post or are you just that much all about the \"nerf this nerf that\" mentality.sleeper ai affects nothing more than the fact that the mission rats will change targets and not focus on single targets as they do currently. provides some extra amusement for wormhole residents currently and its a harmless enough change to bring into the game to provide dynamic content. (i did not mention changing their damage types, resists, or anything to be perfectly clear, just a change to their basic ai)i listed both pros and cons, please read my posts prior to responding, you not only make yourself look like a fool, but influence those around you to mis-interpret the information provided as well."
"ccp already stated their intention to do this during the last fan fest. but it's going to be phased in slowly so as to not break any missions.in fact if you read the incursion feature page you will see this:18th of january for that. get ready :)"
"they already plan to do this.at the same time though, they'll have to tone some missions down, as stupid ai is the only thing keeping some missions soloable at-level - worlds collide and pirate assault (i think? the guristas one) are good examples in the level 4 range, and new frontiers 1, 4, and 5 are all examples of level 3s. it'll also have an impact on how people mission, as droneboats will become next to useless, severely hindering the domi and rattlesnake as viable mission-mobiles.if implemented well, it could add some life to the dullness of missions and actually require the pilot to pay attention. if done poorly, it will simply narrow the band of good mission ships and not change a thing about how people run them.edit: guristas may need a special look since their jamming ability really can't be countered - their ability to jam an entire fleet for an extended period of time when they appear in numbers would make them the npc faction to beware."
"ya they better be careful with that balance or people would have to work together in this here mmo."
"i did read your mail, or why would you think did i choose to write what i did write?just you think the ai is to lame for you, you want the game mechanics to suit your personal needs. people who have trained for drones will have to play then on a basis on recover drones and put them back out. you have that already in worlds collide. the result is just that you need longer for your mission and therefore earn less - what is in my eyes a nerf of the current playstyle. if you want sleeper ai go in a wh and have fun there. just because you listed for your eyes predefined pros and cons, doenst make the topic a good idea. its outcome will be a nerf on the income of high sec missioneers and therefore doesnt have my support. if by some means the negative income effects will be balanced out and drone boats wont be made useless, then i dont have a problem with it. unless you provide solutions for those problems its natural that your idea can be missread and you dont have to try in an feeble attempt to pass the buck to me by claiming that i am a fool.there is nothing wrong with people who want to do their missions alone. thats the big advantage over wow isnt it? youre not forced to do stuff in groups. you can if you like, but its not mandatory. i think incursions will be a positive factor for those who dont want to do stuff alone."
"supported or not ronan this is happening and it's happening in the next 3 weeks."
"use ecm. sleeper ai hates ecm, will target you as a priority over your drones."
"tbh, its great the rats will get more intelligent. maybe ccp will even turn down the rat's weapons to what the game really is as a guristas bs can still fire torps from 100km away. wait that won't happen. but lets be honest, this isn't going to stop mission runners. new tactics and fits will come out of it and lvl 4s will be as easy again as they ever were. this won't stop the dual boxer or the person who over tanks the crap out of their ship. all this will be is a small annoyance."
"i always overomnitank my ship. now, if rats would shoot everyone warping in, i would come back to running some low-sec missions. and ninja salvagers would be gone. npc e-war doe need adjustment. they still jamm a ship with sensor stregth of two hundred and they still webb people down to 0.1 m/s. and they must not shoot drones. (even though that can be managed) and then i support."
"if npc rats become so much smarter, i'm okay with that; but... i want an honest fight then. which is to say, my eccm should work on them, and i should be able to neut them as well."
"this would kill the last reason to use gallente ships.i stopped doing that a long time ago, but i still wish to state that."
"as it is, it is easy to take advantage of another player through the act of suicide ganking. you buy a ship, insure it to full, and fit it with cheap modules; then go kill someone before concord has a chance to destroy your ship. you lose some security status and however much it cost to insure your ship to full. but your victim loses whatever was on or in their ship, and those items can't be insured. what's even more unfair is that you can have your buddy come take the items from their wreck. it just makes it too easy to make a living as a dirty thief.i believe that insurance is to blame. perhaps it should be made possible to insure individual market goods, such as ship modules. maybe a player can get an insurance plan which automatically deducts extra money for everything they buy, and pays them back for anything they lose.potential drawbacks to this plan include, but may not be limited to: the average player doesn't lose the majority of what they buy. suicide gankers may take to fitting a ship with expensive modules to maximize their damage, knowing they'll get a refund when their ship is destroyed. and many law-abiding players may refuse to insure their goods, believing that not enough of them will be lost to make it worthwhile.another option would be to make the price of insurance based partly on the player's recent insurance record. the monetary values of a player's most recent ship losses, ship kills, and npc bounties could be tallied up to make a composite \"risk\" score for the player. with a high loss to kill ratio, that player should have to pay more for insurance. alternatively, a player with an outstanding record could pay very little for maximum insurance.potential drawbacks of this plan include, but may not be limited to: new players and/or players who are frequently victimized may get shafted for losing ships too often.i personally am in greater support of the second plan, and am very open to more possibilities. if anyone has any to mention, i might make an edit and put it in at the top here.but the most important thing is to change insurance somehow. it favors suicide gankers too much. i love how eve allows players to do whatever they want, but the current system is unbalanced. suicide gankers should have to work for their money just like everyone else.-edit-i think both of my ideas could work well together. perhaps a character with a good record could have an insurance rate as low as or close to 10%. that player may wish to turn on auto-insure when making a lot of small purchases that may be put at risk (like setting up a pos, making a large shopping trip, or taking anything outside of highsec), and thus insure all items quickly and easily at 10% extra cost for full coverage. there's no way it can be abused, because the only way for a player to collect this insurance is to lose the items, which degrades their record and ups their insurance rates. and you can't transfer items between characters without losing any insurance already on them."
"gl with that. less insurance payout means mid-term likely more gtc sales for ccp. wanna bet with that in mind they'll up insurance payouts again?"
"how about we just remove insurance system completely for anything bigger than a t1 cruiser?that would be a step in the right direction.that way supercap pilots wouldn't feel disadvantaged."
"don't fly it if you can't afford to lose it. carebears lose their pimpboats to suicide ganks in concordland for no insurance payout, yet supercap pilots should expect to be reimbursed for losing their boat in a nullsec pvp fight?"
"if you have the isk to get the ship initially, you dont really need insurance. then there is the whole arguement well if they can insure them for the full price there is no risk to using them, and by elminating the risk you trigger a proliferation of them out there, and atm all cap battles are decided by who brings more moms to the field.then there is the issue with the flood of incoming isk to the player, hell if i had 65 billion after losing a titan i would get ****ed, go to jita and purposely **** over the entire market there."
"gl with that. less insurance payout means mid-term likely more gtc sales for ccp. wanna bet with that in mind they'll up insurance payouts again? true but which is more likely to gtc 9 bil or 4-5 bil? seeing as no reasonable amount of insurance on a titan will leave a reasonable gtc amount, 10 bil insurance would result in 20 bil in gtc, which is still a large bill gtc wise.how about we just remove insurance system completely for anything bigger than a t1 cruiser?that would be a step in the right direction.that way supercap pilots wouldn't feel disadvantaged.that would work essentially it would level the playing field and all pvp would be more risky. unfortunately it would lead to an even larger proliferation in bc's as they are the best ship for reasonable cost.don't fly it if you can't afford to lose it. carebears lose their pimpboats to suicide ganks in concordland for no insurance payout, yet supercap pilots should expect to be reimbursed for losing their boat in a nullsec pvp fight?hey tard guard, its one thing to lose a ship that never see's combat and where 90% of the value is in the modules. and a completely different thing when the majority of the ship is the hull itself, go back to your lvl 4's with your officer cnr chief we dont need your kind around here.but in response, modules arent insurable they are your choice of how to fit. losing a raven, is relatively painless, losing an officer fit raven is painful. losing a cnr hurts more but still isnt terrible as you get raven insurance, losing an officer fit cnr sucks.so why should supers be any different? why should their base insurance be less than 10# of the ships build/mineral cost?i definitely dont think you should beable to insure ships for their value plus module value that would just be stupid.if you have the isk to get the ship initially, you dont really need insurance. then there is the whole arguement well if they can insure them for the full price there is no risk to using them, and by elminating the risk you trigger a proliferation of them out there, and atm all cap battles are decided by who brings more moms to the field.then there is the issue with the flood of incoming isk to the player, hell if i had 65 billion after losing a titan i would get ****ed, go to jita and purposely **** over the entire market there.ok first off why would you get 65 bil for losing a titan? thats double mineral cost? thats ******ed and theres no way its even an appropriate example.second what incoming isk? the loss would still be negative you get 10 bil from a titan death you've still lost 20bil+ fits. theres no incoming isk, just less lost.they will proliferate with or without risk as they are \"endgame\" ships and an accomplishment for anyone. not to mention your argument fails to the fact that if theres less risk theres a higher chance of fights and losses involving supers cause the damage isnt damming to an alliance and its pilots. the higher the risk the less they will be risked, the less the risk the more they will be used in riskier situations. the amount of pilots that can afford to fly and lose their super cap is small, if a fleet of 21 super carriers is lost at the moment the total isk returned is the equivalent of 2 super carrier. increasing the insurance to 1 third doesnt change much over all it just changes the total isk not lost. same example with 20 percent insurance would return 4 super carriers. what is the honest difference to the alliance? or eve as a whole? not much but the difference to the player is a fair chunk they still have lost all their modules and the ship and the drones."
"double post"
"it's an interesting idea, and it seems logical enough, but what i'm worried about is inflation. pumping tens of billions of isk into the economy every time a titan is destroyed is not a fun thing.i am personally of the opinion that capitals shouldn't be insurable at all. it's probably meant to hurt real bad when you lose one, and frankly i'm not that comfortable with going against that idea. this would ultimately result in more capitals and isk inflation. it'd be a decent benefit for a small group of people and serve to hurt a lot of others indirectly.i can't really support that with a clean conscience."
"i have a reasonable fix for that too - make bc use large rigs. that needs to be done to bring bc more in line with cruisers and battleships. kill 2 birds with 1 stone."
"its not pumping any money into the economy though its just reducing the loss. so lets total it right now the last 3 weeks 3-4 sc's have died if the insurance was increased to say 20% that would mean instead of 950 million per ship they would have recieved 1.9bil, barely an increase. when you think there are 30+ thousand toons logged in daily where 3 or 4 sc's died.if capitals (not super caps) were uninsurable then you would see a drastic reduction of use, because one of their biggest beneficial attributes is they are insurable. this allows them to be loseable. my goal would be to make supers also a little more useable. losing 28 bil is no different than losing 25 or 20 bil. except that you have a little more isk to help you get back to where you were.also yes eph i've seen and supported your idea but the problem with removing insurance completely is it would make bs even less attractive to fly. im not sure your fix for bcs would be as affective if insurance was changed"
"you should make up your mind there.either there is a difference of 4bn and it's a struggle or there is not.with insurance an isk influx to the eve economy you're also likely to not get supporters for this with the recent movement of trying to close/dam those sources (insurance nerf)."
"i never changed my mind. what i was stating was that theres no difference in the struggle between the two values. it will still take a significant time to replace the asset.honestly the isk that would influx would be a drop in the bucket compared to the isk dropped into the market daily in jita. not to mention if more supers are built thats more isk spent if you spend 30 bill building a titan, someone buys it from you for 65 bil then loses it and gets 3 bil back or 6 bil back. what would the difference be? the isk lost to the market is the mineral cost - insurance cost + fit cost. the isk lost will always outweigh the isk gain.someone builds a sc for 11 bil 9.5 mineral cost spends 5 bil on the fit. total cost is 9.5 bil+ 5 bil to lose. if insurance pays out 3 bil then the market loses 11.5 bil, vs what it is right now at 950 mil which would leave 13.1 bil lost."
"the 'market' has a sc worth 11bn (mins, bpc, etc) and modules 5bn.the sc buyer puts 16bn on the table and they trade.'market' has now 16bn, sc owner has a ship worth 16bn.ship explodes.'market' has still 16bn. owner has got a lossmail and insurance.do you now see, that insurance payout works as isk influx to the market?"
"wrong. they only poke so much on cruiser roles because fittings make up 90% of the fielding cost for both.losing an unfitted bc isnt much more expensive than losing an unfit cruiser, thats the issue here. fitting up a bc requires to fill 3-4 extra slots with cheap t2 gear, and assuming you hold the field a lot of those fittings is even recoverable.the difference in fittings is 4-5mill isk tops, and due to insurance losing a cruiser is about 75%-80% of the impact that losing a bc is.now imagine this relation without insurance, while the fitting costs are about even at around 18-24mill, the top tier cruiser hull adds 7mill to that, while the bc hull adds 26mill.insurance needs to go, especially for capitals.fun fact: i trained up battlecruisers first instead of cruisers years ago specifically because losing a rupture hull did mean more lost isk than losing a cyclone hull did."
"it's pretty simple. the money you paid to build your super cap (or any ship for that matter) remains inside the economy, going round and round and doing it's thing. the money paid out in insurance comes from outside that economy (save for the small fraction that is actually insurance premiums) and is thus new isk.consider this example - simple, but essentially the same thing, except for the amounts.let's say there is, for the sake of argument 1 billion isk total in the eve economy today including all market orders, player wallets, contracts, and assets. (yes i know that's small, it's too keep the maths easy.)i can buy an omen for 3,500,000 isk. that isk goes to the player that build the ship, and remains inside the eve economy, so in terms of isk amount in the greater economy, it's net 0. the economy still has 1 billion isk in total value.i can insure said omen to platinum levels for 850,000 isk (approximately). that isk vanishes into the ether, so the eve economy as a whole has lost 850,000 isk and now stands at 1 billion - 850 thousand isk.assuming said omen then is destroyed within the three month period of the insurance contract, i would get back from insurance 2,850,000. this isk comes from a game mechanic, so it is not previously part of the game economy. this means the economy gains nearly 3 million isk from, essentially, nowhere. so for this one ship, we have a net gain in isk in the economy of two million isk. so now the economy is at 1,002,000,000 isk.the only way this doesn't happen is if i insure the ship three times before i lose it - at that point, the total amount of money in the economy actually has decreased, despite the insurance payment back to me. in that case we would have 1 billion - (3x 850,000) + 2 million = 999,450,000 isk.i'm not here to argue the merits of your proposal (for the simple reason that i have never flown an super, i have no desire to fly an super, and i have no concept of the numbers involved). i'm just here to show you that yes, up to a certain point, an insurance payout results in a net increase in available isk value in the game economy as a whole.your wallet may look like ass, but the economy as a whole just made money from thin air."
"i too support the complete removal of insurance."
"no to supercaps online and no to more isk faucets."
"see the problem tho is we look at it individually i'd be curious to see numbers from ccp on how much is spent on insurance and how much is paid out over a month or a quarter period. and see if the net effect is positive or negative.yes i do understand that the loss of a ship + insurance over all can create isk in an economy but there is still a loss of assets in that value. guess thats not worth something to a lot of people who just see isk faucets everywhere. problem is, is they are everywhere, ratting, salvaging, mining, missioning. isk proliferation becomes worse when assets dont die because those assets worth isk that were created from nothing (mined minerals to produce the ship) are worth something til they are destroyed. battle cruisers are truly broken because with insurance they cost nearly nothing to fly and they are easy to skill to. while fielding near bs dps and tank for a fraction the cost.ok so essentially we have to remember this to get to that super carrier build someone needed to mine that 9.5 bil worth of minerals (isk from nothing other than time) once that mining ceased the net value of the economy was +9.5 bil. that +9.5 bil + 2 bil for the bpc (isk out of nothing) turns into a super carrier the builder will sell for 15 bil. so at the moment the market is +11.5 bil. he sells it and the market over all doesnt change he fits his ship with 5 bil in dead space mods (isk out of nowhere) after purchasing those mods the market is now +16.5 bil as they were just ratted off a sanctum spawn. the ship is lost 50% module drop so the market is +2.5 bil + salvage value of the ship, + the insurance value of the ship which will never exceed the actual value. so lets say 20% insurance and the salvage is worth 500mil. 3 bil in salvage and mods + 1.9 bil so total of +4.9 bil is now in the market instead of +16.5. so net value of the economy has decreased but the value is still positive because all of the aspects of eve created isk making the ship and the mods. your examply is fine but it fails to account for the value of the omen itself as a part of the market. isk faucets rattingmissioning (including datacore creation)salvagingmining*insurancebpo researchingmoon miningisk drainspos fuelssoveriegnty billsammorepairsjump fuelsbpo purchasesmarket/contracting/research/manufacturing fees and paymentsinsurance**the reason insurance is in both is if you don't lose the ship your isk is draining if you do its not.problem is not the isk faucets its that the isk drains don't affect highsec people who run missions very much. if your running lvl 4's in your own corp you have 0 taxes, if you also have 99.9 refining your not losing anything on module refining. if you don't insure your ship you arent losing isk, you are spending money on ammo but its nothing compared to what your making. you dont pay sov bills, you probably don't have a highsec tower, you probably dont use jump fuel (highsec). you arent a manufacturer so you arent buying bpos to make copies and sell you buy your ammo bpo and produce it with module drop refines. you are selling your salvage that you don't use to make your own rigs, so you pay a lil in market fees but your skills negate most of it. so basically your grinding out +40mil an hour with almost no noticable isk drain. thats off topic though all im saying is that an increase to the insurance wouldnt hurt anyone. except the people that hate super cap pilots"
"these two statements contradict each other. only one can be true, and it automatically means the other one is false.personally, i think insurance is a problem with capitals (not only supers!) as well as on the subcap level."
"your not even close to correct the big difference is supers cant be insured. battle cruisers can. if you can insure a ship and basically cover the cost of it completely its broken.what im saying doesnt allow you to buy a brand new super, but does give you more then a joke of a token insurance payout.each statement is true because of their ability to dock which leads to a variable insurance scheme for battle cruisers and 1 set level of insurance for super's. if you had no insurance other than base payout for bc's then they wouldnt be \"broken\" but that statement is untrue cause there are tiers of insurance for bc's the top of which allowing nearly the entire cost of the ship to be covered. think before you type please."
"fixedclearly the problem is that ultimately the faucets provide more isk than the drains remove despite the number of drains vs the number of faucets."
"yes and no because your taking the term isk faucet literally as isk created from nothing. but assets created from nothing are also isk faucets because assets have value. if i mine 10 billion, i just created 10 bil from nothing because there isnt a finite amount of minerals in the game. if i use it to build stuff that number will increase, through added value. it might never actually turn into isk but it does add isk to the market.if in rl i chop down trees, and mix rock to make a fountation and build a house. i have not earned any cash but that house is worth cash, and being as its worth cash my net worth has increased. everything is the same way. if your given a battleship, and you didnt spend a penny on it. well your net worth increased by the cost of the bs, as if you'd ratted and bought it yourself. since the eve economy is an open system with infinite resources and infinte isk it will infinitely inflate. the opposite would be a closed system where there was a finite amount of isk and minerals in the system at all times. as ships were destroyed their mineral value would be rediscovered. this also runs into the problem of horders and people who quit. as their assets still take of mineral worth but will not return to the pool. open system everyone gets rich, some faster than others. closed system horders get rich, everyone else gets poorer"
"i think it's completely unfair to other players for anyone to be able to insure a ship for the purpose of losing it (or putting it into particularly dangerous circumstances on purpose) and only lose 30% isk when it inevitably gets blasted to bits. instead, insurance rates should be higher for players who abuse that system on a regular basis (say, up to a max of 66%), or lower for players who keep a good reputation of not losing ships (down as low as 10% maybe). this way, regular players could afford to insure the ships they assume they won't be losing, while the thugs who suicide their ships all the time would have high bills to pay for it.and before anyone tells me that players with a good record will buy a titan and use it to screw with everyone, think about this:it takes several months of sp to get a character to the point of being able to fly a titan, not to mention lots of isk spent on skillbooks. the moment that pilot gets their titan destroyed, their record is shot. sure, they might get a 90% return on the first titan, but it'll be a long time before they can go and do something like that again, regardless of whether they train up a good record again or if they sack the character and make a new one. knowing that, most titan pilots who have a good record probably won't want to put their ship in excessive danger."
"i think you do not understand the problem. it has nothing to do with variable or not variable insurance schemes. the problem is that there is a percentage of the isk coming back at all.the commodity has been consumed, the trade is made. if that asset still exists or not is irrelevant, but the moment it does generate isk simply by dying we have a problem. even if that is only the default payout.again, your supercapital is insured by default, it is not variable insurance as other ship classes, but it is insured nonetheless. the problem is already with the basic payout.the premium payouts make it more pronounced, but that doesnt mean the basic payout is not broken already.seriously, in one sentence you complain about premium rates on battlecruisers being broken since it gives too much of a return, on the other hand you want better coverage for supers. that is contradiction at its finest."
"you sir fail to grasp even the tiniest part of the issue.it does not contradict because platinum insurance and basic insurance are completely different. btw get off your alt and talk with your main, we are all adults here. so say you get platinum for a bc and it pays out 80% after all numbers are considered. if you were to spend the value of a super carrier in bc's you'd still get 80% back. that is the broken part. its pretty obvious you stand to gain something by removing insurance all together so one must assume your a manufacturer or someone that makes isk off others losing ships. if all ships in eve paid out 10% of their mineral value max, i wouldnt be here making an argument. but i am because there is no reason that supers get max 10% insurance where all other t1 ships get much hirer percent returns.the easiest solution is to up super carrier payouts, the other option being reduce all other ship payouts to 10%. that would mean 5-6.5mil for a scorpion loss max. as i said earlier i would be fine with that. in your eyes all insurance is the same. in mine they are all different thats what your missing to comprehend."
"no it doesn't. the market only has the amount of isk the market has. you can have one item or one trillion items on the market and the amount of isk is consistant. you are talking about resource faucets, which use the same principles, but are not exactly the same.would eve be a better game without faucets? i'd say so, there would be far more balancers to capitals for one and loss would really really hurt.the main issue wouldn't be the scarcity of minerals or isk, but the fact that it would effectively freeze the game as far as who is rich and who isn't."
"why should losing a capital hurt more than losing a bs proportionately and why should losing a super hurt more than losing a capital proportionately. they will still be larger sums because the ship cost more, but why should the proportions be different? isk minerals ice its all currency, it all has value. just cause diamonds are dollars doesnt mean they arent valuable, or worth money, or if you could great them infinitly not a way to get rich. resources are the exact same way, do you think oil companies get rich cause they drill oil or cause they make money other ways? miners make isk by mining, if minerals werent worth anything then noone would mine. isk is just one currency in eve, if i want a megathron i dont have to buy it i can put up a barter deal for it, build it, steal it. are you kidding me right now the eve isk market has no isk roof. ccp isnt taking out of the game or asking players to invest into ccp run programs or banks. if everyone in eve ratted continuously there would be infinite isk.if you get rid of isk faucets you make a system completely reliant on mining. with no way to generate isk there would be a reducing supply of isk because there would be drains and no faucets. your base currency would switch from isk to minerals. and the market would continue. now thats all good and dandy for the miners but if f*cks everyone else. and personally i f*cking hate miners, well most of em.what if we got rid of mining and made minerals market seeded hmmm? pvpers rely on isk faucets for income, for the most part. pver's rely on resource faucets and isk faucets. get off your high horse. if pvpers relied completely on miners for ships and everything (isk faucets removed) there would be a change in pvp eve wide because instead of being able to just plex/rat/mission for a few days to rebuff the wallet. they would need to mine, now i do not know many pvpers who enjoy mining. why would anyone deal in isk if trit was more valuable? my basic argument is this why should there be variable insurance? why should ships pay out different percentages. in my opinion its either an equal percentage or nothing at all. but im also of the opinion that the majority of isk making in eve should exist in 0.0 and highsec should have no lvl 4 missions lowsec should be lvl 3's and 4's and 0.0 should be level 5's. highsec should have no mid level minerals for mining just the low ends. lowsec should have all the mid range rocks and 0.0 should have all the high range rocks. why? empires would mine out their own space. missions that are more dangerous make more and the unexplored frontier always has the most potential"
"i don't think you understand how isk would be incredibly valuable if the faucets were turned off. everything else would drop through the floor price wise so people would actually buy stuff.the npc market would determine the bottom out point of the crash.the price of plex would go from three hundred seventy million isk to three hundred seventy thousand isk given enough time."
"supercaps are already too strong.insurance is already too strong.combining the two unbalances the game more."
"well it still seems unbalanced. even if the frigate is whizzing at microwarp velocity at an angle somewhat toward the battleship, the battleship can still hit the frigate long before the frigate gets close enough to get enough transversal velocity to become safe. since one or two hits is all it takes for the battleship to blast the frigate out of existence, it would seem to make sense for the frigate to stand a fighting chance of not being hit at any range.alternatively, if a frigate could shoot a battleship from a great distance, it wouldn't change the fact that the battleship could tank the frigate's pathetic damage forever without even hardly noticing it.how is the current system balanced?"
"call it a mid life overhaul.i feel battleships should be able to reach an impressive top speed. im thinking 500m/s before prop mods. agility and acceleration rate must stay the low and slow. this is to give them a fighting chance against smaller ship without denaturing them.they need more fitting margins. all battleships must be able to comfortably fit a full rack of any turret calibers. a full rack of tachyons on apocalypse should not require fitting mods at all. point blank. the super guns are self-balanced as is. the penalties of fitting these powerful turrets are the turret themselves (tracking, rof, activation costs etc). forcing me to gimp my tank with rcus does not make them any less effective anyway so whats the point? give all battleships room to play with."
"confirmed, battleships need a look ateither increase their stats and make them better or lower their cost some so you can lose more per week."
"make dual heavy large turrets more of a middle ground between medium guns and large guns. buffed sig res and tracking, nerfed damage by a bit. then they can more effectively engage targets smaller than they are. also add a battleship equivalent of the assault launcher, that fires heavies. this would fill the gap between bc and what bs are now.also make bs bonuses apply to all weapons of the type. if someone wants to fit mediums to the bs for a bonus they should be able to. reevaluate position of bs for small gangs and solo work after testing this for several months."
"yeah the only thing a battleship is good against is well another battleship. a battleship cost 4-5 times that of a bc and yet even a very well fit bs will get soloed by a bc. battleships should at least be harder to kill. this mismatch problem between classes just about applies to all classes. not just battleships."
"the only bs that loses to a bc is a hybrid one that gets kited, and thats cause hybrids aren't great not cause bs are pants. the main problem with bs is they aren't agile enough to get out when the inevitable hot drop occurs in this cap prevalent time."
"so you agree then that battlecruisers and destroyers were a bad idea."
"if you manage to get kited by a bc in a hybrid bs you completely deserve it because you didnt bring null."
"true but that was the only scenario i could think of that a bs would lose to a bc.and i dont think that bc or destroyers were a bad idea i think that supercarriers in there current form are the problem"
"an ehp apocalypse will lose to a solo drake."
"the drake loses in the range, ehp and dps departments, has a sig large enough that the apoc can track it fairly well up close or at range so im not sure how the drake wins."
"well as anyone knows the current mining drones are completely useless for exhumers. for one they mine in a minute what your exhumer does in less than a second. well here is my idea.ore gave us the glory of the strip miner years ago, but now they have come out with a miniaturized version of it fitted to a procurerish looking drone that can mine 150m3 per minute. but here is where the catch is, even the almighty hulk can't use more than one at a time. the new drone would also require drones at level 5 and mining drones to level 5. the drone also do to its larger cargo capacity only moves at half the speed of normal standard issue mining drones. for the skiff it would take up the whole drone, but for the larger exhumers it would leave some room to have combat drones to defend your ship against rats."
"you want ore prices to go even deeper, don't you?any changes to mining should be about making it more bot-proof and less mundane. amount being mined doesn't fall into these categories.."
"i'd support it if the price for one of these drones is just high enough to attract macro-miners but too expensive for players. then we can kill their drones and not lose as much sec status. or something.on second thought, it's just not that great an idea.the main problem is that it gives miners more to think about in the way of increasing their mining output. the current system is simple: combat drones to protect your weapon-free barge.i am, however, in favor of making 10m3 and 25m3 sized mining drones. sure, a hulk could fit more mining yield within its drone ranks, but it would still be pretty insignificant compared to their strip miner output. but you could put em in battleships or cruisers. maybe some pilots would make defensive mining ships with weapon turrets fitted, and use drones to mine, instead of the other way around. that would also bring amarr and gallente cruisers back in the mining game with their currently crappy mining vessels, the arbitrator and the vexor."
"let me make a few pointers. 1. despite mining as much as ten standard drones the ministrip drone moves at half the speed. thereby decreasing its yield. 2. what this drone mines won't even dent the market since it take would 1m 32s to complete an actual cycle if you are 8000m from where the drone starts. lets say it starts mining at 2000m for a reference. now if you fly a hulk without cargo rigs and carpo mlus, i am using my hulk as a reference. it takes 7 1/2 minutes to mine 8000m3 of ore. the ministrip should save me 1 1/2 minutes. which isn't exactly uber effective, but it also doesn't suck monkey ass like the standard drones. for the hulks with cargo rigs it will save them more time. the ministrip might make the the average hulk pilot 100k per hour. once again its not an uber change."
"let armor (slowly) fix itself over time by gathering space dust with the ships space magnets. space magnets operate only if there is nothing locked on you at the time (recycle the cloak code? the part that deny cloak activation when something has a lock on the ship)ty ty"
"i've wanted that for a long time. though at a straight x amount per second rate, not the curve that shields/cap has. shouldn't be useful for tanking additional damage, and no mods that can alter it, just something to ever so slowly regenerate armor over a period of many minutes."
"or allow remote repair drones to rep the host shipthis would make the mechanic almost like shield tanking, and would be to worthless to actually use (who would spend 45 minutes undocked repping armor when they could fit a lar i and rep it in about 2 min.)"
"i think the non-rechargable aspect of armor is meant to be one of its major tradeoffs. armor reps are lighter on the fittings than shield boosters, and as a general rule mid slots are more valuable than lows so long as you have the pg/cpu to use them (although people might disagree with me on that)."
"i'm just going to quote you to say you dont know jack about local armor reping and pg hungery armor reps do you?"
"on closer inspection, yeah, ouch, some of the heavier armor reps have some nasty pg requirements; battleships aren't my forte, so it slipped past me. still, the armor reps are much less painful when it comes to cpu and cap. all in all, i'm still going with \"working as intended\"."
"not supported"
"sorry, no. speaking as a armor repping battleship pilot myself, you'd be throwing off part of what balances shield reps without a compensating balancing factor."
"i've always thought dcus should rep hull, armor, and shields a small bit each cycle. but that was before they were buffed."
"must: logistics drone able to repair host ship.would be nice: regenerative plating able to actually regenerate (at speed penalty).omg op: dump nanite-paste into all the cracks in the armour repairing 2 points per unit of paste (how is that for burst rep )as for original post: shields  armour. if you want regen go with a shield buffer .. its what the cool kids are doing these days."
"/bumpi'm surprised nobody has anything to say about this topic. it seems like a no brainer to me every time i go to a mission with my drake's cargo bay half full of missiles and end up restocking before the mission is over."
"never.i have however wondered why i'd need such a large cargo for t1 destroyers, nerf it."
"seriously they are fine :) it makes it so you gotta be selective in what you take and don't take."
"what about the thorax? its cargo bay is so tiny, you can't take more than about a couple ganks worth of ammo. then again, its fit is so tight it's not good for much other than a gank or two."
"eve tho i fly amarrian ships these days for missioning... i've never complained about the lack of ammo in minmatar bc's even cruisers.so i fail to see wth your problem is in this area."
"i fly gallente and they have the largest ammo sizes around, the fastest firing close-range weapon (meaning it spends most ammo) and the most cap-demading ships in game. yes, the most, more then amarr. who'se brilliant idea was it to combine cap hungry guns, dual-rep active tank and mwd on one ship?? (hyperion, myrmidon, brutix, astarte) as a result you need a lot of space for ammo and a lot of space for ca boosters, and i do think it is lacking. i think that bs, bc and not so sure about cruisers but thorax is definitely an issue, need bigger cargo hold. there is no reason they should be running out of ammo/cap boosters at this rate. besides, if we have more space for cap boosters and can sustain active tank for more then a couple of minutes, that another reason to have something other then plates on your ship, which is always a good thing. now, i don't whant them to be used for hauling, but it's not like their cargo's are large anyway, and where are those fuel/ammo/booster bays that we where promised???as for the document op composed i am getting this:"
"personally, i think it would be very useful to be able to browse items in a column format similar to the finder in apple's mac os x. the first column could be the item group, then once this is selected, another column appears showing the contents of that group. if an item is clicked in this new column, the item info could be displayed in a third column.just a thought! i'd be happy to hear the collective $0.02!-iraneh"
"[flame] macs are terrible [/flame]overall, still not worth the dev effort to implement."
"i would settle for a predictive search .. would probably push the database hamsters over the edge and have them run rampaging through london though."
"hi,i would like to bring an idea about shares. in real life shares are a part of the society offered for sale to raise capital. a person who buys share/shares of the company is called a shareholder and by acquiring share or shares in the company he/she becomes one of the owners of the company.like in real life the shares in eve can be a way to devide money in dividend between the shareholders (kinda as a remuneration). unfortunatly, ingame people doesnt seem to be using this awsome system because of few broken things. the bigest one is about shareholder quitting the game wihtout giving back the shares making leaks in the corporation dividends.in this post"
"inactive shareholders are not the problem. frankly it isn't a corporation's business if someone is rarely active or completely inactive.the problem is there is no way for a shareholder to feel secure that the corporation will honor anything. plus shares can lead to hostile takeovers, but most people frown on that sort of thing in eve.i think if you lose your ceo to that, it was fair play and you needed a new ceo anyway.i remember having an argument with my first corporation upon its disbandment. i wanted to divide the liquidated assets in the form of isk to the shareholders, but the others wanted the inner circle to split everything, citing that sending isk to inactives was a bad idea. due to the way our corporation was run, i was overruled and they left the investors high and dry. taught me a lot about how not to run a corporation."
"well this is like a society and thats why the ceo must keep 51% of the shares if he want to keep his place =)and yes its kinda corporation business if the shareholder stopped the game and the corporation keeps paying him money for nothing... and that is why nobody use the share system like it should be..."
"i respectfully disagree with this. people get kicked out of corporations all the time for inactivity. some corps tell you when you join up that they expect a certain amount of dedication. i don't think that it's a very friendly way to run things, but i'm not ceo of a nullsec megacorp either.i think there should be some system to allow the return of shares, but i don't think ops idea works. there is no way currently to set a value on the shares, so you cannot \"buy them back\" because the game has no clue how much they were/are worth. and let's say i invested a set of bpos instead of isk when i got my shares... how would the game assign a value to those shares? it would have to be handled by the person issuing the shares, and that in my opinion creates more problems than it would solve.in my mind, it's critical that shares remain what they are now, just a simple piece of (virtual) paper that represents partial voting stake in a corporation. if you attach an intrinsic value to them it creates a host of associated problems that will prevent this from moving past the proposal stage.does anyone see a problem with a vote/sanctionable action to transfer all corporate shares back to the corp wallet? some ceos might try to scam their corpmates by returning all shares with their (presumed) 51+% voting stake, but couldn't they just take all of the isk out of the corp wallet and run anyway? and as opposed to similar suggestions i've seen where the corp can vote to return one character's shares, this essentially forces a re-issuance of all shares, including to the ceo. this means that a corp can cleanly re-issue all of its shares to valid shareholders whenever it is deemed necessary (by vote)."
"you are correct, but what you are saying has nothing to do with shares which have nothing to do with corporation membership."
"shares are created by corporation and so can be given to other people / more people.. so the part about screwing people around isnt in the idea =) and yeah i understand about the bpo investement.. but when the shares are bought the ceo and the current owner of the bpo will set a price on thoes bpo for see how many shares he will get... but anyways my request isnt about it.. my request is about using the dividend system.. where u can share an amount of money between shareholder.. i would like to be able to use this dividend system between shareholder than do the process manually because some shareholders did stop playing and it isnt fair for the others shareholders to see there benefit down because of some inactif."
"but you have to understand that inactives only matter when you use the greed rule. if player a buys corp b shares for 10,000,000 isk and player a goes inactive, why can you justify robbing player a of his due dividends simply because you think player b 'deserves more pie' despite the size of the pie remaining unchanged. all due to player a becoming apparently inactive.i for one consider inactive in eve, to be something around a month or more without logging in.the only time you can justify not wanting dividends going to a character is when the character is biomassed. but then you have no way to recover those shares.there is absolutely no valid reason to refuse to give someone a dividend because you think they are inactive."
"u make a point here and thats why i was proposing to do a corporation vote to buy the shares back to the price they have been sold to. im not speaking about all shares. juste shares that have been attribute to player a.. that way if that player a gone inactif for 10month and come back after that, he maybe dont have shares into the corporation, but he got his money back..and also its not like player a did work for the corporation in his 10month of inactivity.. so not fair to other invester that did work the capital of the corporation =)"
"bumping this thread because damn it you guys."
"supported, would add a nice little addition to stealth hunting.so hows the advertising campaign for the next csm election coming? :p"
"fyi, this is the assembly hall so u might wanna take your \"idea\" and start at the features and ideas forum first."
"lmao !!!"
"ccp would have opened themselves up to a substantial lawsuit if they'd fabricated an nda charge against ank. the fact that she said she'd be able to show how it was fabricated \"tomorrow\", and said that months and months ago, points to ccp not only not fabricating it, but ank not being able to argue it. just let it go, it's over."
"part 2and 3"
"you'd think at this point someone would have designed a fairly realistic voice synthesizer, at least, one better than microsoft sam or jane or whatever they're using these days."
"doesn't really make sense since eve doesn't have sound, though."
"just got the reedeemer was very supervised with my inability to even jump past consolation's gates. for the ships price i expected much more so far it's just a shiny thing with no real use. it will die real fast and burn a whole in my wallet. i don't see every using it in combat other than jumping a fleet a single jump..."
"i don't see a reason why not to do so"
"no!!bots should be punished harshly and they should never be used in eve i don't care if its for the market. let the market truly show the player prices and not the bot prices and players having to fight the prices to sell their item"
"no"
"me too.when i first started this game a few months ago, i was nearly overwhelmed by all the loads and loads of content that made sense and was balanced and stuff. for a time it seems, ccp did nothing but churn out excellence. it came slowly but surely, and i have no doubt i would have stuck with eve way back then had i started playing early on.but more and more lately, ccp is running eve like the other games out there. it might make a few extra people try it out, but that's not what will make them stay. what separates eve from most games is already hard-written into it, and most people will never like it. but those of us who are here, who plan to stay here, this is exactly what we want. excellence. pure, smart, and balanced. and we're willing to pay for it, or to wait for it."
"nope. no amount of time can create a non-oriental vherokior.i vote no. i am a role player, and will not change bloodlines. if i am no longer allowed the correct racial appearance for this alt, i will scuttle my characters and close my account. (yes you can have my stuff if i'm forced to leave)--signed, non-asian ytamii arval"
"supported."
"look, i am unhappy about the whole walking in stations thing to begin with, with the whole mini games in stations and the 9 yards. people inside stations do not contrbute to pvp, and fo me, eve is about pvp (the last embers of it as it becomes facebook online). but people want avatars and constumes and pets and all that crap. . . needless to say, i have had this avatar, and have identified people by their avatars for 7 years now. . .this change i am not looking forward to - so the rest of you all have to suck up and take it too and blame the wow playrs or something."
"there's a lot of bloodlines whose options are now restricted beyond what was possible in the old editor.either bring them back or allow us a change of bloodline!"
"if we are not able to pick bloodline in new creator at least it should be possible to make your character look similar to old one. for example, it should be obvious that changing look from european to asian or other way around is too remarkable to be acceptable change without option to re-pick bloodline."
"why the hell not?"
"so, what, choosing race+bloodline for aesthetic reasons automatically puts others on a higher pedestal than those who chose for mechanical benefits? you realize what you're saying here, right? choosing for min/max reasons is as valid a choice as choosing for aesthetic reasons. the point here is that they removed the mechanical benefit as a choice, meaning it no longer is a choice to begin with, but those of us who chose for that reason are stuck with it even though it is no longer a valid option. i don't much like being forced to stick with an invalid option, thank you very much. realize that all other choices we make in the game do not live with us for the rest of our playing lives. ships can be replaced. isk can be regained. race and bloodline, however, cannot be changed, ever, unless you start over from the very beginning. oh, gawd, this is lulzy. this is just far too lulzy. i mean, seriously?this is hilarious. this is the exact same argument people had against the removal of learning skills. \"i put up with it, so you can too!\""
"nerf the dram"
"yes, they are. you lock up a target, you say \"drone, go to that specific target and do your stuff.\" and, glitches aside, they do that. yes, drones are a sub-class of tee's and work like drones do. just like regular missiles work like missiles do, fof missiles work like fof missiles do, guns work like guns do, and so on. analogy is almost always misleading. operational definitions are not. no, that's not odd at all, as logistics ships are repair ships. if they'd named logis \"medic ships\" and logi drones \"medic drones\", or \"repair ships\" and \"repair drones\" it'd still be the same situation. i have been. tee's have a very specific role, nature and balance within the game. even your caveat about drones and their mothership being jammed falls within that standard of behavior; tee's must be directed at a locked target. drones are simply a subset that has a provisionally continuous effect. if you are jammed, you still must re-establish a lock in order to redirect your logi drones' or combat drones with specificity."
"the reason that they are targeted outwards is both incidental (because it wouldn't make much sense to be able to shoot yourself) and intentional (likely indeed for balance in the sake of remote reps). the locking mechanism is likely a balancing aspect to give smaller ships a \"grace period\" against bigger ships, and also to support things like ecm and sensor dampeners. none of these things are really a coincidence, and none of it matters because drones are not tees.this is a gross oversimplification of a fundamental game mechanic. all your other tees operate based on other rules: if you don't have a target lock, the effect can't be used. you can't lock them, you can't initiate the effect. drones do not fall under this catagory. i need a lock to specify a target, but my drones can, will, and do attack on their own, if i have a target or not. it's actually quite useful when i'm in a mission and my hobgoblins go around blasting all the frigates while i pummel the bigger ships with heavy missiles.now, the fact that drones depend on your targeting systems i imagine is largely coincidental, because as i've explained before, there probably wasn't any better mechanism at the time. there's no other real way besides the targeting system to select both your drones and a target at the same time. you've also pointed out that remote rep drones don't go out and rep by themselves; that, too, is probably largely to do with the fact that ccp didn't feel like assembling an elaborate priority list on \"who to heal first\". the reason your drones can't target you is likely simply because until logistic drones existed there was no reason to have your drones target you.it sounds to me like you're trying to shoehorn drones into a very broad catagory without any real grasp of what they are or how they're intended to work. let me reflect your tee questions back on you: do you think it's just a coincidence that drones have their own targeting systems? do you believe ccp just flipped a coin upon deciding to have all their tees act local to the drone instead of the mothership(and their tees do act local to the drone, by the way)? do you believe that the fact that drones can be individually targeted and shot is some arbitrary decision that somebody came up with? that they show up on the overview? that they are, for all practical intents and purposes, small robotic ships?do you really think the designers wrote down \"tee\" on a whiteboard and then came up with drones before adding a bunch of arbitrary provisions on them that give the impression that drones are their own entities and that the targeting mechanism is simply used in lieu of a better system?you're missing the forest for the trees."
"remote reps aren't local to the ship. they are local t the drone. that's why they:a: can rep any ship but themselvesb: are independent of the ship's capacitorc: have a targeting system of their ownif you dispute that the remote repairer installed on the drone is local to the drone, then show me that the drone can repair itself. since we aren't dealing with quantum effects, as a remote-repper is a macroscopic object, it is not subject to dislocality and cannot be local to two entities. no, it is still no more relevant that my granny's maiden name because nobody asks tee's to apply to the hot of th said tee.again, drones or dronebays are not tee's, your argument is flawed. ok, your obviously hardcore, so let me spell it out for you: point number one:ever heard of guard/assist commands? meet me up in game and i will demonstrate that i can get my drones to kill you specifically without my domi ever locking you.that's first. if you are confident that i am lying than meet me in game and you will be bale to demonstrate my embarrassment. i will even fraps it for you and put it on youtube. if you don't have the balls for that, stop trolling.point number two:the word specific is completely irrelevant because we only need to establish weather drones have their own targeting systems. if they do, they can lock targets themselves, an no target lock from the mothership is necessary. in that case, they can repair/shoot/web/kill/have sex with their mothership. since:you can jamm each drone separately independently of the mothershipjamming the mothership does not stop the drones firingthey can engage other ships, specific or otherwise, without target lock from the mothershipi conclude that they do have targeting systems. if you would like to dispute it, come back to point number one.point number three:since guard command orders a drone to attack any enemy, not specifically, self-repair command should order the drones to repair any one of it's motherships, non-specifically. happy? and if you are still disputing what a drone is, here you go:and from evelopedia:that's ccp defining it for you. not tee's. remotely controlled vehicles, i.e. ships."
"i would like to see this put to action"
"holy cascades of quoting!looking in from the outside all i hear is:finn: trololololol trolololol! just drop it it finn. you've been proved wrong and now your credibility is at an all time low!"
"a dishonest return to your \"they are ships\" fiction. all practical intents? all? okay, get in a hobgoblin ii and undock in it. loot a drone's mods once it's destroyed. salvage it. use it to bump a ship. open its cargo hold and put some exotic dancer in it. command its specific flight path, velocity, orbit range. store it in a carrier's ship maint bay. no?similar =/= fungible. you avoided quite a few questions, most importantly the actual reasons behind balance, cooperative play, slot layouts, etc... also:-\"it wouldn't make sense if you could shoot yourself with your own guns or rep yourself with your own remote reppers, that's just silly. but you can shoot yourself or rep yourself with your drones. connection? don't see it.\"-no, it's not about a \"grace period\". this is where your inexperience hamstrings you, especially since sebo'd battleships still lock small **** fast. it's because being able to target in order to direct effects is inherently limiting and balancing.-and yes, drones are tee's despite your word-games to the contrary. no, it's another area where your lack of knowledge of game mechanics gets in the way. without a lock, your drones act almost identical to fof missiles' aggro patterns. with a lock, you can achieve specificity and redirect drones only as long as you maintain locks on targets, which again is part of the inherent limiting and balancing nature of tee's. no, this is just because you don't understand tee's (and why you neglected to answer several of the questions that i again reposted, at your request this time.)ccp could have, quite easily, used any number of tricks to have drones converted to local effects to their motherships. most absurdly simple.no. it's the exact same reason that my guardian's remote reppers don't just decide \"who to heal first\". and why my combat drones will kill a friendly pilot if he accidentally aggresses me and i do not stop them. you already identified being able to web yourself into warp as an advantage, don't backtrack. have you looked up irony any time recently? no, actually they don't. have you not noticed that drones do not have scan res, locking range, (or weapon signature resolution)? the use of drone \"targeting\" is a kludge, just like rats' characteristics were kludged together to get them to serve their function, not because having unlimited cap-and-ammo is due to a special module that they fit. you've already admitted that no, they don't and you need to use other drones to rep a damaged drone. drones are persistent effects resident on the grid, and their ability to be removed from play is built into them from the ground up. just like missiles/bombs can be smartbombed and bombs can be shot."
"support this.btw, searching google for the phrase 'targeted external effects' returns this thread and only this thread."
"you are attempting to change the subject since you cannot address the fact that, yes, it would be a change, so noted. you are also playing games as drones reps would be local if applied to the ship and are also external to individual drones as they are the ship's drones.you really should know what you're talking about first. -the thought experiment you're actually referring to showed that the state vector exists in a supposition of multiple eigenstates before it collapses, and as einstein pointed out to schrodinger, this exists for macroscopic events like a barrel of gunpowder, too. -nonlocality has to do with entanglement, and is proven by bell's inequality, but is related to but not the same as the collapse of the wave function. -most importantly, none of that has anything to do with the fact that a ship's drones do not serve as a non-targeted local effect for their mothership because remote repping is a tee, and they also can not self-repair their own armor or structure. people have indeed asked for remote reps (tee's) to be applied locally. guardians are 100% based around applying remote reps. qed.strawman. and yes, drones are tee's if they are applied with specificity, or aggro-driven effects like fof missiles. in the case of rep drones, they are only tee's because they remote rep. you are totally ignorant of game mechanics. guard/assist commands do not allow for specificity without a lock. guard, in specific, allows for no specificity at all. fiction. if 100 ships attack you and i am one, without a lock you have zero specificity. you are dishonestly referring to autoaggroing onto a sole attacker and pretending that it's specificity. again, as you are the one who is lying (claiming that autoaggroing drones have specificity) and trolling, please stop lying in order to make **** up and claim i'm trolling when what i'm saying is actually factual and you're lying. wrong. the facts that drones only have autoaggro (and rep drones don't even have that) and must be directed via a lock is germane to the discussion, your evasions aside. this is simply a lie. you can not direct drones against a specific target without a lock. 1. fiction. guard duplicates the \"aggressive\" drone stance. 2. fallacy. autoaggroing mechanics are different, as proven by the fact that remote reps do not randomly rep anything. more trolling. -ccp doesn't write the evelopedia, and even if they did, fluff text is not game mechanics. -the evelopedia doesn't say that remote reppers are tee's, they still are. if something is stated to be a 'mammal' that doesn't mean it's not carbon based, too.-open your assets tab. inset \"ship\" as the string. hit search."
"enough with the arguments. just say no, not supported, or yes, supported. click ya support link if applicable. end of story.i happen to know that drones can indeed target your own ship. pretty sure a lot of people who played eve for a while remember the old ecm'ing your own drones thing? what did they do? yup, got ****ed off, targeted you and started tryna take mumma down... bad drones"
"want to see how many times \"fast tackle\" appears in the game-info when you look up specific ships? how about \"alpha boat\"? how about \"dps source\"? how about \"damage sink\"? how about \"forward scout\"? how about \"area denial\"? how about \"glass cannon\"? zero? ya don't say..."
"you know what, let me just cut through this. let's say i agree with you on the whole \"drones are effects\" thing; i don't, i think it's a preposterous supposition which willfully ignores the very fundamentals of their design, but i'll entertain your theory for the sake of argument.even assuming they are tees, they are still tees with a dozen oddities which make them almost (i would argue completely) unrecognizable as tees. they are subject to many clauses and oddities, and they operate like no other tees in the game.let's suppose we just allow this one tee to become self-targeted.no others. i'm not saying \"let me use my external modules on myself\"; just drones. they're already different to most tees in many different ways. what's one more to the pile? if you want to talk about gameplay balance, and i mean gameplay balance, not arbitrary categorization balance, that's fair enough. but you've still yet to give me a reason against the change. slippery slope? major game breaker? give me something i can use. i've been more than lenient with you.also:he searched google. he didn't search the game info, he searched the internet.just for amusement, i searched google for each of those terms:\"fast tackle\": 7,610 results\"alpha boat\": 21,100 results\"dps source\": 6,130 results\"damage sink\": 6,580 results\"forward scout\": 46,200 results\"area denial\": 134,000 results\"glass cannon\": 34,000 results\"targeted external effects\": 4 resultsfor even further amusement, i googled every phrase above, but added a + eve to each search. here were the results:\"fast tackle\" + eve: 3,320 results\"alpha boat\" + eve: 365 results\"dps source\" + eve: 294 results\"damage sink\" + eve: 542 results\"forward scout\" + eve: 5,420 results\"area denial\" + eve: 6,840 results\"glass cannon\" + eve: 35,500 results\"targeted external effects\" + eve: 2 results, both this thread"
"remote repair systems are physically mounted on the done, who owns the drone is irrelevant yet again. brick is put in top of a building, and it will fall down and kill the person walking below regardless of weather that poor bastard owns the house the brick was part of. i remember my drones targetin me as well a few times. finnagain zero- i loved how you attempted to prove that a drone is a tee by using quantum mechanics how the **** is this relevant??? all i said was that a remote repper is not a subject to quantum effects. yes, quantum effects do exist, and while they apply to macroscopic objects, they are not observable under any realistic circumstances. and stop trying to demonstrate my incompetence in physics with quotes from wikipedia. yeah, i am glad you noticed, would be funny if drones did go round repping random peoplefirst of all, how do you know they don't have it? because it'snot in the show info window? let me spell it out:drones can targetto target you need targeting systemstherefore drones have targeting systems. prove me wrong, i dare ya. if you still dispute that, get o sisi, or, yet better, tq with a bud and i will prove you wrong. simple. i said it three times already, you keep on trolling about some bs. if you aren't gonna stand by your words, they are just sound.and you know why google gives no results on tee? because they are not called tee, they are called projected effect. not tee, troll."
"hell no. absolutely not supported."
"discussion has strayed from balance, to implementation. of course it could be put in game, quite easily.but for every ship that can use drones, you have to figure the cap-free extra tank, or de-facto extra low slot. this is a ton of rebalancing for ccp, and ofc would be taken to the extreme by players.eg. the ratting carrier you've tackled and neuted out, has initiated self destruct. you're overheating your guns, racing the clock, and out come a dozen-odd repair drones.."
"good luck, i tried to get dranzer to address actual balance, usage issues something like half a dozen times, and even when he claimed to be ready to (finally) address them and requested that they be reposted from a post where they'd been repeated, something like six posts before he asked, he still ignored those facts. and claimed that the reason you need to have a target lock on something in order to apply an effect is to give a \"grace period\" to small ships. the issue is that they want 'em, so they should have 'em. game mechanics be damned. lying and trolling, again. you brought up qm.i pointed out you were misusing it. naturally you want to lie and change the subject.oh, and stop lying and trolling by claiming that i'm quoting wikipedia. yah, i've asked you specifically to stop lying in order to troll, you seem not to want to stop that either. no, the \"guard\" command does not, at all, let you tell your drones which of your attackers you want them to attack. but since anybody who knows how the game works knows you're trolling, instead of wasting my time, why don't you attempt to explain what series of mouse clicks and/or keyboard shortcuts you use to tell a set of five drones in \"guard\" stance to attack one out of 100 ships that are aggroing you. might be hard to describe a process that doesn't exist and you're trolling about, but go for it. it might be funny. they're a sub-class of projected effects that a require a target lock. the term is descriptive and analytical. and there was no need to discuss it before and elaborate on the game mechanics for it, because there haven't been a few people complaining that they absolutely need to be able to apply tee's (or tpe's if you're trolling)to the ships that are using them. and naturally you are trolling some more, because they're not \"projected effects\" within eve, that's just another chosen descriptor ascribed to them, and one that eft happens to use. it's not more the \"actual\" term than anything else. and despite this new trolling \"i googled for it and other people hadn't used it!\" dodge, \"projected effects\" generally refers to predicted consequences for something. zomg, eft is wrong, ayieeee!troll.and since people wanted external effects to be local without a target lock, however, tee was a relevant term to choose. since they are effects, that are based on a target lock, and are external to the ship using them and people wanted them to be independent of a target lock and local to the ship using them. but you know that, and you're trolling. you realize that's completely irrelevant, yes? of course you do, that's why you brought it up. the fact is that tee's is a descriptive term applied to a well organized and defined class in eve. just like \"fast tackle\". pointing out that it hadn't been used before, largely because there hadn't been a few dozen folks who very much wanted to self-target remote reppers, is a non sequitor.just like your earlier trolling about how apples really are oranges and how silly it is to claim that apples are not actually oranges any more than watermelons are oranges. but you know that."
"okay, you know what finn? let me make your argument for you, because you're apparently either too lazy to do it or you don't know how. here's what you should have said in the first place when you came to this thread:then, we could have had a nice discussion about how balanced rep drones are, if they need a buff, if there are compromises we could make upon implementing this, etc etc.instead, you went on a long rambling pedantic rant about how drones are guns on the grounds that there are some esoteric situations in which drones execute functions which vaguely resemble those of guns. then you accused me of comparing apples to oranges when i pointed out that, actually, drones aren't guns, but they bear a heavy resemblance to ships. i can not express how hilariously ironic and hypocritical this is. i'd accuse you of trolling, but evidence tends to suggest that, no, you really do believe what you're saying.i could fight your side of the argument better than you could. i guess the reason you tried to talk about my kill history is because you didn't actually have a response to my arguments.tees exist nowhere but in your own mind. they are an arbitrary categorization you have created, and when somebody came along and pointed out a flaw in that categorization, rather than adapting or modifying your views to accommodate these new facts, you blindly and furiously defended them, regardless of how flimsy or nonsensical they are, because you take any attack on the concepts you've created as an attack on your persona.i don't give a damn about you, finn. but your ideas are nonsensical. if you'd had any solid points, you would have made them by now, but you don't, so you stick to your arbitrary definitions, because if nothing else, they're the only things that you'll never have to change if you don't want to. also, you accuse people of trolling. because if somebody calls you on your bull****, they must be trolling. or an alt. or inexperienced. or ank.anything at all, just so long as you're not wrong."
"totally want this."
"well, you went about a post or two without trolling, at least. of course, as proven by your continued evasions (and your hilarious distortions whereby you tried to claim that i didn't understand mechanics), you don't understand how tee's work, how they fit into the schema of eve, how they're balanced for solo and cooperative play, etc, etc, etc. silly troll. my very first post to the thread was that you might as well let someone use remote reppers on themselves. lying and trolling. quite anywhere i say that drones are guns.you can't, because you made it up. for claiming that drones are ships. which you then retracted, before dishonestly using again while deliberately ignoring the essential differences between drones and ships. more lying. i pointed out that your kills point to a lack of fundamental knowledge, experience and understanding. and even then i offered that you might be on an alt or something understand those anyways, and asked you to identify what you understood about balance, use, slot layouts, etc... you then trolled and claimed that an understanding of the issue was an ad hominem. then you claimed that you had no idea what questions i was asking as how they were \"spread out\" even though i'd reposted to directly to you something like half a dozen posts before you asked for clarification. then you ignored all the questions that you were ignorant about, and ignored the fact that you'd ignored them.and then, as now, the reason you tried to change the subject is that you really can not demonstrate even a baseline level of knowledge or understanding about how tee's work in eve.more trolling, and/or possibly utter ignorance of eve. you are now reduced to actually claiming that there are no effects that are external to the host ship and require a target lock. and again you're simply lying. largely because of the trolling you (and mister \"it's not quantum mechanics! what, you say quantum mechanics has nothing to do with it and i'm misunderstanding quantum mechanics anyways? lol, you're saying quantum mechanics supports your position!) engage in. brilliant concepts though. you lie and troll, you get called out for lying and trolling, therefore it must be an anti-ank conspiracy that you got caught up in. and if you lack any understanding of how combat works in eve it can't be that you lack that understanding and experience, it has to be because you're correct. and if someone offers the fact that you don't have a history that evinces experience but maybe you're on an alt and your main does, that just shows how doubly correct you are."
"your in the wrong forum. they dont want to hear any idea the may disrupt the macro mining bots."
"yes"
"everything weighs something. i suggest there should be a change such that the cargo mass contributes to the overall mass of the ship and thusly affects acceleration and align time. this will make some difference in pvp. sometimes being so far as to allow campers to catch ships. for pve it will significantly slow down logistics i am expecting.all these things would be good things."
"thanks for support. bump."
"if memory serves, a mechanic like this was in effect in the early stages of eve but got dumped for one reason or another. you would have to open up your scanner and right click on a location and it'd let you warp there. this is all second hand though seeing how i started playing after they removed this feature.\signed i approve."
"it would be exceedingly tedious to hunt since grids are only, what, 500km sq? also, you'd need to pick a z-coordinate as well as x and y.and how is this not a stealth nerf to unprobeable ships?"
"this would be the same for neutral or militia logi.if this nerf came it'd just make anyone who persisted with flying logi at all, a crazy person.i think this thread has a bit of butt hurt in it and not much perspective.we went through it on the amarr/matar side from both ends, it really was trolling and shame that ended it.once things get to the point that fleet members are telling the neutral logi \"htfu we're not getting fights\", then it's good as fixed."
"yup, that is the other solution."
"supporting everything that messes up neural logi alts since 2007.on a serious note, the whole things with random people repping your enemy from 70 km away has to end. eihter they have the balls to fight, or they don't."
"1.0"
"7.5/10you forgot to insert numeric values for the attributes on implant slots 8-10. also, i'm not sure i have my math correct, but it seems the full coward set would grant -120.68% to 15 minute aggression timer when pilot is in a capital class ship. is this intentional?"
"absolutely. the pilot thus logs off before he even realizes he has been agressed most of the time. it truly is a step in the future for combat.i appreciate the support. i spent years studying many post on this forum along with others, gathering, nurturing ideas on what would make this game produce less tears. these all seem to fill all those needs. the hard wirings 7 thru 10 actually evolve to the pilot they are plugged into. the more emotional they are about that aspect of the game, the more intense the effect of the implant.a revolution in implants."
"10/10!and where could one pick up these new implants?"
"i can get behind this idea like i get behind freshly sheared sheep."
"gonna make a fortune selling 'lily-livered' lol1000 to snot shot. he know about these new implants yet?"
"what, no sphere implant?i am disappointed..."
"you forgot the cheater set to it members.the alpha could be t2 bpo chance to find in hangar, beta would be succes to yell to gm to delete sbus in dt. gamma could be duplicate the warp disruption bubbles on field etc."
"humor in my assembly hall? well i never..."
"9/10judging by what i've seen throughout the forums, i'd wager that the sob5000 is already plugged into a few people's heads...."
"the problem: as part of the incursion 1.0.1/1.0.2 release some players received a free remap, while others did not. this is unfair as those who did receive a free remap now have a significant training advantage over the others. relevant threadnought is here:"
"supporting my own thread."
"just so it's clear i was one of the ones who only get their timer reset.not suported because we all got a gift. if you didn't have a remap, you were able to remap instantly and if you didn't they just added one. quit whining."
"so instead of filing a petition.... you came over here to whine and cry over a missing remap?sheesh... get over yourself.ps: and as far as i know... those who where due one (legitimately i might add) got theirs.sounds to me you didn't get one because you had used up your remap and now your just bs'ing us.and isn't just a little bit late to be complaining about it now?"
"leave britney.. wait... ccp alone!"
"instant remap != free remap. want."
"can we stop refering to it as a \"free remap\", it's a remap timer reset... the more time you've been waiting for your yearly remap the more screwed you are getting.those that say \"stop whining\"... so i guess when you get ass ****d you provide the lube? ...i suggest you stop whining about valid complaints, even if the game flaws are \"by design\"... oh wait, i bet you have the good part of a year till your next remap... you're laughing huh?lastly, i've been dealing with a volley of a petition that only just got escalated to senior gm... and he says he can't do anything about it. does that mean our statute of limitations on posting about it on the forums is up? make your mind up, hypocrite."
"it would be nice if i could train charisma skills for 6 months like some of the characters who now have 2 remaps available can...for that reason alone i am supporting :)"
"think they left them out to stop noobs from buying an expensive blueprint that they then can't make sales on.moon contents are static, either they've already been probed and the contents are public knowledge or they are in alliance space and come with the space pre-surveyed. usually the only people that buy discovery probes are scam victims and people who don't know better."
"as far as more items being produced, i'm all for it. yes, the information may be out there, but people still buy discovery probes, so there should be a way for players to build them.supporting this, and any other balanced measure which puts npc-sold items into the hands of player manufacturers."
"i support the idea of seeding moon probe bpos. almost every thing in eve should be player made"
"how long has it been a known fact, that missile batteries makes no sense ?other pos artilleries are doing roughly 10x+ the damage of missiles.a missile battery should be two things, cost alot less to maintain/ power cpu wise, or should shoot alot faster.in rl terms, the missile causes the heat when being fired, on a ship, this can be disasterous, and you wouldn't fire every half second, cause you'd melt your hull... now, considering a pos missile battery is roughly 1000x the size of one on a ship, it can handle that load.. instead, we find it uber slow... not only is it slow, but, extremely nerfed, while on a ship, moving would effect the launch of a missile, before hitting trajectory etc..on a stationary platform, with so much room, it should be able to launch so damn straight and true, it would practrically be a projectile weapon. this is of course explained by the 500km+ range.. ( has anyone in eve history attacked a pos at that range??)now, lets consider the other weapons are fine, like the guns and laser and all other etc.. cause why point out that they are in the wrong and caldari is perfect..makes no sense, 99% of people using a pos with those instead of missiles, can't be wrong, could they ?why on earth can a dread with 3-4 weapon out do the total dps of a missile tower at best, even vs. caps in a match for the best setup.i was able to tank 32 cruise batteries in a t1 setup in a bs, for over a minute, due to the fact they didn't all alpha me exactly at same time. i tested this with half as much in vested in almost every other pos weapon.. omg powned... nothing needed to shoot twice, not to mention 3-4 times from the missiles.cruise missiles at a pos, do what less then 20 dps... wow, considering all the requirnments they have, like thousands of power and some cpu, why don't pos's use regular cruise missile launchers from a salvaged battleship... the advantages are clearly there, being 1000x less in size, 3-4x the dps, and you'd be able to fit 100,000 of them on the pos.so, yeah seriously, as matter of integrity, what the heck were you thinking on making them the way they are now ? thats what i would say to ccp. its almost harrassing to find a caldari tower even has a bonus to range on them and 25% rof... when the missiles batteries get like 2.5x damage mod. while other guns are getting like 30-40x+ (roughly 5-10x as much as thier module counter-parts)i would say, missiles are underpowered by a factor of like 65-75% of where they should be. they should do double, if not triple damage, and thats still not as good, not even rough ball park to the other weapons. that would require 4-5x damage , also considering, pos missiles lack the instant effect of hitting, and have to fly to the target...i think missile pos, if not fixed, with upping thier damage, or lowering thier reqs, then, make them do area of effct damage. they are explosive.they have a explosion velocity- use it! have 5km for citadel torps. whats the size of one of these ? basically equivalent to a small nuclear warhead, about 2-3x the size (considering explosion /vs velocity etc) an atom bomb. so... why is it when some one lanches a grenade in rl everyone within a few 100m's will hit the deck, when the explosion is only like 0.5m in width, albeit damage potential is alot further.. when in eve the dev's decided that a multi megaton blast will not effect anouther ship carebear hugging a bs from 100m away.stupid stuff like this, degrades what i personally think about eve, not to mention what many others think about it. someone do something. its dumb! we've been promised fixes for missile weapons etc.. bull they upped the velocity on some rockets and a few ships... crap still. ooh look at me and my 12 dps rockets yesss let me shoot upto 20,000m now hahaha thats ibis is toast! ( just pray the guy in the ibis doesn't fire his civilian railgun, which could crit and do even 10x what a volley of rockets could do)"
"fix missile batteries for caldari pos...i see it as, thier own military would ship in arty from gallente to fit thier own defensive structures, and lose face to thier own men, simply cause its just not worthwhile to use thier own racial weaponry...the ecm bonus for cycling, meh..sure... as soon as it starts to cycle, the ship being jammed can target again anyway, not like it really make much of a difference, it breaks a few more locks in the mean time, saving some time, that can be considered powerful, and well, it is, but not enough to dwarf missiles on a pos..even the citadel ones do crappy damage, still don't get how a dread can siege and do more then a structures citadel..but, um okay...the torps, well, they're torps, they're all fancy and that with thier explosions, ill bite and call that rp and lets make it square..even though..they cost 4x as much power/cpu wise or whatever, and do not even do 4x the damage, nor even close to the same range... derp derpits a no brainer, theres no sense in caldari using missiles for thier towers, why not change them to rails and give them a bonus to rails ? like less powergrid need, could be balanced by the fact caldari ahve low powergrid, and more cpu (rails not even needing cpu) and considering this is completely in the opposite direction of a caldari pos build...it is still better then what they already use, and thier the worst ones for rails! the only thing making any sense is thier love for kinetic damage.how about that as a means to balance...change the range bonus for kinetic damage bonus! sure, people will forgo an omni tank and tank up thier kinetic resists, but still would make more sense tactically then what we have now... and least it forces the opposition to do something to overcome the caldari's pos rather then nothing.if offense is not in the caldari mindset, then boost thier pos's shield regen at the least, or even give them more shields!caldari are fleet oriented, thus more militaristic in nature then the other races, save maybe on par with gallente perhaps, if we follow the stories...then why does thier pos, a possible military asset suck ballz ? maybe a fleet bonus in system with the pos up ?more damage for the defenders within a range of pos ? would definetly give more room for teamwork.the minmatars pos is considered a scrapheap of epic proportions, yet... is considerably better then caldari's a nation who ahve all the resources at thier disposal to do even better then them, yet.. no one mentions how laughable it is ?please for the sake of making sense, fix this. don't go and dwarf the others either, thats not fair. the world of change is best suited for those with imagination and adaptability, not those with restrictions and limitations. add something. don't limit. balance them. do some tests. caldari towers rp wise, sticking to thier weapons of choice/race, make thier pos a sack of crap.how is that explained ? i don't even see one post or story anywhere with some flavour text explaining in eve world/history terms why they suck so much ?is it cause they're so good at merchantilism that they just use anouther races tower, even if the costs of importing would drastically effect having thier own upgraded, still prove worthwhile ? if i was the lai dai corp or wtvr, i wouldn't trust one of my labs to a caldari pos- hell no! i'd up and leave, and go to amarr - at least thier lasers make less ear shattering noise, and less percusion shockwaves - thus i could perhaps study and make some improvements to the caldari pos and become famous for inventing something that everyone overlooked . . i'd be like the guy who invented the zipper or velcro !"
"i have a great shipide battlefrogs(bf) and dronecarriers(dc) .it are a shipclass between non capital ships and capital ships. it are the biggest ships who can go to hi-sec and can use stargates and accelationgates. the dronecarriers can use 20 standard drones and the battlefrogs use large weapons(how on a bs) and it have a bonus of 150% to their dps. the pricer for bf are 500-600 mil isk and for dronecarriers 400-500 mil iskskills:fraction bs lvl4 and dronecarriers or battlefrogs at lvl1shipdetails:galente bf:special ability: 150% to dps of large hybyrd turrets.galente bs skill:5% bonus to dps of large hybird turretsbattlefrogs skill:25% to maximum range to loot wrecks and cansdetails:max speed: 94m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 625000tintertia rate: 0,075cargohold: 1250m3dronehangar: 300m3shield hp: 65000 rech rate 5000sarmor hp: 72000hull hp: 75000hi-slots: 7med-slots: 6low.slots: 8turret count: 6reactor: 175000mwcpu: 500cap: 45000 rech rate 7500sgalente dc:special ability:can use 15 more dronesdronecarrier skill:10% to dps of large hybird turretsdetails:max speed: 90m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 665000tintertia rate: 0,07cargohold: 1000m3dronehangar: 2500m3shield hp: 75000 rech rate: 5400sarmor hp: 87500hull hp: 100000hi-slots: 5med-slots: 8low.slots: 8turret count: 4reactor: 250000mwcpu: 750cap: 32000 rech rate: 4000samarr bf:special ability:150% to dps of large laser turretsamarr bs skill:5% bonus to grid use of large laserturretsbf skill:25% bonus to maximum loot rangedetails:max speed: 85m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 655000tintertia rate: 0,073cargohold: 1700m3dronehangar: 250m3shield hp: 50000 rech rate: 5400sarmor hp: 87500hull hp: 80000hi-slots: 6med-slots: 5low.slots: 8turret count: 6reactor: 150000mwcpu: 650cap: 38000 rech rate: 4000samarr dc:special ability:can use 15 more dronesdronecarrier skill:10% to optimal range of large laser weaponsdetails:max speed: 80m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 700000tintertia rate: 0,0675cargohold: 1100m3dronehangar: 2750m3shield hp: 67500 rech rate: 5400sarmor hp: 97500hull hp: 85000hi-slots: 5med-slots: 7low.slots: 7turret count: 2missile count: 3reactor: 150000mwcpu: 650cap: 34000 rech rate: 4000scaldari bf:special ability:150% dps bonus to cruise missiles and torpedoescaldari bs skil:7,5% dps to cruise missiles and torpedoesbf skill:5% to knietic damange of cruise missiles and torpedoes.details:max speed: 75m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 600000tintertia rate: 0,08cargohold: 1800m3dronehangar: 200m3shield hp: 75000 rech rate: 5400sarmor hp: 57500hull hp: 65000hi-slots: 6med-slots: 8low.slots: 6turret count: 0missile count: 6reactor: 120000mwcpu: 1050cap: 36500 rech rate: 4000scaldari dc:special ability:can use 15 more dronesdc skill:5% to rof of cruise- and torpedo launcher modulesdetails:max speed: 70m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 650000tintertia rate: 0,07cargohold: 1000m3dronehangar: 2000m3shield hp: 100000 rech rate: 5400sarmor hp: 77500hull hp: 85000hi-slots: 4med-slots: 8low.slots: 5turret count: 0missile count: 4reactor: 450000mwcpu: 850cap: 22500 rech rate: 4000sminmatar bf:special ability:150% to dps of large projectile turretsbf skill:5% to dps of large projectile turretsminmatar bs skill:5% to rof of large projectile turretsdetails:max speed: 90m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 640000tintertia rate: 0,078cargohold: 1700m3dronehangar: 400m3shield hp: 67500 rech rate: 5400sarmor hp: 67500hull hp: 67500hi-slots: 7med-slots: 7low.slots: 7turret count: 6missile count: 0reactor: 150000mwcpu: 850cap: 22500 rech rate: 4000s"
"minmatar dc:special ability:can use 15 more dronesdc skill:5% to dps of large projectile turretsdetails:max speed: 85m/swarp speed: 2au/smass: 725000tintertia rate: 0,072cargohold: 1200m3dronehangar: 3500m3shield hp: 87500 rech rate: 5400sarmor hp: 85000hull hp: 87500hi-slots: 5med-slots: 8low.slots: 7turret count: 4missile count: 4reactor: 350000mwcpu: 850cap: 35500 rech rate: 4000s"
"no."
"in the roleplaying world, this is called losing game balance. like when your dungeon master hands out the \"super mega laser zapping rod amulet staff sword of instant dragon slaying +1000\"it's amusing to read.it's not going to get any (serious) support."
"by thatlogic overview is free intel.let's make us click 8 buttons in a sequence to get overview to refresh so we have to work for it!"
"or better yet, dump the overview and make us sort through stuff visually."
"client would need some re-writing to make it so no local means you can't tell when someone enters your node, only your grid, but it could be an interesting counter to botters if suspected / high activity systems lost local until activity returned to a normal threshold."
"if we are going with how it is for irl police then no irl insurance company would insure anyone in eve"
"im not hopping back and forth, i stated why rl policing wouldnt work in eve because no consequence is serious enough to force people to obey,its the same reason why player policing wouldnt work. then i stated that if you wanted to be a vigilante and shoot the criminals before they shot you, you'd be a criminal. the only way to have the law on your side, is to shoot second. pve will always happen the percentage of people getting ganked outside of hulkageddon is small, noticable but small. what you want is the right to shoot anyone whos ever ganked in the past and i cannot support that idea because basically it punishes one group of players for the way they play the game. if someone wants to be a highsec ganker thats their choice and if thats how they wanna spend their 15 dollars per month thats their prerogative, and neither you or i have the right to tell them to stop or that it isnt cool."
"i don't want them to stop ganking. i want them to stop hiding behind concord so i can fight them. if they won't treat highsec as highsec, then it shouldn't be, for them too. i have no problem with them having killright on me either, if that's the issue."
"bobbeh is clearly a highsec suicide ganker. trying to make someone who benefits from a loophole to support plugging it in is a waste of breath, and quite stupid. how can he scan and pick targets in peace if you're allowed to shoot him? he's interested in farming isk, not fighting you."
"actually that would be very hard for me as my only 2 non capital alts are a frieghter alt in an npc corp and a recon alt for cynos. my opposition comes from something that makes highsec easier or safer. and you can shoot anyone at any time in highsec you just face the same penalties as him. as i said earlier if your scared of getting ganked take a webbing alt with you and warp to 0 on gates you will warp off immediately every time. if you dont wish to do this your just lazy, and deserve running the risk of being ganked. i have been subject to my fair share of ganks in my time playing eve and only a few times have they actually succeeded."
"i doubt he even flies a freighter or run missions. he just wants to shoot someone. lowsec is empty, null is blobby, then there are the highsec suicide gankers just waiting on gates and scanning people without a care in the world. can't justify shooting helpless carebears, but gankers are criminals, and there's plenty of them, it's such a shame that they cannot be shot.how about this: instead of concord spawn, a bunch of you spawn in your insured pvp boat and kills the infringer. then free to chase, kill and ransome for the duration of killright. with your pvp skills being the only limiting factor. there, instant pvp fix."
"lol well i do fly a frieghter, but no i dont mission. and your right i like shooting people, but i generally do that in lowsec or npc 0.0 . seriously tho i know people who are gankers and its what they enjoy doing and thats their right as paid subscribers to the game. if i wanna shoot people in highsec we wardec them, its fun watching entire fleets of tempests go pop as they gank someone. if they are bad gankers and they get to neg 10 then yes i will shoot them in highsec but if they are good they will do it a few times then rat and mission back up then rinse and repeat. which just like all the other mini professions is a part of the game"
"ho about this - we all get kill rights on everyone all the time. . .then we are getting somewhere.this idea is either:1) carebears uniteor2) a really bad way to get retaliation free pvp in eve.suicide gankers are doing high sec a grat service by reminding people that nowhre is safe. to make high sec even more safe is to continue with this teible trend towards high sec becoming 'safe space'."
"when they're neg 10 they either run fast in a light ship or get pinned by npc police. you won't get the fun of shooting them.the problem with suicide gankers is not that they do what they want (farming on steroids), but that's it's too easy. plex runners spend time scanning, effort running plex, and risk in lawless parts of space, plus luck, to obtain the mods. carebears go through countless hours of mindnumbing grind to buy them. then gankers get rich for minutes of work and zero risk, and contract recycled mods right there in motsu and irjune instead of jita at undercutting prices to explorers, for a fast buck. thanks to them, market is flooded with deadspace stuff, carebears are avoiding them in favor of cheaper faction mods that they use their own lp and don't get ganked often for, and explorers are left holding the bag. getting rich should involve either work or risk, or in case of explorers, both. extending killrights should add a degree of risk to suicide ganking, thus making it balanced. and yes, i'm an explorer/plex runner. their \"mini-profession\" getting into the game is pushing my mini-profession out of the game. exploits need balancing."
"its not easy though, first they have to get the fleet together and online. then find a suitable target and stalk it. then they need to get everyone in position and kill it, and scoop before someone else does. then they all die. then they must recover their sec loss refit their ships and go out again.not to mention the whole procedure is chance based, because they aren't guaranteed to get the good drops.they commit a crime and in return they lose their ship and sec status. their reward is the chance to get expensive drops, which they have to split with their entire fleet.why should carebears flying pimped out bs's be safe in highsec? why should anywhere in eve be 100% safe. gankers are the necessary evil that comes with carebears flying ships with modules worth 5 to 10 times the value of the ship itself."
"because you can totally cloak while lighting a cyno.define unstoppable. because i'm pretty sure slightly improved cloaking abilities for all ship classes won't cause a covert ops frigate to faceroll supercarriers any time soon.this actually makes sense. in fact, i would be in support of a module or implant that would act as an active scanner and could display blips in the game world where certain sites of activity occurred, such as a ship cloaking itself. the blip could gradually fade as time goes by, letting the player know approximately how much time has passed since it happened, in case they weren't looking at the spot at that very moment.and i agree with taking local out of nullsec but not out of lowsec."
"one of th ways to catch a cloak coming in is to put a bubble up and actually seeing where it uncloakd so you can try to decloak it. . . sinc you can't decloak except to actually bump it basically. . .knowing where it came in is important for the dictos to keep bubbles up, for intis to go to that area and so on. . . sure its useless 99% of the time. . .but somtimes you get it. this would be kinda imba for cloakers actually considering there is no counter for them yet.once there is (and yes, thre will be one. . .its just a matter of time) then lets come back to this imo."
"not supportedyou would be surprised at how many people get nervous and double click their cloaks and are then screwed. cloaks are not meant to make your ship invulnerable. you should see them for the sec that you do and be able to attempt a decloak."
"you obviously have never done low-sec camps with remote sebos on an arazu :) insta lock a frigate and point(s)... if he could cloak without being visible after jumping low-sec would be safe space for transports, recons and covert ops.think before posting"
"just a sidenote (and sneaking in a support of my own): there is indeed a very brief window which allows the cloaker to be caught. if it were otherwise, i wouldn't be making this proposal."
"no. there is already way too much cloak this and that which is especially annoying in low sec where it is already difficult enough to catch anything.that little time you spent uncloaked at least gives a hint where the cloaker is going and where it is now. not acceptable to change it more powerful the way it is now."
"i don't think you should be able to catch cloacked ships in low-sec. they ar emade to escape from null, not even low-sec camps"
"sir. i don't think you fully realize that there is very good possibility to catch cloaker in null and good chance even in low sec if you put effort on it. however it requires a special setup in low sec making i.e. cloaking haulers pretty op there. i do not believe ccp intended to make anything uncatchable. however this suggestion would drastically change it. which would be very bad thing."
"i think i do fully realise there is a good possibility.. well, not so good possibility, to catch cloaker in null. but in my opinion clacking ships should be almost invulnerable in low-sec while cloaked, unless the pilot makes a mistake."
"sorry m8, nothing should be uncatachble ever.in loww sec its basically impossible to catch a cloaker already - bot impossible - almost impossible. that slight differenc is really key imo.in 0.0 its difficult to catch a cloaker, easier, but difficult still. its remarkably balanced - and i zip around in my cheetah all th time and basically fear nothing in low sec, and just keep an eye out in local in nill sec. . . and i have only ever lost a cloaker once when moon probing yay back when, and it as luck on th opponents part. my anathema - one of the first ingame - is the same one i have had for almost half a decade. i was the first in cop to train cov. ops, paied a small fortune for the ship, and i still have it. . . and i use it a lot. i just don't see how it can get any safer without becoming completly imba"
"don't see why not. if someone can instantly cloak off a gate, a cap ship should be able to instantly cloak too. the threat associated with either is similar. sub cap could jump in, instantly cloak, move to their range decloak and engage. the current mechanic is much more fair. the jump cloak gives both sides information and does not provide an unfair advantage. the suggested change would provide an unfair advantage."
"edit: a technical premise for this proposal was flawed. thanks to aineko macx for clarifying how standings are stored in relation to the client:the spirit of the proposal remains the same: allow us infinite standings slots, or at least practically infinite slots (5000 or more). it would not be hard to implement, and would be a great help for those of us who are hampered politically by it. everybody does not fly nbsi, some of us do fly nrds and need to keep track of blues and reds alike, not just blues and neutrals.the original proposal is below.-----------------------------------having been bugged by the 300 standings slots limit for some time, and understanding that increasing that limit might mean extra load upon the servers, i propose this:give us an option on the client side to enable infinite standings slots. all slots should then be stored in a local database on the users computer. if any standings are stored on the server side (those fitting the 300 limit), those should be synched to the local database (include a mechanism to prevent more than one synch every 24h or so, to prevent excessive server calls).after this has been enabled, all standings checks should be run by the client against the local database, decreasing (possibly) the ammount of traffic from client to server (and back), and also allowing users to freely put as many standings as they like.it would of course also be nice to have a feature to backup this database, so that it could be restored after a reinstall, or moved to another computer.i believe the benefits speak for this solution, and that it is technically feasible. it would be a great addition to the game."
"i agreethumbs up buddy :)"
"corp standings/nap train on server, your personal standings on your pc. you're the only one who can see your personal standing anyway, so no need to sync."
"what about multiple clients on multiple pcs? so how about an export function?"
"nugget - thanks, i did not know that. in that case, the problem is even easier to solve, just give us the ability to set infinite standings as it is. why do we have this limit at 300? why should it not be reworkable?professor bunsen - yes, i had that in mind as well, thats what i was suggesting when i said that it should be backupable, partly so that you can move it to other installations.thanks for your feedback both!"
"not at bad idea, i support this!"
"i endorse this idea, or any improvement in this area."
"i support this"
"hey all, am i the only one who is bored with the thumbnails ccp has chosen to represent the ships of eve? i would like to see a new effect, possibly a schematic of the ship appear in place of the thumbnail and slowly have detailed added to it like a trace of the hull and then the decks/basic components of the ship hi lighted. the faster you locked a ship the faster the animation would play in the thumbnail. this could also replace the linear appearance of targets at the top of your screen and would not shift all the other locked targets when one was destroyed or you lost lock on it for some reason. this could/would be an option you could toggle so you could keep the original method or go for this \"enhanced\" look."
"i've just noticed this, and i need to point it again: \"raw hp\" implant like \"slave\" does affect capital, but the \"regenerated\" counterpart, the \"crystal\", doesn't (cause it affect the module and not the ship). so diversity, well, i also like that, but it's another big disparity between cap/supercap user, at least as obvious as the other \"shield applying bonus\" issue. keep moving on, we'll bring this to the top"
"i know i have not posted for a while and for that i apologise. been really busy putting the finishing touches on one of our flagship games our company will be releasing soon.anyways i have noticed some extreme crazy and over the top ideas dealing with the capital ship proliferation problem. it is remarkable no one has suggested what i am about to that will be a clean and effective solution:- remove cynos from the game, completely- capital ships can take all gates except those leading to 0.5 or higher- using a gate burns isotopes; amount is dependant on distance to the star it leads tothere you have it. problem solved."
"supporting another good idea for balance"
"i like the idea for that but i have to say no because when people at war they need to get around to places in low/null sec. there will probably be a higher amount of gate camps in low and null sec making it almost impossible to leave a solar system then they can turn around and demand a stupid amount of a ransom to get through"
"my eyes!!!!!"
"dude, your title..."
"just no, it would make moving capitals or supplying deep 0.0 impossible"
"i never really understood why a carrier (which is smaller than a machariel or hyperion) cannot use a gate vov"
"hotdrop whine. btw, you fail at red title."
"i've little to no desire to ever pilot a capital ship and yet i still find this to be a rather poor idea."
"a simple fix to hotdrops would be making cynos only jumpable at the end of the cycle (i.e.: act like an armour repper, not a shield booster). even better, make cynos have \"signal strength\" which is boosted on each cycle of the projector, starting with 1 at the end of the cycle, 2 at the end of the second cycle, etc. sub-caps (i.e.: black ops, jump freighters) can jump or bridge to a strength 1, caps to strength 2, supercaps to strength 3.if the cycle time was reduced from 5 minutes to a few tens of seconds, you might even be able to consider using non-discardable ships for lighting cynos.it doesn't take a plated battleship more than a minute to gtfo grid (unless scrammed) and a minute-and-a-half is more than enough time to warp to and kill the cyno projector (if it's on a sufficiently thin ship).to buff bs pvp, nerf hotdropping."
"noone should listen to you when it comes to anything capital related as every post i've read of yours is anti anything capital, and nerf capitals to death then delete em.bs are dead because of bombers. not caps get it right.bs are also dead because the risk vs reward compared to bc's is to highyou dont gain noticably more by using bs's over bc's but you stand to lose a fair bit more."
"you are right, the rigs changes was a discrete nerf to bs (along with the insurance changes) as it is much less affordable to fly bs fleets now, compared to bc fleets. a better fix would be to reduce the cost/requirements of large rigs; along with introducing super-large rigs for capital rigs."
"of all the posts i've made, only a half-dozen are related to capital and supercapital ships. the only posts i've made regarding capitals and supercaptials have been to nerf hotdropping or the sheer volume of drones a supercap can carry. i can only assume you are launching into a full-on rabid foaming at the mouth rant because you don't want your precious drone-spewing hot-drop action spoiled.if the supercarrier takes a little longer to arrive, it takes a little longer for the fighter-bombers to get there, doesn't it? if it takes 45 seconds to light a cyno long enough for supercaps to jump through, is that really game-breaking? you can still drop supercaps into a contested system before the enemies supercaps can knock out your cyno lighter.\"fixing\" bombers so that they aren't as effective against battleships is only part of the solution. if bombers become half as effective against battleships, the hot-drop fans will just send twice as many supercarriers.on the other hand, adjusting bombers so they aren't as effective against battleships will reduce the risk side of the equation a little, so even in a world where supercaps appearing on-grid instantly while everyone else has to warp for 30 seconds is considered \"just dandy\", bs might become a little more attractive for pvp than bc."
"hey champ fighter bombers arent bombers..... sorry to disappoint you. i was not talking about fighter bombers which at the moment are useless against subcaps. i was talking about the t2 frigate hull known as the stealth bomber. good try tho, im not foaming at the mouth for the fact that less than 40% of my drones fighters aside are combat drones the majority are logistics drones, ew drones, and utility drones.im just sick and tired of seeing people on this forum hurf durf about super caps and nearly non of them have even sat in one. so how are they supposed to know what they are good at and bad at?"
"increase base cost of bc hulls.decrease cost of large rigsintroduce xl rigs for capital ships.that's the only way to balance it out.by the way. the merlin needs a nerf too!"
"that sounds like a good change to eve i like it"
"look into buffing other areas of the game before you impose a tax on bc users.i'm sick of this one-sided mentality."
"it was ccp's own stupidity that got us into this mess. in case you already forgotten, there used to be only 1 kind of rig size. and those rigs cost same as what large rigs cost now. then, in careless act of trying to make the game \"better\", ccp split rig sizes into small, medium, large, and made sure that both small and medium cost just a small fraction of the old price.this act unbalanced the cost/benefit dynamics of eve pvp. the biggest winner in this whole deal was the drake, with other bc following in close lead. the percentage based nature of rigs makes bc get the most advantages over other ships.bc got unjustifiable boost in cost, there was no reason for it."
"that change was long overdue, i still recall the ridiculous cost of trimarking a harbinger. dont even mentioning trimarking your cruisers, that was pretty much reserved for the filthy rich.putting rigs on any frigate that wasnt t2 or faction was pretty much a sure sign that you were completely out of your mind, even for t2 frigs the costs were ludicrous.percentage based means all ships get the same benefit. the drake wasnt the biggest winner of the rig changes (as far as cost goes), the armor tanked cruisers were.i dont see the issue with rig changes, pre-change rigs (especially the armor ones) were reserved for battleships and t2 only in subcap classes bar those that were insanely rich, that was totally broken."
"rigs were never meant to be mainstream. they were supposed to be something \"extra\" you could do by spending more isk. same way as faction mods provide you with a little \"extra\" for more money.if we assume that rigs should be mainstream, just like t2 modules, then we have to carefully analyze the performance/cost ratio of all ship types.the battleship class gets considerable amount of benefit, at considerable cost.frigates get very little benefit, at very little cost.cruisers get moderate improvement, at moderate cost (3 mil a pop, almost half cruiser cost)battlecruisers get almost as much benefit as battleships, at 1/5 cost of what battleships pay.the very fact that you see people whining about drakes and battlecruisers is proof that the imbalance is felt by community at large. people may not understand what is wrong, but they sense the wrongness. and i know that the wrongness is here, in the rig costs."
"the fact that rig sizes were introduced proves you wrong.whining is just that, whining. an irrational knee-jerk reaction.now look at some of those people that have a profound knowledge of game mechanics and tactical skills, like pandemic legion. they seem to do just fine with battleship fleets, even severely outnumbered, against the oh-so-powerful battlecuisers.the only thing wrong with rig costs is capitals and supercapitals using the same rig size as battleships."
"i think they guy above me likes his bc's cost effectiveness, and thus is unable to see the benefit in making them cost a little more over all. by increasing the cost of bc's, you will reduce the amount of combat fleets and roaming fleets that are just 20 bc's cause roaming bs's is stupid compared to bc's and so is cruisers.no ship should do just as much dps as a bs with an equivalent tank and cost a significant amount less . it gets rid of any reason to use bs's in small gang. at least make a rig for bcs that costs more than medium but not as much as large"
"simply easy and title says it all.remove alt posting in assembly hall.why is it needed, if its your opinion is it not your opinion on your main as well?why hide your identity? is it a fear of reprocussion or being laughed at or showing your truly a carebear?"
"not gonna happen. too many people take advantage of forum alts, including csm themselves. they're not gonna change something that benefits them."
"i and my currently active 15 characters support this idea. i'm too lazy to post with them all so count this one as 15 thumbs up's."
"and how do you propose one should determine what is an alt what is not?should ccp browse api data before each and every post to see if that is indeed the character with the most sp?what if its a second or third account where technically any character is a \"main\"?if a post is valid and constructive, what does it matter who/what made it? content > identity."
"why do you need to know? if anything using an alt just ensures that people react to what i actually type and nothing else. that is how it should be."
"wait for the new forums.. if you're lucky you can block posts from people you don't like and (fingers crossed and prayed to god) we'll also get something useful to track those ideas/proposals better..ccp alice should have some blog for us in the oven about this stuff and i'm waiting for it desperately!< alt btw ps: yeah, i don't want my opinions to be brought down on my carebear friends. for me personally i couldn't care less."
"since that measure has no chance of passing. how about some kind of user rating system, which can be positive and negative. people who are known and post good stuff would have positive rating. they'd be taking more seriously. some lame ass alts that only post stupid stuff would have negative rating.the rating system could be set per account, not per character. so you wouldn't know the other alts, but they'd all share the same rating."
"hope springs eternal would love a personal block tool like the monkey-whatchamacallit script for firefox.and how do you prevent a moron alliance from sending a mail saying that \"person x is to get negative marks all week\", thus tanking what might be a perfectly reasonable poster?would work if everyone in eve used the forums but a majority just reads what concerns them and never posts and would not rate either."
"that sounds like forum pvp, a new and exciting addition to eve past time. the rating system wouldn't limit your ability to post, it's just a number.it's be interesting to see who are the strongest forum warriors."
"- corp / alliance not allowing you to post or vote against their agenda- voicing opinions you dont want to associate with your corp / alliance- the internet being filled with nutcases not having better things to do than stalking you irl if they get the ch"
"supported. it's not so much the automatic association of \"buff me, nerf you\" towards an affiliation, it's more of who's really behind the troll that ppl can find out to \"shut him up\". face it, the only ppl who'd object to this r the trolls who r scared of having to face the risk of losing an internet spaceship. and as a bonus, maybe when a corp/alliance finds out it has enough morons in it who might be not even be proposing in their best interests, it might consider recruiting more carefully, instead of setting blue status to everyone in sight. and as a result, maybe the real posters who simply don't know wtf they're talking about might research or ask around on whatever topic they want to propose. on a side note, it's not like anyone can track your identity with your main unless u're an idiot that put some sensitive information in your bio or something, in which case, u already ****ed yourself either way."
"the call to play one short sound effect will not create any more significant load. well unless you smartbomb like 400 pods, but how often does that happen? and the sound effect from that will be worth any lag you get! engine trails and the old cyno effect are badly missed as well, but they have threads of their own around here. also since they are visual type of effect it would involve different devs, thus can be done simultaneously without impacting any other work.more support please. tiny change with awesome results. what not to like?"
"blops need something. imagine where you have your typical black ops sort of fleet with black ops ships - bombers- recons. then you have your cov-ops going around looking for systems to drop in. when they find something they light the covert cyno and you jump from current wormspace to the other wormspace system. as for range: any wormspace to any wormspace would be op. my idea is range isnt so much an issue but rather it tunnels through existing wormholes and expends the mass on each wormhole. so there's no range issue so long as there are actual worms linking the black ops ship's system all the way to the scout who is popping the cyno. the catch is that nobody is around to check how much mass is left on those wormholes. maybe you wont have all your fleet make it. maybe you will get cut off from your scout. perhaps one of the worms are c1 or c2 and your entire fleet go through but when the bridge drops you cant make it. suddenly solo blackops ship in wormspace. would theoretically make being found slightly easier though. in addition the use of blockade runners to move stuff in and out of worms will potentially make life easier on wormhole dwellers. which they sure will need that advantage now that sleepers got debugged on the nos/neuts; making wormholes much harder."
"no way, not supported."
"black ops do need something, that's for sure.this, however, is not it."
"look for something else to make them special.. leave w-space alone.how about you ask for bops and their bridged friends not turning up on local after the use of a cov ops portal?"
"would make more sense if you could just light cov ops cynos in w-space, and jump range was to any w-space system in the same class as the static points to. e.g., bop is in a system with a c5 static; cyno is lit in some other c5. bop can open portal to that c5. maybe balance it with cov ops cyno's showing up on overview in w-space the way they do in k-space, and the cyno lighter and any incoming through the black ops portal show up in local. i think making bops a w-space logistics tool would be kinda neat."
"similar to that a stack of guns would operate. pressing button would send all drones to your current target.i imagine it to be a more optional thing kind of like the current stacking gun mechanics. you would rightclick the white little triangle to \"activate drone icon\" and then it can be moved around on the different spots."
"you can already set a hot key to this. it's not needed."
"actually i could see some potential in this, but needs more concept and design. so allow me to field this one.we can all group drones right? well why not be able do drag the group to the hot bars and when you deploy drones you can click the button and bam engage, or better yet, put a deploy and return keys on there.anyway you proposal has potential just needs a better write up and selling point."
"hmm, add another icon for \"all drones return to orbit\" and ecm drone users will love it."
"ok i know i'm beating a deadhorse thats already buried but i have been considering this for a while and am now making an official post.the main problems with black ops fleets and roams is limited range, fuel, and resupply. so i'm suggesting that we solve this problem by making a new class of ship, the covert commandship aka the hadesbasically it is a tech 2 orca, most of the stats will stay the same but i would change a few things.-reduce the size of the ore hold and convert to a fuel bay, this fuel bay can be accessed by black ops ships and they can choose to use this fuel bay for bridging rather than there own fuel bays. fuel bay holds 25,000 cubic meters.-increase resists to ore ship t2 resists-add a black ops jump drive with a 6 ly base range, and the ability to interface with black ops ships to increase there jump/bridging range.-corp hanger and ship bay should stay the same. but the regular cargo hold is halved to 15,000 cubic meters.-drone bay is increase to 1000 cubic meters-roles will change: - can interface with black ops battleships to increase jump range and use of fuel bay for jump/bridging - 100% increase to drone range - 99% reduction in cpu need for gang link modulescan use 3 gang link modules simultaneously.- ship bonuses will be: - industrial command ship skill bonus: - 5% bonus to cargo capacity per level - 3% bonus to effectiveness of information warfare gang links per level - covert command ship skill bonus: - multiplies the cloaked velocity by 125% per level - can interface with 1 black ops battleship per level, to a maximum of 5skills should be industrial commandship 4 and black ops to 4i chose level 4 skills instead of 5 because of the high amount of skill points already needed to fly both ships seperately, if both need to be trained it is an extremely skill intensive ship.the basic idea is to give the black ops fleets the ability to actually achieve deep range independance with limited resupply, the hades manages all the support roles that are done by transports and acts as a fleet booster as well as jump range augmenter.my point is, if ccp won't modify the black ops ships themselves, give use a ship that will make them actually viable in what they were originally meant to do. deep operation and semi independant missions.thanks for you consideration, and let me know what you think.gerrick palivorn"
"taking this whole ninja miner thing to a whole new level are ya?"
"ninja mining is easy enough as it is with the rorqual.next time make sure you read past the third paragraph before posting. thanks for your opinion and of course supporting my own thread."
"aren't the t3 cruisers capable of delivering the fleet bonuses with one of the subsystems and can fit the cov ops subsys at the same time?a viator can hold 11.192m3 (with 3x gsc it's 13.892m3).all you're left with unsolved now is the 'limited' jumprange of your bops.."
"tres you have a point, and i have used t3's as command ships before to great effect, as well as using transports, but modifying ships and heavy ammo usage deep into red territory require something with a little more staying power by way of this ships basic design. when a bomber gets popped (cause they do all the time) this is a viable way of quickly replacing the ship as well.i used the orca as a base cause it achieves everything i want to see in the black ops sector in one ship."
"ok, now i see where you want to go with this..do you really think ore would come up with a design like that?any pirate lp shop that could use some attention (bpc)?the addition of this vehicle will cause cov ops operations to last longer and to be harder. with the additional range they will also reach deeper into 'enemy' territory.are you sure you thought of those kind of implications?"
"it is called tech 3 cruiser. except it cannot blackops bridge but hey it has that bubble nullifier so... doesn't seem like offering many new options."
"never happen with what you have posted, way to over powered"
"great post aiden, i heartily agree. the last thing eve needs is to be made easier. i wish csm would spend their time on a more worthwhile proposal, like a way to eliminate afk missioning (sleeper ai in high sec anyone?).honestly, though, i wouldn't be too worried about it. ccp has a great handle on their vision for the game. it's fairly obvious that if they didn't intend this use of the orca from the beginning (i would argue they did), that they at least don't have a problem with it. i don't think ccp is going to let any csm proposal ruin their game, no matter how popular or unpopular it is."
"by the op's logic, you should be able to get killrights on stations too, where people dock to switch ships.working as intended. not supported. -1"
"concord protecting the alts i use in highsec fighting is clearly reasonable.by some magic of logic that doesn't make sense, if i had to protect alts i use to fight people that would somehow make the game 'easier' and thus is unacceptable. i propose that concord protecting the alts which i use to kill you is definitely 'harder' and totally agrees with the hardcore spirit of the game. i further propose that rr alts with normal aggro mechanics just aren't hardcore enough and i demand my alts be able to supply the equivalent to rr support without receiving any aggro at all.aggro for what amounts to rr is just way too softcore, i even further propose that all aggro be removed from all support actions in the game. can't shoot my rr? get your own noob. my alts are eccm/tracking/sensor boosting me and you can't shoot them? should have brought your own of course. balance.see what i did there? softcore nub scrubs. -_-"
"the problem is that drones are too easy to snipe from a distance. it's the same thing in big fleet combat, but would be even more so if it were an entire fleet of players going up against one player who could somehow take that many hits and survive.it makes no sense that a tiny, moving ship is easy to hit just because it hasn't broke max transversal velocity. being small and distant should allow it to avoid most shots with less transversal velocity; both for game balance and for realism."
"how you all feel if all the npc ships had one resistance value lets say 60% or top ship class value and hps and over all they do 100hp dmg to a battle ship at 78% resistance.this will allow you to use any battle ship for engaging npcs and get you more accustomed to pvp damage dealingthey will have to reduce the numbers of npcs on missions to adjust the difficulty"
"yes, yes! i actually did a similar proposal, and someone pointed me to this one. i'd like to flesh it out a little.i propose an upgrade to the ui. i'm not proposing that all rats do omni-damage as sleepers do. the very fact that people afk-mission is proof that this change is needed. afk-mining is one thing. but you should not be able to launch drones and go afk in a combat situation (mission). i do not think missions need more payout in order to \"balance\" this change. the rats in eve have horrible ai. the situation is out of balance now (with too much advantage being given to the players currently). enhancing the ai will redress the balance. just because you've been getting off easy in your missions all these years doesn't mean ccp should give you yet another payout when they finally fix the ai.missions should be challenging. this is eve, not wow. if you can faceroll through your missions something is wrong. if you can afk in your missions, something is wrong.as for the effects on drones, you can still use them. you just have to use them more intelligently. i see no problem with that.missions as they are are boring. i enjoyed missions for the first week or so, and then it got old fast. if they were an actual challenge, it would help."
"and by reading the entire thread before you posted this you noticed they're already doing this...right?"
"there seems to be a big misconception here in this thread thinking that the ai change would also mean that the npcs would suddenly become like the sleepers. it depends on how ccp handles the new loadouts for the npcs. ai =/= ship loadout. for all we know the npcs will be exactly the same but will start targeting drones alot more. resistances on the npcs will most likely not change nor will their damage types. i like many others will probably run each mission again in an overly tanked ship just to see what happens and how the new ai works."
"changing ai is not enough. missions/belt rats? would also need loot balancing and npc modules like ewar and guns have needed fixing for ages now. npc ecm and webs for example are sort of op. not to mention rats shooting torps up to 100km or so."
"we can use a new device to protect the capacitor from getting drained from this energy neutralizer in to sum extend"
"yup i think a module like that would have some merit tho i think it should be like eccm in therms of strength so make it reduce neut 'damage' by 90% no idea what slot it should take however"
"its called a cap booster - to be honest don't you think thrre are enough cap mods/ cap battery, cap echarge, cap booster. . .ssly"
"actually, this makes a lot of sense. having something to limit the effects that a neut has on the capacitor by a certain percentage seems quite fair, particularly if there's nobody trying to neut you, you experience only slight benefits (similar to eccm to a degree). this would give active tanks a nice little boost without being overpowered.win-win"
"if this is the case, that it reduces the effect per cycle but does not prevent the actual cap-out .. then yes, good idea.unfortunately i fear the op is suggesting the capacitor reservoir again which will let smaller ships run in circles around larger with impunity .. that is bad."
"the neut equivalent of eccm.. yeah, i guess."
"eh tu nosferatu?"
"support for reduced affect per cycle rigs and the idea in general for neut resistance. cap injection is just a cap repper and can't replace a cap hardener.if we are going for a module too, i would rather see multipurpose modules like t3/faction hardeners(not necessarily an active module), that give moderate damage hardening with some neuting protection, than a module that only does 1 thing and nothing else. maybe a scrip for some type of hardeners to be partly anti-neut with reduced normal resists? low slot might be the best place for the module, since cap injectors are already in med slots. this way to achieve a good neut tank you would have to sacrifice med slots, low slots and rigs. it would also allow amarr ships to have some neut protection and still have viable combat fits."
"you want to fight empire navy? that's what it means to dec war on them."
"you don't need a wardec to blow up macro missioners or miners.you just need to face your own fear of negative security status and a few lost ships (which are, incidentally, fully insurable)."
"no because if they did then people will start war dec single people just so that they can kill them. eve would pretty much be turned into a pirate fest."
"i predict this will happen."
"as if fighting for the good cause and against bots (scripted ai) will be the main attraction of this.. ever seen pirates running missions? no?neither do i."
"we have reinforced their pos twice now, both time they quit their alliance after it was put into rf to avoid the war dec csm please inform the gm's as they appear to be too busy fingering themselves to deal with this exploit propperly."
"forget to find the petition button?"
"seems not just the gms 'fingering themselfes' (according to op)."
"this issue is something that you will need to submit a petition for. if you have a petition already in the queue check to see if it's in the appropriate category. if it's not in the correct category update it so that it is. it's possible for a petition to take longer than expected if it goes to the incorrect department."
"pretty straightforward proposal here. in a game like eve, the fact that many people afk-mission is a sign that something is wrong. i have no problem with people afk-mining (as long as they're willing to live with the consequences), but i draw the line at combat missions. the ai in high sec is a joke, evidenced by the fact that you can release drones and go watch a movie. this could be solved by giving all npc's in eve the ai of the sleepers. if ccp wanted to enhance the sleeper ai further in some way in order to make sleepers still more challenging than your average rate, i wouldn't have a problem with that. missioning would be a lot more fun if it were actually somewhat of a challenge."
"[proposal] give all mission rats sleeper aiwas on the next page..."
"awesome, thanks. great minds think alike. i'll post in that thread."
"tl;dr version: i propose ship insurance be a feature you lose after the first 60 days of playing eve.slightly longer version: much like losing rookie channel after 30 days, i propose noobs get a period of 60 days in which they can insure their ships. after that, it's over, and you'll never be able to insure your ships, ever again (for non rookie ships, with expensive rigs and mods, insurance isn't worth it anyway). that way, the noob is protected from accidental loss, and the professional suicide ganker can no longer have concord pick up the tab for his dastardly deeds. clean and simple.suicide gankers could still get around it, recycling accounts -- but that's against the eula."
"not supported but i do think the clone isk rate needs to be adjusted"
"older players tend to fit more expensively and fly more expensive hulls, there is no rational reason for forcing them to pay the price of a fitted cruiser (base clone, before implants!) or more in the event they get podded.it is such an insanely obvious isk sink.ps: stop with the ludicrous wow references, especially when it is not even relevant.should not be removed or made universal as op wants but a downwards adjustment is in its place."
"well this is pretty simple, please let us disable all popup warnings from the settings menu. all the really is needed is to add tick boxes next to each warning type where we can select to reset the settings today.this way we don't have to redo all the actions just to clear the annoying popups when we move to a new computer. i mean i know lowsec is dangerous, i don't need to be told about it yet again.also while we are at it, please let us supress the concord warning as well from that menu. people doing suicides in highsec don't need to be reminded every single time that they are very bad people."
"and a select all tick box.+1"
"there should be an option to disable these pop-ups before you even log in with a new account or new character.better still allow you to turn them all off by having an option in the \"reset settings\" tab.if you have a main character should the default messages and options really apply to the other two accounts considering you are technically not new to the game? if you've already turned them off on one character wouldn't it be an idea to have them off by default for that entire account rather than per character?\"would you like to switch it all off before i annoy you with it bit by bit?\" yes / nobut yes, totally agree."
"hi all. i was looking through he forums and i saw how some items aren't seeded in bpo. i was doing a search for an item in bpo form and i never found one. i would like to see t1 micro smart bomb bpos and the ability to make t2 versions of them.if you would like to see this happen give a thumbs up and a yes"
"i to would like to see t1 micro smartbomb bpo seeded and the ability to invent t2 bpc."
"there was a discussion on that topic some time ago if memory serves. my main gripe with this skill is that while the transports do have their rightful place in eve i don't see any point in training the skill past level 1 for any of the available ships.only the deep space transports benefit from getting that skill up and then only through the increase of either the shields or armor by 5% per level. this falls a bit into the line of that ship's job, although it won't jusify the time spend to train the skill. the second bonus is a total waste and kind of baffles me: 5% per level to armor repair / shield boost respectively cycle time...on ships with enough capacitor to run a mwd less than 3 minutes (br) and 6 minutes (dst)...and that's running no other cap using module.the bonus is also useless in regards that it won't save any dst once locked - it takes ages to align and is either destroyed or has it's cap dried by the time it could warp and the br...really doesn't need that bonus because if it gets locked it's a goner no matter what.maybe one or more of this could make training that skill beyond level 1 more worthwhile:blockade runner:- 10% increase in warp speed per level- another 5% increase in cargo capacity per leveldst:- 5% increase to armor / shield resists (in place of the boost / rep bonus)- 5% bonus to agility per level- another 5% more cargo capacity per level (make it something more than a tanked iteron)just some thoughts on some very nice ships. they are more or less ok as they are but i'd like to have a better reason to spend more than 45 minutes in training transport ships."
"i dont know if i missed something... but after viewing the videos of lexhiram and the new character creation system ("
"for anybody who's played with planetary interaction, the timers don't make much sense. some may like the current setup (with 30 mins, 5 hrs, 23 hrs, 96 hrs), but i think it could be a lot better.my recommendation is to keep the yields per time slot the same, but to change the time intervals as follows:* 2 hours (enough time to run a mission or two or do other things)* 10 hours (enough time to sleep or go to work while it works in the background)* 24 hours (a full day if you're not able to be at your computer for some reason)* 120 hours (a five-day work week or enough time for a relatively short vacation)if you have any constructive criticism or better intervals for the time periods, feel free to post them below. this is just one aspect of the many things about pi which could stand to be improved."
"ccp is already changing the timers so you can input your own timer and see how that effects your yield. if i recall correctly you can set a timer anywhere between 1 and 140 hours.it's on singularity right now and is gonna be on tq in jan."
"hadn't heard about that, but if that's the case, then nevermind about the proposal. that works a lot better :)"
"we could just remove insurance altogether?"
"i hear a lot of people propose removing insurance, but i don't think it's going to happen. too many of us, myself included, like insurance. it adds another level of strategy into the game."
"there is nothing strategic about insuring your pvp ships and not insuring your mission ships...you could probably say its a matter of strategy if you want to insure your carrier or not, but then again insurable caps is a mistake in the first place that should be corrected."
"insurable caps wouldn't be so bad if the plan were changed like i proposed. insuring caps is just like insuring smaller ships, but to a greater degree. when you lose it, you get a percentage of your money back. people who lose ships on purpose to deal damage to others should have to pay more for insurance. people who only lose ships on the rare occasion that someone takes advantage of them should have to pay less for insurance, so they could afford to protect themselves by insuring all their ships."
"while we are at it can we remove alt posting on assembly hall? its getting ******ed in here.while your idea has merit reaver, any insurance system should not be biased toward pvpers or pvers. it should view both as equals. omara and mara..... well nough said.insurance removal would be great but isnt gonna happen, ccp would have removed it instead of tweaking it when they did."
"proposal for new mission class the blackops all agents all levels you can unlock them when you reach 9.0 with your agent you need to be trust worthy to have the privilege to be offered black ops missionmy suggestion is to be send to unknown space to aid someone in distress from npcs that are as resilient as the sleepers, and them sum times, for a level 4 agent the strengths like c4 wh sleepers,challenging yes but i missed my beginners days playing eve manly missions that you do at your own risk let the ccp mission designer challenge us"
"i think we need to train people how to take out a supercap. maybe they'll stop whining about nerfing them."
"that's a great idea, please post instructions in warfare & tactics forumit'd be nice if the instructions didn't contain \"get 100 friends or 12 of your own supercarriers\""
"12 supercaps to take out 1 supercap? i'm ashamed to play with people who are so short-sighted.i'm sorry if it involves grouping with a few people. you just can't expect to solo one, even if you're in one. because the other supercap won't be alone."
"do we want that? do we want bs to be unattainable? capitals never reachable and supers not even a dream. titans right now cost 1000's if you gtc the value. if the value of gtc's dropped titans would be infinitely more expensive.well sc's have the most hurf derf of any ship in the game. specially one who has destroyable dps, which could essentially be destroyed by a small number of ships that are nearly untargettable by a ship that size.hypothetically speaking 1 interdictor and 5 assault frigs could make a supercarrier useless, now with their dps it would take a while to kill it. but it would be defenseless, to the point where you clip the fbs and 2 dreads could siege with no fear of retribution beyond ogre 2's, or sentry 2's. there is the problem of them logging off but with the bug of not disappearing there is some hesitation in logging out and staying in space.people hurf durf about the super caps, all day but the majority havent thought about it logically and even fewer of the hurfers have ever flown them. i personally have a wyvern, and know the strengths and weaknesses of it. one of the biggest weaknesses being ships with small sigs because it takes a millenia to lock them. and if you make a sc pull their fb's back at range then bomb the fbs they will all explode at once because of their mwd's."
"what if the battle ships also can use small weapons for example 4 large turrets at 100%dmg and 2 small at 100% dmg"
"the drake eats the apoc's armor faster than the apoc can break down the passive shield."
"i'm not really convinced this theory will survive contact with reality, as for about half of the drakes shield buffer recharge isnt really a factor at all.unless we are talking purger drake specifically tanked against em/therm that is."
"you could also move your hulk into drone mining range, and increase your yield significantly."
"i think that making the procurer a drone based mining barge would be better. remove the strip miner bonus and it's ability to fit them and replace it with a bonus to mining drone yield and give it a bigger drone bay and bandwidth, make the yield better than mining cruisers (osprey, etc) but worse than the retriever.it'll make both mining drones and procurers useful."
"i always figured they should make retrievers require mining barges iv, and procurers should have 2 high slots with too little cpu to fit 2 strip miners. then you fit 1 strip and one regular mining laser.also, i always figured exhumers ought to have more powergrid, and strip miners ought to require more. then you could make the procurer short powergrid instead of cpu. and i don't think allowing a barge or exhumer to fit some tank is going to make them overpowered, especially considering you have to remove a strip miner to do it. and besides, it's not like they have a lot of slots to play with anyway."
"except miner i's, ii's and deep core miners require turret hardpoints which barges don't have."
"that's like.. expensive.."
"sorry about that, apparently it was set to private. try it now.and thanks for the support. i can understand people feeling the current cargoholds aren't a problem, sure i can get by with that much too. but increasing it a bit would just be good for convenience. it wouldn't even begin to degrade the value of ships with large cargoholds; like industrials, mining barges, marauders, or the noctis. those all have much larger cargoholds, and yet they still manage to fill up pretty easily."
"current cargo bays are too large for most combat ships. the largest mission cargo i've had to pick up was 375m3, for \"downing the slavers (1 of 2)\".reduce cargo bays to smaller than this on all combat vessels, give them sufficient ammo bays to store ammunition and cap booster charges for a couple of short engagements. folks running \"downing the slavers (1 of 2)\" will just have to make multiple trips to pick up the prisoners (or wait until the noctis arrives to pick up everything).my drake goes through about 2000 heavy missiles in one mission, but it doesn't use cap boosters. for a drake running one mission at a time, a 60m3 ammo bay is sufficient. i use about the same quantity of antimatter l for the dominix: this is about the same volume of ammunition, but the dominix might also want to use a few 800 cap charges. being able to hold 10 of these would require an extra 320m3 in the ammo bay.i don't use cap boosters that much, preferring to use a cap recharger and smc combination on most of my ships (why are large capacitor batteries so small) that need cap life. i'm therefore not in a position to comment about the utility of 10 cap booster 800 charges (that's my dominix's cap filled up three times over, with cap to spare).what i would like to be able to do is run multiple missions at once - say three in a row. this would require an ammo bay of about 180m3, plus space for cap charges. do other battlecruiser users rely on cap charges? are the four in the booster and another two in the hold going to be enough cap booster 800 charges for three missions?and why do t1 astrometrics frigates have such huge cargobays? is that purely to allow them to use moon survey scanners?"
"i think you meant to not support my idea, but you gave it a thumbs up.i would say some battlecruisers probably use capacitor boosters, especially any that armor tank. they can fit almost as much buffer as a battleship, without the capacitor to repair it with active modules.also, it seems kind of silly to only be able to carry enough ammo for the mission. what about mission loot? and what about alternate ammo? part of why my drake's cargo is always more than half full of missiles is because i like to fit all 4 damage types. often i switch during the mission, but even more often i pick different types for different missions. i'd just like to not have to reload so often. i don't see how that is in any way unreasonable.and as for mission loot: i find the average level 3 mission yields around 150-400m3 of stuff, while the average level 4 yields perhaps 250-750m3, though i have not run enough level 4s to confirm that (nor have i been willing to make multiple trips just to gather all the loot).my question to you, mara rinn, is this: why should we decrease the current cargoholds? even if a ship is capable of holding days or weeks worth of ammunition, is that really a bad thing? is it going to make a ship overpowered to have a bit more room?and i'm asking all of you who disagree with my plan or think it would be a bad change: what's so bad about having some cargo space on a ship? i'm more than willing to admit i don't know everything, and i might be missing something here. so please, just tell me what is the big problem with my idea.if we discuss this, we can reach a more intelligent solution together. perhaps it is possible to fix stuff up in such a way as to maintain balance while still making the cargoholds a bit comfier."
"i've always wanted to visit iceland."
"i agree. make it unsafe and the traders will move to other systems and might spread the trade around the galaxy not limiting it to a single system"
"wouldn't surprise me if sansha had it on their hit list to be honest, would take a lot of people by surprise..."
"i hear the sansha fraggles don't like fleet lag any more than players. can't see them touching jita for that reason (and it's in the script)."
"my idea it is a good idea, isn't it"
"i've always wanted to visit iceland."
"the best idea ive heard in here is use what they are and thats fleet logistics.give them bonuses to gang links and ability to fit more than one would be great.if they then introduced a covert bc capable of using the bridge it would make sence."
"they really should use cov ops cloak."
"please fix black ops.must: improve jump rangeshould: revamp fuel consumptioncan: allow every ship with jump harmonics 2 to use the covert ops cloaking device. (specifically, the black ops)can: allow every ship with jump harmonics 2 to use the covert cynosural field generator (implies: adding another high slot for all blockade runners)"
"except the prowler, which already has 2 highs, but would probably appreciate an extra low slot for gtfo/cargo tradeoffness."
"50% resist boost while in siege can give a dread approximately 4-10 mil ehp based on the current setups and some unique ones. i'm assuming that people would do some wacked out fits that could get them as high as 20 mil ehp.with that amount of ehp, and b/c it only affects dreads in siege, i'd say that would provide huge problems to both motherships and titans being spammed left and right. dreads would once again be the work horses of the capitals.dreads would still be vunerable to neuts, non siege operations, and not high enough ehp to logoffski too badly. logging off capitals is more a problem with log off mechanics than capitals anyways.it would still not fix supers, but would certainly put more scare into them when 5 motherships see 20 dreads somewhere. i'm sure someone will whine about pos guns at that point, but honestly, if you lose capitals to pos guns, it's ******ed fc work, not the capitals that are the problem currently.[revelation, new setup 1]armor em hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iiarmor kinetic hardener iiarmor explosive hardener iiregenerative plating iidark blood energized adaptive nano membranedark blood energized adaptive nano membranedamage control ii[empty med slot][empty med slot][empty med slot][empty med slot][empty high slot][empty high slot][empty high slot][empty high slot]large trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump ithat fit would get 7mil ehp with resist bonus... a faction pimp dread with titan might get up to 20. but it would sacrifice dps and any active tank to do so."
"this is the most rediculas idea i have ever read.super caps are under powered not over powered. a super cap fleet is a mix of anti bs blob and anti cap. your sugestions take this away. and would make them useless against bs."
"look at this obvious troll here"
"0/10"
"any idea when and if ccp will 'look' at supercaps"
"18 months."
"going from the csm summit notes, they are already discussing them.the more pertinent question is when they'll do anything to them."
"+1 for optional bloodline change.if not for incursion mk. iii, then at least for incarna.some people decided on their bloodline based on looks, others based on starting skills. both systems have now changed, and we're getting full body avatars.people dese"
"supported. you cannot make a vherokior character look the same in the new creator. it's impossible. i chose my bloodline for aesthetics, and now that aesthetic has been pulled out from under me.need bloodline changes."
"supporting with my second account."
"i support this"
"as vherokior, i can only agree."
"supported"
"the duel boxing ratting carriers you've tackled and nueted out, have initiated self destruct. you're overheating your guns, racing the clock, out come two dozen-odd repair drones.i don't see a reason to penalize people for having the balls to undock and do stuff solo in an expensive ship.besides your about to cause the guy around a billion in damages. forge a killmail if its so important to get one."
"to me, this is why drones are not tee's (nice term by the way).if you send your drones off to rep someone (or jam, or web, or whatever) and you get jammed, they continue to do what they were told. not a single tee module can do that. none.this, in my opinion, sets drones apart from tee modules and into a new category. can't be bothered to come up with a name for that category though..."
"yeah okayyou didn't explicitly mention balance, but yes, it was there. then somebody mentioned that they're not actually the same thing (which is true), and that was when things got dodgy.you never argued balance. you argued categorization. you never said \"it would be overpowered\", you never pointed out that there would be gameplay consequences. all you did was get into fights about tees and other rambling irrelevancies.here's what should have happened.somebody calls you on the whole \"drones aren't actually reps\" thing, to which you realize, hey, that's actually true, but it doesn't matter anyway. you then raise the question of if the inability for a drone to rep the host is intentional or incidental. after that, you start discussing the balance issues of rep drones. maybe you look up the actual influence drones have. maybe you ask yourself if logistic drones are in wide use, or if their ability to rep the host would be game breaking. maybe if you're really good, you bring up a situation where a ship is given an obscene advantage, or you point out clear imbalances. maybe i point out that a drone being unable to rep the host ship doesn't really make sense; to which you respond that, yes, that's true, but \"logic\" still takes a backseat to balance.maybe then you consider clauses; perhaps this behavior could be permitted, but it would need some kind of balancing aspect. maybe the power of the rep needs to be lowered, or maybe it doesn't on the grounds that drones don't make particularly good remote reppers anyway. maybe you consider the role of a general purpose healing device, and if such a thing would necessarily be game breaking. maybe you change your opinion. maybe you don't. maybe you change somebody else's opinion. maybe you don't. maybe you learn something. maybe somebody else learns something.what you have been doing is screaming incoherently about things that do not matter. nobody gives a damn if drones are tees or rces or snms or tsses or whatever the hell. classifying a drone as an effect isn't just a broken conclusion, it's also a completely aimless and unnecessary line of thought. i don't care about fitting drones into a neat little design slot, i care about enjoyable gameplay. ccp likely makes no distinction between tees and whatever the hell. they just design things with various general intents. sometimes, things get changed. sometimes, things are designed without too much deep thought. not everything was designed with a perfectly balanced spreadsheet in mind. not everybody is that ocd. drones are designed to be drones, reps are designed to be reps. what we have here is a situation where multiple established things with their own rules meet and create some unforseen circumstances. now it's our job to consider how to deal with these circumstances.so can we have a discussion about balance yet, or do you just want to sit there and continue whining about how nobody wants to deal with your arbitrary categorization bull****?"
"supportoh and lol at the guy quoting physics...yet has never read the show info tab on a drone.for not targeting they have sig res's, damage types, ecm/eccm resistances and strenghts and are more then capable off attacking out of lock.sure they don't have \"specificity\" and they are very erratic about if...but that is why you are supposed to be controlling the drones.p.s its not a free slot for a drone bay, compare gallente ships with pretty much every other race drone v no-drone bay andsee how many more slots they have."
"supported.at first i was little unsure because as some people pointed out, it could make certain armor tanking ships too strong; however, what people forget is that drones can be destroyed. if your opponent's tank is very solid, just pop the drones."
"this thread seems to be thick with trolling, interesting. the other guy brought up quantum mechanics, i just pointed out that not only was he applying it in correctly, it was irrelevant to the discussion. and as for the lie that i haven't read the info tab on a drone, okay. despite the fact that, ya know, i was just talking about what's on it. and yet more trolling, now by lying and inventing fake quotes. who, you, troll?naaaaaaaaaaaaaw.also fictional. i pointed out to you, several times, the use, schema, cooperative/solo differences, etc... i asked you to identify what you thought they were, and you just dodged most of the questions. we've been over this."
"uber supported!"
"might want to tick the 'check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on' box under the post-input-window then.."
"while it could be argued that drones are small robotic ships, for all purposes and intent they are actually guns: you release them, as an extension of your own ship, for the purpose of shooting someone, with the intent of killing/repping them. even in auto-aggro mode, they are still under your control, as you set their 'auto-aggro' state.all of this is largely academic, though; when it comes to the game, the only question that really matters is whether or not self-repping drones shift the game balance. i think it stands to reason that drone-favored races and ships, like gallente, would see a boost as the result of this. and other ships, like t3, with no viable drone bay, would be faced with entirely unbalanced tanks. so i doubt it's really a good idea."
"not really, you forget the gal ships that are geared towards drone dps, they could tank better, but it would come at a cost.you could apply the same logic to defender missiles. they use up high slots but add to tank vs missiles.... actually has anyone considered changing defender missiles to protect allies?"
"you keep using that word. i don't think it means what you think it means.so, are we going to talk about balance or not? seriously, just say \"no\" and i can leave this thread.also:sorry, i can't hear you over the massive hypocrisy."
"drones aren't targeted external effects, they're objects.and they're still different from remote rep modules, ordering them to repair you is still different from using a remote repair module on yourself.please implement this change ccp."
"and i keep pointing out where you're trolling. much like you argued both that i never did and i actually did talk about balance, that i pointed out right above this.and predictably you're trying to change the subject. just like now. an utter lack of understanding on your part, dranzer, is not hypocrisy on mine. you evidently admit that you were trolling and you did make up a fake quote and put it in a quote box, as if it was something i'd said in any of my posts. quote boxes are, guess what, boxes designed to quote what's actually in the thread. i created a picture to show the intellectual dishonesty your position is based on and to point out your lack of reasoning. to do this, i created a rather obvious satirical quote.if you don't understand that a faked quote in a newspaper article is a bit different than an onion article or a joke that john stewart makes in a cutesy voice, well... let's just say that it's not exactly hypocritical and it's somewhat silly to believe that it is. as for whether or not you're going to discuss anything, i guess that depends on if and when you stop trolling. as ipointed out, for example, i've been asking you to discuss balance for days now and you steadfastly refused and pretended that you didn't see my questions. and then when you specifically requested that i repost questions (due to them being ever so spread out) that i'd reposted in a block something like half a dozen posts before your request, you still ignored half of them. just like you trolled on and on about how, i'd have had a valid position if only i'd pointed out that using remote reppers on yourself is a violation of game mechanics just like using remote rep drones. and when it turned out that my very first post in the thread did exactly that, you quickly backpedaled and all of a sudden that still didn't mean (according to you) that my position was valid. stop trolling and i'm sure we can talk just fine."
"okay, let me get this straight.when you intentionally misquote me, you're being clever and satirical.when i intentionally misquote you, i'm a lying troll.i'm leaving the thread now. i advise you to take a few laxatives."
"no. i never misquoted you. i provided an obvious satirical quote that anybody whose neurons are on speaking terms would realize was not to be taken seriously. correct on both points. of course, your habit of lying about lots of things doesn't depend just on this bit (see, for example, your fiction that i ever claimed that guns are drones). an obvious joke is not the same as using the function that is used for providing direct quotes directly from a thread. that's what you mean when you put something into quote tags as opposed to making a joke out of it, that's it's a quote. and of course, as predicted, when caught trolling you switch the subject. just like your trolling about how i'd have a valid position if i'd compared remote rep mechanics from the start, and when it turned out that i had, you changed the subject. or when you trolled and tried to take me to task both for not ever providing a discussion on mechanics and for providing a discussion on mechanics (but disagreeing with you). or when you trolled and lied by claiming that i'd argued drones are guns after you actually argued that drones are ships, and then retracted that as erroneous before playing word-games and putting it forward against as your argument. or when you claimed that questions on balance, gameplay and mechanics and your experience/understanding/knowledge thereof was an \"ad hominem\" and you wouldn't answer it because you were oh-so-offended (and not because you had no idea what the answers were), and that you wouldn't respond to any of my arguments anymore. and then you responded to my arguments for something like a dozen posts, and denied that the reason you'd claimed you wouldn't respond wasn' because of any imaginary ad hominem, but because you couldn't answer. and then you claimed that you weren't sure which questions i was asking, even though i'd just reposted them, in a block, just a few posts above where you were asking for them. and then when they were reposted, again, you just accidentally managed not to answer the questions about balance, slot layout, solo/group play, etc... as for you not commenting ever again on my claims (again), if you say so.again, if you stop trolling i'll be happy to talk about whatever you'd like."
"probing has changed since then, hasn't it? now any noob with a few hours spare can train up the required skill levels to fit a core probe launcher to their mining ship or hauler and hunt down hisec grav sites.corp operations will no doubt have a dedicated prober, who can be hunting down grav sites for the corp in addition to the usual exploration goodies.i would be especially keen to see procedurally generated grav sites rather than the same layout of green haze, coral rock structure and a dozen kernite asteroids."
"i am generally in favor of iteration of mining, both to make it more interesting for players and to make it more difficult for bots. while it is entirely unclear what the best approach is, some of the ideas in this thread are very interesting and worthy of consideration -- in particular those that permit active (as opposed to afk) players to achieve superior results.that said, as always there is the issue of resource allocation -- ccp has limited developer resources and everyone wants their pet project to get done. but mining ought to get a higher priority than at present.towards that aim, perhaps the best way to proceed is, instead of proposing particular fixes (except as examples), start collecting a list of problems that a mining iteration could address, and benefits for doing that iteration.apart from the obvious benefits (anti-bot, more fun, etc), consider how a mining revamp might affect noob retention. since this directly affects ccp's bottom line, a good argument along these lines will carry weight."
"mining as an activity is seriously mindless. many folks like it that way (especially the botters, obviously). but is it more mindless than missioning? even in an l4 mission, you have a scripted set of responses to a scripted set of actions, it is only slightly more interactive because you have to change targets (and i hear bots can do missions, so that isn't a fix).the volume of minerals should decrease as system security status increases - and the rocks should be farther apart. that means 1.0 and 0.9 systems are really for new players to get started, and a mining cruiser moves more effectively than a barge, so also tailored for smaller volume of minerals. once you get to 0.7 you have more traditional volumes of minerals, and perhaps clusters, so it makes sense for 1-2 barges to work together. only in 0.5/0.6 systems would the asteroids be clustered and in such volume that having a large group of miners is practical. of course in losec the clusters would be larger, and the quality/availability of minerals should increase as well. with the redistribution, it becomes important to keep mining a viable activity, and now realistically possible in losec.i like the ideas about moving away from belts and to scannable sites.i also like the idea that barges could have on-board scanners that only detect grav sites in 10 seconds or so.finally, i think that the mineral scanner should be a required tool to find the type of asteroids once in a belt. also, asteroids could have multiple mineral types within them, which have to be chosen when using the survey scanners. so on the overview you see merely asteroid objects (which you could just target and mine, resulting in veldspar only), while with the survey scanner you see different minerals in the same asteroid, and you can choose to mine each one, regardless of it's quantity. so a scan in a 0.7 system on an asteroid results in something like this: asteroid - veldspar 60 | dense veldspar 30 | concentrated veldspar 10. then you can select which ore you want to mine from any given asteroid, and rather than deplete the whole asteroid you can just mine out sections. (yes, this bit is far from perfect, but hey, ideas on how to make it more interactive...)i don't think barges should be excluded from 0.9 and 1.0 systems (can you imagine not being able to buy and move a hulk in jita????), but if the rocks are so small and so spread out that it's a lot of work just to fill the 3,000m3 hold of a retriever, they won't be used there except for new players who just got them.mining lasers should not shut off when an asteroid is depleted, and the rock should not disappear. they should simply cycle repeatedly, and some sort of notice each cycle end that no minerals were extracted. this prevents complete afk/bot nature to some extent, since you need to pay attention to your game a little.and now i'm rambling, so i'm done..."
"as much as i'd love to do this, there really aren't any problems with mining. it's a perfectly functioning system, it's just boring."
"short letter to people who \"care\", to people who are \"affected by bots\", to people, whom game was \"ruined by bots\":guys and gals. while you hunt, mine and pvp, bots work. while you sleep, they work. they generate minerals and isk.now think - every time you lose a ship, you have to buy a new one. or produce with minerals.will you dedicate few days of your life on process called \"mine-produce-assemble me-self a new drake\"? no you won't.you will buy it on the market for 30mil (or how much is it now), which equals 3 or 4 missions with the same drake in highsec. you will buy it. and you won't even think that 70% of everything is produced by bots, from bots' minerals and bpc's. you just don't want to believe in this. some of you played eve since 2003, some since yesterday. and most of you never thought of bots until you saw this post.and now you moan on a really difficult problem (for ccp to track bots), thinking that you were affected. it's like moaning your car dealer that you have to fuel your car./me unsupports this"
"then maybe you should play on sisi only where everything is 100isk"
"supported."
"yup"
"fof missiles, due to their chaotic targeting methodology, should pack considerably more punch than a standard targeted missile (50-100% more). they should also have a prioritization script built in: ships > drones > sentry structures > ect.they should be capable of engaging targets to the full range of their flight (currently they're limited to 85km - or were, it's been a while).they should automatically switch targets when the current object ceases to exist, so long as they have fuel.fof's are essentially a 'spray and pray' weapon of limited or last resort due to the fact that you're not likely to hit the same target more than a couple of times if there's more than one on the field. in their current incarnation they simply lack the punch to be any sort of use."
"when i want to do invention, manfacturing or research, right clicking on any of those item on a blueprint, it will ask me to pick an installation. am i the only one that thinks that the game's inability to remember what was my choice last time i picked the range or location is stupid?the pick installation window has 4 drop down menu; activity, location, range, and type. everytime i change type (whether it'll be public, personal, corporation or alliance), it remembers what i selected for the next time but it doesn't for location and range? the option for those menu isn't unique for everyone or every corporation, so it makes no sense.i'm proposing that this be changed so that everytime i change my choices for those 4 values, it should remember it next time."
"i'm sure ccp has this on some backlog for an industry makeover and it had been proposed over and over here.. there is so much bad in that area that i wouldn't even know where to start.probably 90% of it was called out in that papercut thread akita made in gd some time ago.."
"after some discussion over on the features and ideas forum here and getting some excellent feedback, i've decided to post my proposal for the thumbs:we all use the market, from the inventor buying components and datacores for the week's manufacturing run, to the pveer buying a new nighthawk after losing his current one to pirates, to the 0.0 logistics officer fielding the \"can you buy me this ship with this fitting?\" questions from a dozen alliancemembers.what we need for all of these people is a market basket.tl;dr version: a basket would, at its simplest, be a list of items purchased simultaneously from the market. it would probably also have a cooler name. you create that list from any of a number of sources (import ship fittings, manually-create a named basket, pull in a basket from a link in chat, etc). once you've done that, the interface looks at your current station (or solar system or region, depending on your preferences), finds those items, and provides you an invoice with:- the current lowest price in your given range for each item and the total basket- the total volume of a single copy of that basket- how many of that basket you can buy given the current preferences, items, and isk you have in your walletyou can choose how many of that particular basket to buy, and click a 'buy' button, at which point a plastic-wrapped courier-contract-esque package is delivered to each station from which you bought items, ready to move around.revisions since posting in features:a. checkbox on the final buy screen to remove items that are overpriced/otherwise undesirableb. this would be a list of specific items, not general categories of items, exactly like a purchasable version of the current ship fitting sharing function.c. suggestion to call this a \"materiel requisition order\"d. lag and potential market oversimplification issues?potential uses:1. buy a ship fitting:any given ship fitting contains somewhere between 25 and 30 discrete items, each of which must be searched for and bought through the market interface or manually browsed for. creating a basket from that fitting would allow you to buy it all at once, in, say, jita, and have a big 'some assembly required' box dropped in your hangar. your logistics officer can save a basket and buy an arbitrary number of that basket to be delivered as a standard corp/alliance fit to be moved out by jump freighter. a mission runner can save his (t2 and below) nighthawk fit, and buy one easily to replace it (or for a second sister ship in a remote location).2. buy repeat orders:anybody who does manufacturing with some market-produced goods knows how much work it requires to maintain a spreadsheet and go to jita (or your other friendly neighborhood trade hub) and buy each of those materials individually. those same manufacturers could create a basket of the required materials, and buy that same basket each time they needed the materials again at the end of a production cycle.3. price check complex items easily:again with the spreadsheets, updating the price on a production chain for, say, tech 3 ships or complex pi products is a bit of a nightmare. instead, you could add the materials for a given part of the production cycle, and easily use that to pricecheck the final item without manually checking each of its component parts."
"love the idea!"
"fully supported, this specifically has been something i've wanted since i first started playing."
"nice."
"oh man.. just the title made me chuckle! definitely want!"
"the next logical step. i like."
"as a trader i approve of the idea because it will give lazy buyers one more reason to pay for the convenience of getting things easily instead of putting effort into getting the items cheaper.i like this very much, but to make it really useful, you have to have some configurable logic behind it:- chose between buy or sell prices with volume threshold (a single unit of cheap trit is meaningless if you need millions)- consider the available volumes (when going by sell prices) or the volume traded (when going by buy prices)- configurable distance the buyer (you) is willing to travel to pick stuff up (also needs to consider system sec rating)- and some more...without those features (i.e. the tool only considers sell prices in current station) it would be a worst case material basket acquisition price checker. better than nothing and equivalent to what one can do with evehq..."
"definitely approve."
"yes. i'd also like to be able to sell multiple items at the same time."
"yes"
"this idea is great naturally.but it won't happen.the main issue is the fact that every item you buy... potentially every unit... does not come from the same \"seller/buyer\"the server would be forced to cache or queue up your requests... add jita to that equation and its a holy nightmare.but that doesn't mean i don't like the idea.so i'll be hoping ccp can come up with something... provided you can tear them away from spacebook or spacesecond life long enough to do it."
"great idea el. supported."
"yep, stumbled over that recently."
"excellent idea is excellent"
"diameter for a standard grid is around 700kmthey are unprobeable because of a gamemechanic.. there was also a gamemechanic that allowed us safespots 1,000au from stars or to fit several mwds onto one ship.unprobeable ships are needed at the moment, because any half-capable prober can get a 100% warpable destination on your probeable ship within 30 seconds of him entering the system.personally i think the whole intel/d-scan/local/probing-system needs serious tweaks/reworks and i'm fully aware that this will break some eggs."
"yup"
"ok so lets modify it thensize: reduction preferable but not neccessaryehp increase: 30% down from original 50% (which would put them at around 700-800 on their best)speed: 20-30% speed increase (as original request)fittings: highslots reduced to 6 mid and low increased by 1 each (same as original)drone: a 10-15 cubic meter increase to drone space and bandwidth(addition based on suggestions)turrents: (caldari version increase launcher slot by 1 or 2)adjustments transfer over to t2 variants as wellhow are we with those adjustments?"
"yeah, some of those changes would be really welcome, wrath! dessies should have a more important role in battle, and those changes would really help!"
"i agree in light of the noctis the destroyers need an overhaul i agree with size and mass reduction far to easy to big a target at present however i think the high slots need to stay the same as the noctis requires bc quantities of minerals to build the price is not likely to drop below about 25 mill they need to retain the cheap salvager role but six weapons and 2 utility slots would work and a tank boost would be great although perhaps not as much as in op don't want them encroaching on cruiser or t2 frig territory.more mids for coercer would be greatmore drones for catylstmore missiles for cormorant would also like another low for cormorant - with only one it's fail as as salvager"
"excellents"
"i support this product and/or service."
"can't believe i played this long without a coward implant set!do want!!!"
"supported"
"originally it was stated that their intention was to have the avatars react in a procedural manner to your actions and your \"status\".not sure if the idea remains the same but it was explained that the station environment would group people together based on their standings/corp and that they'd automatically gather and make chatty animations, which you could then adjust with your \"status/mood\" dropdown.totally awesome right? lol"
"which is more interesting.a)1) 0.0 resident needs probes.2) has to go to empire for them.3) they're big, a logistcal hassle, something to get done, to overcome.b)1) build another 100 off the crappy bpo.pi removed much of the 0.0 empire pos fuel logistics chain. removed links between empire and 0.0.do we really want to remove every last thing that links 0.0 to empire?this dynamic has been a major part of how the game has worked since day one."
"if ccp ever manages to carve out new uses for those probes, hell yeah why not.. until then, no need."
"why would the client be updated with someone entering your node if your not on grid / near a stargate except to add your details to local?supported."
"i'd be happy if they just removed local in jita, permanently. it needs to be done on tranquility though, not singularity."
"this sounds better than the op's idea."
"this is one of the more ******ed ideas i have heard in recent times... can you imagine the mess you would make of ppls kill rights section during hulkageddon ? if you really want to make suiciders lives a little harder without screwing everyone who doesn't care two turds about it, perhaps the ganker could be flashy to the victims corp fort 24 hrs or smth, altho i feel losing sec status and one's ship is already enough"
"i don't like this idea. i don't want every ganker to show up in my character sheet."
"yes!good idea, the gankers should pay for their crimes.having it permanent would be too harsh however.how about, after they kill someone, anyone is allowed to attack them anywhere for up to 15 minutes. to make it super-harsh, let concord & empire factions shoot them too.that would make it fair /supported...wait"
"suicide ganking is a true criminal offense because it interferes with a paid subscribers right to play the game as they want to. the reason why there is different levels of security in space is to allow for different styles of play. those players who do not like pvp can stay in highsec and play the game that they want to play. pvp players can go play their game in lowsec and nullsec. (or they can exploit the fail wardec system to pvp in highsec). any subscriber should have the right to play the game in the style they choose, unless that interferes with another subscribers play. as mentioned, there are many many avenues for any pvper to play his/her game. but the pve player has a right to be safe in highsec because that is what it is for. it is there to provide a a safehaven to allow for pve play style. without it, you might as well have all nullsec, and get rid of concord all together. suicide gankers are not really punished at all, except for security standings. you try to say they lose a ship, but not really, because insurance pays back for the ship. the loss is minimal. security standing only takes a little grinding on rats to get back. if you want to take away the safety of highsec to allow for suicide gank, then your safety from concord should also be denied. however, the killrights dont have to be posted in character sheet, just make the ganker flashy red to everyone. concord will still only act according to security standings. but the act of suicide ganking makes you flashy red to anyone and everyone."
"gankers are people too."
"support kill rights on gankers for the whole victim corp, and for a 24 hour or longer period, regardless of ship loses.the sec loss system obviously doesn't work to deter it, and right now its a 100% safe form to create income with no defense or risk to the ganker. this should change and the current system does nothing to address this.no insurance for concorded ships needs to be implemented as well."
"someone need this so much...please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i thought there was a targeting delay for any non-covert ops cloak?the current mechanic is based on luck.you jumped into a system and have 30 seconds.you hit the warp to xy or just align somewhere you think might be good. server collects that 'order' and executes it in the next server tick (1 per second).next update your client gets from the server tells it to draw your ship to start to move and all others that it's on the grid.if you got no lag and are fast you now click on the cloak module and your client tries to tell the server that you want to be invisible from now on. according to load the server executes this order in the next possible tick and sends your client the information that your ship is cloaking now (along with anyone else on the grid, who just don't get positional info about you any more).as soon as your client gets this information he toggles the cloak button 'active'.. if this takes 3 seconds because of lag/bad i-net you think you didn't hit cloak and try to activate it (again), but instead you just send another 'clicked the cloak module button' (= deactivate) to the server.also this lag from getting the info about your ship moving until you can hit the cloak button is the timeframe others can see you one the grid.my experience is:2 second visible on the grid = perfect3+ seconds visible on the grid = fortuna didn't like you todaywhen all has been said and done you will easily see that the gate-cloak upon jumping into a system is just to avoid spawn-point-camping. it's the same deal with no-touchy of undocking ships.'artificial' choke-points because the game designers/programmers couldn't solve several other problems eve faces and probably never will."
"they are hard to catch, but most definitely possible. just when he decloaks hit mwd and approach and hope to hit him when he cloaks."
"removing jump bridgesjump bridges have made moving around 0.0 way too easy, its to easy for huge blobs to move around 0.0 with little to no effort, allowing sov holders to hold large amounts of space without their space ever being in real danger. why should it be possible for alliances to be able to move half away across 0.0 space to attack another region and also be back in time to defend there own space if needed with very little effort needed?the removal of jump bridges would allow smaller alliances the chance to attack bigger alliances without the fear of that alliance bringing all its friends from over 30 jumps away to the fight so easily. this would help create smaller conflicts through out 0.0 and stop bigger alliances holding space that no one even uses, just through the ability to move to that space so easily through jump bridges.changing sovsov today is such a painful grind that without a huge blob or masses of super caps it just isnt worth the effort, having to shooting so many different structures with so much hp is just so boring and off putting, and near impossible to accomplish for any small entity or new alliance. also with so many different reinforced timers alliances dont even have to defend their space until a 3rd timer, meaning people are left just waiting around hoping that at some point a fight might be had but instead the defending alliance has had enough time to alert all of their friends within 50 jumps and then blobs out the system leaving little chance of the attacker being able to take the system.so i propose instead, introdue one new pos structure, a sov holding pos with betwen 5-10m hitpoints, only one of these can be placed in a system and once anchored gives the alliance who owns it sov of that system and the right to take any outpost in the system. now to contest the system and attacking alliance shoots the sov pos and puts it into reinforced, but instead of having a long reinforce timer it can only be in reinforced for between 1-24 hours, this still allows the defender to dictate what timezone the pos comes out in but also means that they have to defend their space and not just sit around for 3 days then bring every guy and his dog to defend it. once the pos structure is destroyed it can be replaced by the attacking alliances own sov pos and they will then gain sov and be able to take the station.probingwhen i first started playing eve probing was considered a skill, an art form some would say, being able to probe out or get spots on hostiles, the perfect warp in spot, but today its just drop probes, few moments later warp in and done. todays probing involves little skill and has completely destroyed one type of pvp in this game, long range sniping. who would be crazy enough to bring 200km fleet snipers to battles anymore when it only takes 10secs to have a warp in on top of you, pvp in eve is being restricted to mid range combat with high ehp ships such as the drake and abaddon because long range gangs are at such a disadvantage due to todays probing mechanics.i believe that probing should be a real skill not just something any idiot with a probe launcher and a few trained skills can achieve so easily, making probing harder would bring back and open up so many new options for pvp such as the long range sniper battleship, it would no longer be just close range blob vs close range blob, so many more tactics would be available to fcs and give us a different dimention to todays pvp."
"on jb's:they do make life a little to comfortable for space holders, but removing them entirely will not do much except cause a wave of rage-quits.change the way sovereignty works instead to make it beneficial to have a small compact empire:ex #1: for every neighbouring system not in control the maximum sov level of system is reduced by 1.ex #2: increase costs based on constellations. first is as is, second 2-3x the price, 3rd .. to a point where only the most industrious and well managed alliances can hold an entire region.on sov:and the result is 75% of all sovereignty pos being in a state of constant reinforced mode because even \"small\" gangs can knock them down .. the actual conquering part should be the realm of the blob, not the roam.make it so that roams can influence the various indices and sov levels temporarily. forces locals to either vacate or fight/patrol .. if they blob you take out stuff in other systems.on probes:it is pretty annoying, especially when an opponent has probes in place ahead of time .. but for random violencing of ships the current probes are pretty well balanced.solution could be make probes unable to see \"newcomers\" in their spheres, so for every sniper warp-in a new set has to be launched and positioned.won't give you oodles of time, but should give you a minute or more before a scan completes (launching probes takes forever!).alternately a deviation could be added when there are large-mass static objects in the scan range such as stations and gates .. it might get lucky and land on top of you but chances are it'll miss by 100km .."
"i agree removing jump bridges would cause a lot of noise and upset many, but they make life way to easy, gone are the days where smaller entities could cut of supply routes and be a annoyance to larger alliances and they also make 0.0 accessable to nearly everyone. now i know ccp want to encourage people to move to 0.0 but at the minute there are just so many people who live in 0.0 who arent ready for it, but the reward is so high vs the risk and this is due to being able to navigate 0.0 so easily via jump bridges.as for sov i agree a roaming gang shouldnt be able to reinforce the pos so easily, but a decent sized fleet should. any alliance that holds 0.0 sov should be able to defend their own space against a fleet that comes to attack them, currently that isnt the case, too many current sov holders hide behind reinforce times and huge numbers, sov warfare needs to be more dynamic.i like your suggestion on probing, its just so irratating now that sniping has gone from being a very valid and greatly used tactic to being nearly dead and forgotten due to modern probing system which makes it way to easy."
"i know for my self, and possibly a lot of other players that we have assets in space that we no longer have access too, due to language barriers, standings, and the fact that no one wants to accept a courier contract. so i would like to propose an idea of a a system that will contract items out of 0.0 space to the closest npc station or give fair market value for the items. thank-youraw dog"
"one of the risks of 0.0 is the possibility that your stuff may get trapped if you don't take sensible precautions. magic teleporters to compensate for your carelessness works against this. so no.(also if your stuff is trapped in deklein feel free to firesale it to me)"
"though as a side effect you could possible create a new \"extraction \" contract type where your cargo is sealed in unbreakable contaners similar to courier contracts but any one can pick them up , and move them to the required destination, unlike normal courier contacts there is a minimum isk amount based on the items and its pretty high . however much of the clients stuff you move to the designsted station gives you that % of the money for the contractthis way the price will allways be right for the mover and you have a chance to get your stuff back,"
"stupid and overly complicatedcurrent contract system solves this issue just fine"
"no feedback?"
"i would like a 3d view of the ship to appear where the thumbnail is,. not just some predefined animation either, an actual view of the ship as you shoot it. don't forget to /support your own topic!"
"what: reverse the gatefire animation when it's an arrival from another system.why: currently, when a gate activates it always shows a ball of energy originating at the gate, then charging up and firing off into the distance...this is fine if someone activates the gate and is leaving system, but lame if they are coming from another system into you. how hard would it be for ccp to to just reverse the animation so the beam of light came from the distance and landed at the gate for inbound traffic? not a big deal, but has always bugged me."
"could be the gate needs to push anything back into the other direction that was there, where you appear in the destination system (photons, atoms, gas, etc.)?you now to keep balance? /supported"
"i like. maybe that new effects artist will work on those to.p.s. i follow tres farmer around the forums. we both have boring jobs. tf you need to make i want small icons your sig."
"the current folders for drones are a very mixed bag as far as usability. this should definitely be looked at as a way to remedy the pain of drone use. supported."
"as cap shield pilot, supported of course!"
"i spotted this in a s&m thread and thought it was the best solution so far to blobs.proposal - introduce a module with the following stats.mass effect shockwave cannonfitting:high slot1pg1cpucycle time: 2seffect: inflicts 50^(x-20) em damage to target ship and all ships within a 50km radius, where x is the number of ships within the 50km radius. damage is doubled if the opposing target is a member of it, tripled if a member of the northern coalition, and quadrupled if the target is a member of pandemic legion."
"long range jumping is practically essential now for 99% of nullsec supply logistics. removing cynos and subsequently jumpdrives would drastically change not only how capitals move through space but also how people move subcap ships through space (as carrier loading/jf loading is by far the safest method of moving ships and modules to a staging ground). for better or worse this would inevitably neuter access to deep nullsec as much larger resources would have to be invested in keeping the logistical channels protected. pros: more capital ships to shoot,more **** in general to shoot as people will be forced to float down lowsec pipes for supplies (only good if you live in lowsec doing naughty things),completely changes the game with nullsec, suddenly supply logistics becomes alot more important - probably see much more growth in subcap industry in null (as well as mining and all that silly stuff).cons:all of the above,removes all the utility from caps, effectively becoming really expensive ships that can't go into highsec; would have to be redesigned incorporating a massive bullseye (all of this would require a material cost reevaluation to rebalance things),jump freighters would have to be removed from the game(as what's the point?),alliance power shifts would be far more static and would heavily favour the defending alliance (leading to even more nullsec atrophication than we have now).this is probably a troll, but whatever. i don't really see how this would be an improvement, but rather an annoying sidestep that opens up a plethora of new problems. the growth in capital ship usage is a natural side effect of higher average sp within eve and isn't that much of a big deal."
"no. it would ruin alot of things in this game. while adding nothing"
"i prefer my idea of opening cyno access to everyone."
"this troll is back?"
"well well, lookie who's ban expired."
"c'mon guys, make the drag arrows on probes when scanning bright yellow or something, at the moment i'm straining to see them on certain backgrounds.just a simple fix that would go a long way."
"supporting my proposal of course"
"sounds like a great idea, maybe ccp would be more interested in doing this than they are in removing the shadows in the map view."
"short and simple , have a chat with the pi forman whos job it is to route goods to send them to processors that are not on a cycle vs sending all you can to one processor and leaveing others waiting. ie if my extractors are cappible of producing 30000 units and i have 10 processors i want them to all gets goods going vs. 5 going with there reservs full and 5 doing squat."
"route all your items to a launchpad or storage facility, then to the processors. problem solved. the tutorial will help you with this, on ccp's channel on youtube."
"i allready do this, in fact i have been using 2 starports for storage for this very reasion. the problem is that if i produce ( as an example) 30000 units every half hour , and i have 10 processors more often than not the frist 5 fill up both there needed to function pool and then there reserve pool leaving the others empty. untill we have this chat with the forman my only \"fix\" was to produce 1.5 times the hourly materail requirment of raw materails hence needing a secondary space port to hold p0 materails to prevent waste"
"i have lost at least 500 kill mails over the years to the kill mail system not tracking damage properly. today again we blew up a pos with 40 modules and i didn't get on any mods, this bug has been around for years. the trick that sometimes works is to make sure your damage is on the hull of the target object as it loses it's armor it some times works most times for me it does not. i assumed that once a mod goes into hull that the servers pay more attention to it, and why it helps to make sure you have you have damage on the hull, drones damage also seems to go unnoticed on the kill mails. if you are having a hard time reproducing this bug let's setup a test server session so we can get it fixed.it such a simple thing to fix to make sure everyone who shoots at something gets credit for it, people work to hard to get kill mails and risk their ships to do this work in the game, they should get the basic reward of being recognized on the kill mail.thank you,-q"
"having a month left till my next remap, the reset of the remap timer means i get less remaps than someone when they get to my char's age, who started at a different time of year. this translates directly into a potentially huge skillpoint advantage to a random cross-section of players.if the remap given with the learning skills was seperate from the timer, everyone would get the same boon, it would be fair. as it is this is a huge injustice."
"seriously?what is with these people and there bloody crying for remaps."
"it's when some people get remaps and others don't, it's unbalanced... what if we both train the same plan, but because you were started a few months later than me you got better sp overall?now why are you moaning? does it offend you so much that lots of players feel cheated? i'd say you're the whinier of the two of us matey. go look for something unwarranted to cry about... or at least try give a counter argument.i started a new topic cos nobody seems to suggest seperating the timer from the gift, which seems absolutley sensible to me. i'm not asking for more than anyone else, just that we all get the same."
"there is no reason to start a new topic on this when i posted a proposal not three days ago, asking for exactly what you want, which you posted in but chose not to support."
"lots of people protesting?2? 3?that's lots of people?"
"my mistake for assuming people that could write, could also read...the obvious distinction is as follows. your proposal is asking to reset the timer after each person that didn't get a new remap uses their current one... a logistical nightmare for the devs... which also fails to address the same mistake happening again with any future remaps gifts.it doesn't even clarify the flaw properly... my grievance isn't that some people got remaps and other's didn't...it's that we all get a different duration between our last and next remap.i assert that they should change the way these remaps are supplied. to distinguish between a remap gift and remap timer reset. to reiterate, i'm asking the devs not to screw with the timer, it gives or takes advantage from us based on our char's birthdays. if they feel the need to give a remap, then give us all the same damn remap."
"why would you buy an old clone when you could buy a fresh one?"
"this is a terrible idea. see all of the previous explanations of how it wouldn't really benefit the market and would further chip away at time spent doing things that reap profits and move the game forward. it's good that you're thinking about how to make the game better, but this would not do that for even a minority of players.let's think about it from the perspective that eve should be as realistic as possible, that it should be a simulation of real life. there are about 730 hours in a month. if you play eve for 5 hours per day (~150 per month), then all things being equal your in-game life would be occurring 4.8 times faster than reality to even out. that means, if ccp is doing their job right, things should be about five times less time-intensive in eve to work out to a true-to-life timescale. if things should be five times less complex than real life just to even out the time commitment, is it really worth modelling such minute details as ship maintenance?there is already a repair shop in the game, and it does a great job of making things a few times easier than reality while leaving some element of cost and realism.not supported."
"yeah and as soon as you undock in a ship you can't sell later when you don't need it any more. there is a reason why somethings aren't in this game. besides a few thousand ships a day meet their doom so the market isn't going to go stale any time soon."
"would kill a large part of the market system - no.(being able to repackage a ship or module and stick it up on the market would no longer work and contracts are no good substitute for the market interface)"
"lets enable the ability to remotely talk to locator agents and locate characters. eve is a game of pew pew. having to goto a locator agent hampers this. that way those of us in channel \"locates are us\" can better assist pvpers."
"all these nice ideas like this need to go in the thousand papercuts thread in general discusion. it should be a couple pages back."
"i think you couldnt be more off the mark here.i fly mainly hacs and recons, so you could say it would in my best interest to support this topic for my personal benefit.i dont, since you are barking up the wrong tree, insurance is the issue, not rigs. rigs the way they are now worked in favor of cruisers more than anything else.also, the way i fit the battlecruisers i fly once in a blue moon, i could easily put large rigs on them right now if the hulls did allow it, wouldnt impact the overall price even 5%.edit: still, the riggings on capitals could be re-evaluated. thats pretty much the only thing wrong here, capitals and supers fitting 'cheap' battleship sized rigs."
"omara otawan, i tried to look up your stats on battleclinic and i only see 5 lifetime losses. i'm assuming you are posting with an alt. can you respond with your main?as far as bc cost effectiveness goes, it's now up to others to decide. no need to keep repeating same points over and over"
"i sure could, but that would kinda defeat the purpose of posting on my forum alt in the first place i guess.would not change facts anyway though."
"well ofcourse posting with a recognizable main would give you more credibility.i hardly think large rigs are cheap, t2 large rigs are incredibly expensive."
"what is your purpose for posting with a forum alt? we are trying to have a serious discussion here, about things that have no influence on your corp/alliance politics.so far your main point has been that bc prices should stay low - that is a matter of opinion, not fact. the fact part comes in when we consider if there's anything out of balance with battlecruisers or not.i'm assuming you believe there's nothing wrong with current situation of battlecruisers, cruisers, and battleships. whether that's true or not can be determined by taking several important factors that can be measured, measure them, compare data, derive a conclusion.the factors to consider for this case are: costs of fitting the 3 hull types. average tanking ability, average damage dealing ability, average speed and agility. those can all be grouped together as performance indicator, which in turn should be compared against the cost.while i don't provide specific numbers, i believe the differences are significant enough to be identified by an experienced eve pilot. i wanted to see your main character killboard stats to get an idea of how experience you are, whether you have potential to understand the points without looking at hard numbers.i really don't want to go thru the work of making charts, that's ccp's job. if they got people who know what they are doing, all that's needed is to get their attention to the basic ideas, then they can do the fact checking for themselves."
"thats the thing, large t1 rigs are considered expensive on battleships only. on capitals they are cheap.i'd even go as far as saying t2 larges are ridiculously cheap for supercaps, there is a reason t1 rigged supercaps are considered failfits.example:mega = 75mill, 3 large trimarks = 45mill (rigs are 60% of hull price)harbinger = 28mill, 3 medium trimarks = 15mill (rigs are 54% of hull price)----thanatos = 700mill, 3 large ccc = 33mill (rigs are 4% of hull price)nyx = 13bill(?), 3 large t2 trimarks = 2,2bill (rigs are 16% of hull price)battleship and battlecruiser rig prices seem pretty much in line there, on the capitals not so much. (you could argue rigs on cruisers are too expensive taking progression into account)"
"whether something is expensive or cheap is a value relative to average wallet size, not ship size.if you seriously believe in what you said there, and not just trolling, then you can't be reasoned with, and all your past and future arguments lose credibility.i just logged in to jita and price checked.large trimark = 17.5 mil, 52.5 for 3medium trimark = 3.5 mil, 10.5 for 3just as i said earlier, 1/5 the price. the imbalance is that the net hp gained is only slightly greater for battleship than on bc. the ratio of 'bs hp gained' over 'bc hp gained' is about 1.3 and approaches to 1.1 as both ships fit 1600mm plate."
"so, if my wallet is stuffed it would be cheap to put fed navy webs on a rifter?no it would not, it would still be hilariously expensive, just it would not hurt my wallet much.now, putting navy eanms on my archon is reasonable, not because of a loaded wallet, but because the cost is dwarfed by the cost of the hull and the other fittings i have to put on there.if its cheap or expensive to put something on a ship is directly tied to the hull and fitting price. that hull itself is about 1/3rd of the price, as well as fittings being more expensive on the bs level as well.there is no difference in gains, it is percentage based. a harbinger gains exactly the same percentage in (armor) ehp as a geddon does if you triple trimark both. (also, hp is the wrong way to look at it, you want ehp since slot counts differ. battlecruisers typically do not fit dual plates for example.)it seems you want to make an argument about bs vs bc attributes rather than respective pricing tbh."
"why not just lower the insurance payout on tier-2 battlecruisers?"
"pls explain how you would determine which character is somebody's \"main\"..."
"same rules as caod, and obvious alt posts can then be reported and locked. also you could set it with the default character setting in the my character option. caod rules are you must be in a non npc corp with more than 12 members.in addition make it show corp alliance tickers aswell"
"the next three posts are actually my other mains on different accounts. lol.see how easy that rule was to circumvent?"
"yea and as long as they are all in non npc corps with 12+ members then there would be no concern.it does remove a fair portion of alt posting. there is no reason to post with alts unless theres fear of how the proposal will be recieved or make you look. or if your trolling people."
"real men post with their mains, if people feel the need to post with their alts let them."
"not just alt posts, plenty of sensible people too.and it won't stop you posting, so it's definitely not going to help clean up the forums."
"you know personal attacks arent nice. why would i need to stop posting, im one of the few non carebear, non cap hating people that post on this forum on my main and speak my mind. unlike some of us."
"you know personal attacks arent nice. why would i need to stop posting, im one of the few non carebear, non cap hating people that post on this forum on my main and speak my mind. unlike some of us."
"wing commander / freespace style comms chatter would be nice."
"1.0"
"page 3 save, more support is required, would like to get at least 5000 supports in the next 4 or 5 years. or ccp could go ahead and do this already?"
"signed"
"i'm not sure a prowler with three high slots is such a bad idea adding a low slot to the prowler would change a different balance (within blockade runners - the ability to carry more than 10,000 m^3).i any case, that is really minor compared with improving jump distance (or squashing the universe )"
"bumping myselve with a quote"
"bump this up indeed!i like the cloaked velocity actually, and they don't really need a covert cloak imo, but...they could use a jump/bridge range increase (just a small one)they desperately need more ehp/resists. equal to t1+5% (shield/armor/hull) hp and standard t2 resists would be good.more power/cpu - equal to their t1 version + 5-10% or so, to bring it in line with other t2 ships.extra turret/missile hardpoints for panther12.5 or 15% drone damage per level (instead of 10%) for sin.as is, these ships are paper-thin and can't output any respectable dps. they cost 800 million isk, have high skill requirements to fly, and are completely suck. i want to love them so bad - i love stealthy ships. making these ships into the natural progression from cov ops --> recon --> black ops would be nice. as is, they are in a class by themselves and aren't very useful."
"please!"
"yes. a size option at the very least!"
"hell yeh!"
"i am in favor of a super cap eph nerf (this includes titans). i think the eph buff they got was a bit to much. cutting the eph in half for them sounds about right though.edit:this is also with a dread buff cutting seige mod cycle and fule cost in half, and make seiged mode=more dps with but cant move. this means dreads only disadvantage of seiged mode is cant move for 5 minutes, and with allowing them to get rr boosts their tank so supers (bar titan dd) dont slaughter them."
"supported"
"so far as i understand (i have not actually tried the character generator yet) the new char creator is like the old one in that a specific set of looks (hairstyles, tattoos, etc) are allowed based on bloodlines and race. while changing race would certainly be off given the nature of skills, i think the option to change blood-lines is much more reasonable.the people who wish to have more options available don't want a racial change, but they do want all of the options of their race available again as the new creator is similar for some bloodlines and drastically different for others. i agree that it would be unfair if the creator dealt me a specific set of looks that aren't remotely what i liked about my character's bloodline in the original creator.detractors of this fail to see that the two creators are very different in many ways. yes, you need to try it out and see all the options available. however, i imagine there won't be isolated cases of people crying foul that they are being forced (which is the right word) into using a specific set of looks based on a decision made however long ago for an entirely different creator engine.the option to change your bloodline in order to access all of the features of your race is reasonable and sound. they no longer directly affect game-play mechanics. by giving this option, rp's can choose their old settings and maintain their game-play while more aesthetically driven characters can get their choice as well.i don't support full racial change. train a new character in that case, the game never has and hopefully never will have a racial change option. this keeps the races defined and more valuable as an identifying feature of a player."
"+1 (but...)there are valid reasons to permit such an option, not the least of which is where (rp) a character's history crosses racial lines. i am the daughter of two matari parants, but i have two half-sisters who aren't. (mum got around a bit - once wit"
"i had a gallente toon, the first day i started playing eve. you know, one of those characters with deep hollow, ogre-like eyes. :p then i saw a caldari achura, and immediately recycled the old one, as the achura were sooo pretty! :)so, long story short, yes please, let us choose bloodlines! the more we can choose from, the better!"
"thumbs up for a blaster buff (and a railbuff too)"
"bump."
"i have always thought eve needed better missile effects!"
"even a satirical quote is an intentional misquote."
"i too remember being baffled that you couldn't repair yourself with your own drones."
"first of all, i was not misusing it.second, let me tell you that bringing up details about random irrelevant experiment withing the field of quantum mechanics does not prove that drones are tee. it's obvious you don'tdrone is not an effect of any kind in the first place. it is capable of projecting an effect. period. as i have stated previously, drone is a remotely controlled ship. not an effect. and how does that demonstrate that i should not be able to order my drones to heal me anyway? i have learn that your words are empty sound. you lost any credit yo still had. i will not further reply to your pitiful attempts at rebuttal. if you would like to prove otherwise, get o sisi with friend. ow, wait, you won't do that because that will prove me right. got it. you may not bother replying any more, i will not read it anyway.and why aren't you trying to rebut to my arguments? thought you where desperate to prove that drones don't have targeting systems. i though you wanted to dispute my point that remote repair systems are physically mounted on the drone. i thought you wanted to prove that the repair systems are local to both the drones and the ship simultaneously. i thought you wanted to prove that drones-bays are tee's. i thought you wanted to prove that tee is a commonly accepted classification, and not a product of your imagination. i thought you wanted to dispute the existence of assist command. i thought you wanted to prove that you calling drones tee is somehow relevant to the topic of this thread. so, to summ up:1 you keep attempting to persuade us that your self-invented classification of drones as tee is correct, yet you failed to produce a single convincing argument.2 it has been stated and proven that drones can target and engage things without mother-ship ever obtaining a target lock.3 it has been stated and proven that nobody apart from you agrees or uses your classification of drones as tee's, rendering that classification worthless. 4 it has been stated and proven that drones are remotely controlled shipsdue to you being exceptionally boring to debate against, i will no longer read your replies. they are inventive. to everybody else, please don't fed the troll any more. i made a mistake. ignore it and it will leave."
"the reasion this is disabled is because it would allow you to make a tank that is much more powerfull than normal withought the aid of a logisitical ship. i would support this idea but only if self repair suffered some penalty to make it less effective when the drones are turned on your own ship."
"1.0"
"originally posted in features and ideas it has been suggested that this should be in this forum so i am reposting. here is the original post and a link to the origional threadi like several of the new ship designs and as a fully paid up member of eve i would like to join in and vote.but...i am not and never will be a member of facebook. i object to being forced to use a third party site dedicated to data mining customers to sell advertising to vote on your competition. i strongly urge you to make your own in-house voting system so your paying customers can use it without having to use some random third-party site many of us have a deep objection to.anyone else who thinks we should be able to vote without joining facebook please sign here. even if this doesn't effect this vote it might effect subsequent competitions."
"agreed, understand the reasoning of ccp using facebook...ccp using facebook is not the problem itself, using facebook exclusively is the problem, what about us people who do not use social networking sites such as this, are we not allowed to vote? do we not count?"
"/signed"
"agreed.... i find it offensive being forced to use some other service that ccp could just as easily do themselves as far as voting is concerned.after all... wth is the point of developing space book if your not going to use it?(intentionally smartassed and trolling to make a point)"
"i could not agree more. this is far more disturbing than real id, as well as the objections raised by the op. this was poorly done by ccp and is no service to the subscribers.in point of fact this is so outrageous that the csm should be able to pick it up without even waiting for the outcome of a vote of support in assembly hall. its that obvious. further, ccp themselves should be scrambling to correct this matter without waiting. the reasons for placing the voting on facebook exclusively are very disturbing. ccp is being cheap, lazy and short sighted. they could have put the voting through their own spacebook instead of a site many of us avoid like the plague. eve's spacebook could use the support.best regards,windjammerp.s. op, your link is giving a 404 error message."
"if the account based voting is good enough for electing csm members, surely it is good enough for helping ccp make up their minds as to what ship model to adopt.failbook is is number two on my list of evil things in the world, right below politicians. insecure (multiple hacks of their main servers the past two years alone), non-existent privacy rules, money-grubbing and ultimately useless.fixed link to f&i thread"
"bad, bad ccp!"
"sigh. i normally get those things right.wasn't paying attention when i made it.now fixed.not thats its hugely important but fixed anyway.and thanks for the heads up i wouldn't have noticed otherwise."
"you can create a fake facebook account, jeeznobody is going to datamine you"
"i could, but i choose not to. i dont want a facebook account, fake or otherwise. i pay ccp. i play eve. i do not expect ccp to require me to sign up with an organization, facebook, that is remarkably unethical in order to participate in an aspect of eve.-windjammer"
"supported."
"one could also speed through a town, jump off a cliff or try to live on tofu .. doesn't mean it is wise or even legal.ps: false personal data is against failbook eula."
"this idea is pure win.unfortunately it'd probally cause a dramatic increase of load on market nodes and ccp is probally too lazy to code up something this conveinent."
"that would be great!could be tied into the news system as the \"news\" page often contains write ups of big in game events.some further idea's are in making these worth going to. maybe a big battle site should generate wrecks slowly over time(lore wise they just where not found or where to dangerous to retrieve) nothing good would be in the loot and it would in no way be for income but would be great for newbies or to have little lore pieces of stuff in the wreck. such as personal artifacts or other items.would love to warp into a system and see a few beacons telling the history of a system.\"oh wow this place has seen a lot of big fights!!\"or wow this is where jita mcheck started her rise to power..or what ever else.also some sites without becone would be nice...and abandoned blood raiders base with a strange plee for help being broadcast on short range radio...or a lost industrial ship you can choose to blow up or point in the right direction.maybe some none warp cabable ships..oh noes my warp drive is dead can we come aboard type deals(or blow em up).would just make the world feel so much more alive, full and vibrant."
"more pve content? perhaps an update to cosmos stuff?definitely add this to the list of things that ccp should do but won't.can i interest you in a blue shirt for your avatar for $2?"
"i't would be nice if we could have our avatars move (maby not everyone because of lag) but our own, atleast at the login screen might have been posted allready but saw a video and just had to post it:"
"i don't have anything against it and it would make sense to try and fully utilize the animation system they have developed, since it does look good and the plan is to only use it in the character selection. if there are ever plans to utilize it in-game, it should come with an option to stop the animations and/or only show them on your own avatar."
"if its optional, sure"
"bit smaller sig. 60ish.toss the rof penalty then 6 turrets, or 4 with a damage buff.2 more mids/lows. they have 1 less slot than frigs now. should have 1 more.check to see if they need more buffer at this point. the extra slots may show its not needed.partial nerf as well.. sig res/tracking speed nerf, as a complement to that range they get. don't want them to replace frigs entirely."
"well the other option is to always get rid of my local intell tool. i just startle myself..playing along doing what ever and quickly scan for new nuetrals and omg!!! there is a new on..oh wait it's me.also be nice to be able to sort by standings so all of a certain standing showed up at the top."
"ok, this fail thread has gone on long enough. it is nothing but full blown trolling and spam. consider it reported.marlona sky, you shouldn't have come back."
"oh noes someone wants to have a little crown next to their name when they speak in localman, emo tj just keeps getting more and more butthurt.of course, emo tj is probably marlona's attention seeking alt, but hey...sometimes the benefit of the doubt is necessary.also, i approve of these implants. i myself have a nice pair of implants that you can take a look at any day of the week. looking is free. touching'll cost you."
"theoryto make moon mining slightly less passiveto quote the tories increase social mobilityto create pvp in a location other than gates or stationsidearemember recently, nasa hurled a probe at some insane speed into the moon, well the idea i have is something similar, a covops (or special ship?) warps onto grid with a pos, he decloaks briefly and fires a special probe into the moon, then at a random time, small asteriods (but actually part of the moon) appear on grid of the moon.these asteroids will have been thrown up from the detonation of the probe on the moons surface, and they will contain anything from 100-500 of the mineral that is contained within that moon. the probe shooters will have an indeterminate time to fly to the moon fragment whilst it is on the same grid as the pos, decloak and try and collect it. (right click scoop)rationaleinstead of the billions of almost untended poss in lowsec/0.0 that 'can' generate their owners billions in wealth a month for very very little work, this could mean that smaller groups could get a small piece of the action. small raiding ops to get as much promethium (or other mineral) from a moon could then be organised, or whatever mineral is required. additiononly 1 probe could be fired at any given moon per hour, this would negate 50 probes shot at the same time and giving loads of the given moon goo. when a moon is illegally harvested, the owners will be sent a mail and might sent some small ships to defend their moon and possibly sparking what i hope would be a small engagement (or a gank if said moon is heavily defended)i cannot off the top of my head remember that amount that a pos can pull of a moon, (16.5k), but that would be the limit per week as well. so say a moon was successfully illegally harvested, then its owners would come to check their silo and see a corresponding amount has been deducted from their silo.conclusioni believe it would add another dynamic to the game and the draw of rare and usually unobtainable materials that smaller/more nooby corps dream of would entice them to lowsec/0.0.it might encourage pvp and would definitely encourage the pos owners to give their towers more than a cursory glance each day.disclaimer: i am not part of any power block and am not affiliated with any serius pos biznessthoughts?"
"*meh* idea... moons should simply deplete in a few months (2 to 4), and the resources would aggregate on another moon that is not actively being used in a completely different region of similar security rating.so:a - incentives not to crowd every moon in your space.b - opportunities for everyone to get in on the gravy train over time."
"perhaps, but i believe my idea to be more.... plausible and not:'it is changing region and location... because' if you see what i meance"
"fixing faction war plex spawning would give somewhere other then gates and stations to fight. somewhere awesome that allows for uneven fleets to find a fight with each other.just saying it's easier to fix fw then to implement yet another half-finished feature that goes nowhere after release."
"i kinda like the idea of being able to disrupt moon goo , bt i dont think you have taken it far enough , if a convert ops wing (10 plus ships) manages to get to one of your a+ moons ( as i dont moon goo i dont know the correct term for the best moons) they should be free to blast the hell out of it effectily destabalizing it to the point where you cant mine it for a week or more."
"there is plenty of pvp at pos afaik, for caps at least. dunno what you think will happen to smaller ships under the fire of a manned deathstar. did you even had a look at one of those high-end-moons and what is anchored there?what's the 'social mobility' needed for? people conquer starsystems to live from the resources they offer.if you want some crumbs of the moon-goo cake, wait for comets.no, i don't own a moon nor have i any part in the business atmo.as for the passive part of moon mining. the most passive part about it is the stagnated exploration (90% is known and in databases to look up) and proofed method to exploit them.no idea how to solve that one though, as those moons by them self create a goal to conquer and cause a difference in the 'landscape'. if the goal comes by everyone at some point the difference isn't there any more. a puzzler to me tbh.(edit)also.. a moon delivers 100 units per hour of any of those mins. with technetium the momentary bottleneck and the most expensive (70k/u) you're looking at 7m isk per hour.next comes neodymium (22k/u), dysprosium (11k/u) and promethium (9k/u).can you please tell me where the incentive for such an operation would come from?"
"yes, i know the general armaments of a deathstar (loaded with weapons of all kinds)but my point is that unless the owners are vigilant, half or more of their goo might not enter the silos if they are not watching.another point is that not all moons are deathstars, there are also poss that are badly defended if at all and the ability to harvest that moon might be useful for people who do not have the capability to knock the tower down. it is another way for the poorer part of the game to make some isk, get a piece of the action without having to get lots of ships to shoot down a tower that may not pay for itself in moon goo before being shot down by a rival fleet.im not socialist but i will always agree with having more isk really. more isk 'generally' could mean more fights. well, as i mentioned in my previous post, it could throw out more than 100 per hour. i do not know what would wreck the market but it could be up to 1000 units of the ore spread about amongst various moon fragmentsthis is obviously just a work in progress and i welcome your comments and criticizm.ce"
"i dont think that they will have something that tears chunks out of the moon that you can mine, but perhaps a beam of some sort that siphons some of the moon resources into your own ship. this could open up a few things, mostly temporary moon mining in low sec which would increase the population of people going into low to grab a few moon mins for themselves. a cheaper solution to moon mining for smaller corps that cannot set up the defenses to properly mine a moon in low and null. as well as a way for corps to disrupt the mining operation of their opponents by stealing moon mins from their operations from under the noses of their opposition. it would force players to defend their moons a bit more and allow more people access to the moon mins being dominated by the larger corps. honestly anything that decentralizes resources in eve a bit so that the new have their own inroads to power cannot be a bad thing."
"up"
"in a side note i would like the password system in eve to accept accented latin and other non standard characters as symbols."
"yes, lets make eve a game where you are rewarded for neurotically clicking the same button. and lets punish those who dont want to incessantly click a button."
"again, as i said earlier, i think people are taking this thread as a full-on \"no local\" proposal.this is not a proposal for permanent no-local.the op's idea is to try the no-local concept in an isolated area, likely on sisi as it is a test server, to see what players think of it. this allows both sides to see the vailidity, if any, of the idea as well as ccp itself.once tested the concept will either drop dead from players realizing its an insanely stupid idea that serves no purpose......or they'll herald it as a much needed and finally achieved awesome solution to an age-old problem.you can decide which you want...but why not see it first? we have a test server, let's use it!edit: i will say that the title of the thread doesn't help...should have said \"test no-local\" or some such."
"hey bro guess what its a crazy thought but pvers have just as much right as gankers do to play eve. highsec isnt for pve only, its for playing eve just like all the other places in eve. the risk of flying billion isk pimp boats is getting ganked. the benefit is more isk per hour from missions. so get off your high horse! they are punished just as much as everyone else is. they do something illegal they lose their ship and sec status. thats the punsihment of committing an illegal act.players arent police so they arent involved in punishing criminals. if you want 100% safety move to 0.0 and live in a region where players are the police and gates are bubbled and intel reports any trespasser in the regionif i wanna mission noone can stop me and if i wanna gank noone can stop me. they are two play types. just like ninja looting which is also a hated profession by pvers, but its admitted by ccp, that its an accepted style of play. stop trying to punish a group of players in eve, instead learn how to play and avoid being ganked"
"sorry when did you get the right to 100% safety in hisec ? did i miss the memo ?"
"can't believe i'm saying this, as i'm very much opposed to suicide ganking, but let's keep it real. suicide gankers are paid subscribers too.when i'm thinking of measures to be taken against suicide ganking, i only think in terms of fairer consequences. which is to say, no insurance payout, stiffer security standing penalties, etc. giving killrights on suicide gankers to everyone is over the top, really.no; when you undock you esssentially agree to non-consensual pvp. that is the nature of the game. suicide gankers should be less pampared; and concord shouldn't be picking up the tab for their dastardly deeds; but, beyond that, it's working as intended."
"supported. carebear gankers will cry hard if this suggestions becomes reality. :)"
"in an mmo, exploiters affect everyone. billions of profit for zero risk and zero work means market distortions. remember the negative optimum range wh exploit? and people keeps wondering why sleeper stuff dropped so fast in price. that's exactly why all those suicide gankers' alts are in this thread, arguing against balancing the suicide gank concord protection exploit. they get billions of easy money in seconds for ganking a tengu in a single insured bs with 1400s. of course they'll want to protect their cash cow."
"ok, i know a few of the people against the idea, and they are not \"suicide ganker alts\". nor am i for that matter. a good number are carebares who don't give a flip if someone ganked someone else. they don't want to see that in their char sheet."
"there is a big difference between asking for insurance no longer to count for concord deaths to spamming hundreds of thousands of character sheets with useless information.make kill-rights commodities.remove insurance for concord deaths.do that and suiciding becomes an art if you want to make money and you'll likely end up with an actual pvp'er on your ass when the kill-rights are sold on the open market."
"probing could be limited to the point of resolving a warp-in point on the same grid as the item being probed. the point could be calculated as a \"centre of mass\" or \"centre of signature\", thus probing down a sniper fleet would only send you to the middle of the battlefield.this will not impact greatly on exploration, and it will serve to reopen the opportunities for sniper fleets.i wouldn't go all the way with removing jump bridges, perhaps simply limit the volume of traffic that may transit them per unit time. do the same with star gates, then jump bridging becomes an important part of alliance logistics."
"jb removal sounds extreme but at the same time it would make large alliances require more management per resources acquired. like all things eve, if you want more you work more. jb's eliminate this and effectively insulates and catapults large and wealthy alliances so far ahead of smaller alliances that shifting power is much more difficult. i would like to see nullsec more difficult to navigate (you still have cynos for logistics and capitals).the rest i don't know enough about...hehe+1 for jb removal (i sincerely doubt people will ragequit over this, qq in forums heavily until ccp has to buy windshield wipers for the serves, yes, quit your alliance and the new potential battles? not so much.)not decided on rest."
"i understand that removing jump bridges would be a big step, i wouldnt mind them being in game but i was talkin to a friend about this and he told me that he could get from fountain to venal in around 8 jumps, he is part of the nc, for me that is wrong.im open to ideas on changing them, maybe making them more for logistical purposes rather than strategical, but i really do think ccp needs to look into changing how they work because they are making 0.0 almost risk free for people which is completely against how it should be."
"support. let those farmers rage-quit. their numbers are insignificant as userbase anyway (highsec carebears make up overwhelming proportion of subscriptions), and there'll be plenty of people only too happy to fill the space.as it is, you can go on for weeks without seeing a single non-blue in some of those backwater systems tucked deep inside the blue ass of a vast alliance naptrain. sov null should be dangerous, for the rewards they give, they should not be so much safer than ganker-filled highsec."
"hey as the topic states the release of the new character creator is supposed to be on the 18th. however after reading much of the feedback on the test server feedback forums, it seems there is still much to be desired. a lot of what makes our characters us in the old character creator seems to be missing. rather than try to list stuff just head over to the test server feed back, look at the pictures and the responses from people.ccp i know you want to get it out on time, i know as a player i wanted to see it on time also, but, if you have to take an extra month and deploy it in feb. instead of on jan 18. do so! make it beyond excellent.ps for those who dont want to read the thread or log onto sisi, a lot of the feedback is in hair, glasses, hoods, facial tattoos, veils (amarr women), masks (minmatar) height and multiple accesories we have now but dont have in the new one."
"that's because ccp wants your character to be as bland and generic as possible so you'll spend more real world money on their \"micro-transactions for vanity items\". i was fine with the concept. want a really unique pair of boots, glasses, etc, fine, $1 please. ok, all fine and good as long as the characters were unique and interesting, but now that they've been made as vanilla as wonder bread, it just demonstrates the absolute bottomless pit of greed that ccp dwells in.i'd support delaying the release in order to put in more options etc, but it won't do any good. i'm sure someone at ccp who calls the shots is reading a mercedes brouchure right now congratulating himself on finding a way to get us to make his payments."
"yes please ccp do not ruc<U+FFFD>sh things we want a complete version of the char creator not a rushed one!"
"if the new character creator launches with significant deficits, then the csm will take up this issue with ccp. however, let us wait until we see what ccp releases next month before we get all upset."
"you could customize your face and and body fairly well, what it is lacking is the stuff that you would (probably) buy in the player shops in stations with the next expansion of incarna. the only thing we are really lacking is a save function for your half finished portrait. doing a good portrait require time and it is too easy to accept something \"less than good\" and then regret it."
"i agree. either release something good or work on it until it's good. not saying the ediitor isn't a great thing but it leaves a lot to be desired. options are quite limited, in some cases even beyond what the old editor allowed. and yes, i find it disappointing that apparently ccp decided that we all have to be the same length and women can't be muscular.my personal pet peeve though is that some bloodlines are changed into something totally different from what they were before. i hope we'll either get more options or an optional bloodline change."
"the only thing we are really lacking is a save functiondon't forget that we can't change our hight..."
"i think you severely underestimate how much progress they can make on this thing over the course of a month (which will be how much time has passed between the current build on sisi and the released build on the 18th). we will definitely be missing tattoos and certain accessory options, but they've said as much in the past. the thing just needs to be released first, and anything that's missing will have to be addressed after the fact."
"i think you are overlooking the fact ccp has a terrible record of actually fixing things after they become features."
"literally, the entire point of the next expansion is to expand on the groundwork of the new avatars. i know about how ccp has done things in the past, but this time you are worried over nothing."
"i used the character editor, and while there are somethings i would like, i don't think it is bad. please point out specifically what you don't like, rather then \"omg! people are bithcing! something is wrong.\""
"perhaps you could read this?"
"where did this come from i was under the impression that vanity items were player designed and manufactured using ingame mechanics just like normal ship modules. the people who will be making money are the players who rent and run the stalls and they wont be making money they will be makiung isk the only way i see ccp making money is if they charge usd for the station stalls"
"yes, that was the old concept. we'll have hair salons and tattoo parlors and players can make clothing! this will give people something to do in incarna.but then ccp realized they could charge people $2 for the privilege of having a non-beige shirt on their avatar. therefore, all of the avatars will have weird and terrible hair and exclusively neutral colored clothing.what will we do with these avatars, besides pay money to dress them up? nobody has any idea. but they've put the lion's share of devs on wod anyways, so releasing this content allows them to pretend that they're still working on eve.meanwhile, half the ships in the game are useless due to balance neglect, mining has been unchanged since 2004?, most of the pve content is so boring and predictable that people bot it, lag is better but you'd be hard pressed to find people who say that 1000+ fleet fights are enjoyable/fun... at least the infinity universe beta is supposed to come out this year. edit:forums ate my post"
"a lot of new players and experienced players alike have issues with the visioning system. especially since a high sec farmer can happily run missions for his home state and then be spontaneously blasted out of the sky by the navy simply by flying between regions. all because of the intertwined mess called faction standing and the complete lack of smart agents.i have two simple ideas which will fix the missioning system so that players will never again have to eat standing loss by declining a mission.the first change is intelligent agents. by combining a simple ai script with the ability to read basic ship info you can ensure that missions are always assigned that can be done with the current ship. for example if your are flying an indy you will only get currier missions. if your ship has mining lasers on it you will have a higher chance of mining missions. if your ship has a small cargo hold currier missions will take that into account and never give you a larger cargo than you can fly. the second change is a toggle switch for political neutrality on the players character sheet. selecting this option will mark your player as a neutral party and you will only receive missions against pirate and null sec factions leaving you neutral in the affairs of empire politics.in all allowing the agents a little common sense as well as allowing players to mark themselves as uninterested in political missions you remove the two major issues with the mission system that leads to player declines. that is missions that result in major loss of faction standing and missions that cannot be performed with the current ship"
"lol"
"so i would ask for level 4 missions in a frigate and get 100 m3 of cargo or a few enemy frigates?will not work."
"i'd support this as an option"
"graphic option, i'll support. 3d would be cool but hell on some machines and could potentially affect server too (i don't know on that part though).this has been proposed before, i'm too lazy to find the thread(s) though...like you.+1 for graphic upgrades (until my computer is considered slow again in two years)"
"support. even the round button icon from back in the days looks better than this badly pixilated square image that aa don't seem to have an effect on."
"lulz, i should probably give this my support."
"sounds very good, tho i'd like a new animation ^^"
"there is something in the upcoming december summit minutes (due out in perhaps a week) that touches upon this topic. sorry to be so coy, but you'll have to wait and see."
"coool and i agree"
"...and by \"coy\" you mean \"not in violation of the nda\" very nice, thanks for the update csm dude."
"how about getting the old animation while at it? whs are boring."
"allow ships to pass through acell gates rather then bump into them.its annoying and unneeded"
"why? it's not like they are hard to avoid and you can't pass through any other object either while flying out of warp."
"everything in eve would be easier to avoide if the colision skeleton was actually shaped like the object in question and not a giant honking cube that for example extends 10 km beyond the asteroid and slingshots your mining barge out at 100 times it's max velosity when you warp to it.the colision system in eve in and of itsself is frankly beyond hope.considering that there is no tactical advantage to hiding behind a lco because missiles and lasers ignore them alltogether. i think that colision should just be turned off alltogether for environmental objects like lco and asteroids and be restricted to where it is actually usefull eg between ships for tactical ramming. in a game like eve there is such a thing as to much realism that actually causes more harm than good. oh by the way you can fly through moons and planets at sublight speeds just fine"
"drone user checking in and supporting"
"sounds awsome, please forward this to ccp csm!"
"as a gallente weenie, i am in favor of drone ui improvements. however, the best way to get attention from ccp to a good proposal is to describe the problem and the benefits that would come from solving it, with proposed solutions given only as examples.also, back off and take a broad look at the drone interface. for example, thing that has always bugged me is the inability to easily recall damaged drones and replace them with undamaged ones. this has already been discussed with ccp btw."
"armored warfare mindlinked pilot says supported."
"hoping this is a troll, but the damage calcs are good, though maybe a x3.14 if their goons. and if its chribbba it repairs him."
"no, because you post in red. and you fail to realize that color tags do not effect the title."
"do not feed the troll."
"*voice dripping with sarchasm*hey lets just give concord a back door into your ships self destruct if you commit a crime you instantly blow up problem solved. oh poor booby you lost a noctis full of salvage. 100 mil is really not that much. try loosing a deadspace tanked hulk like i have or a fully officer fit battleship before you start *****ing about saftey. no/lock plz"
"i get really ****ed off when people start talking about macros as if they are bots. because of you ignorant idiots macros are banned under the same catagory as bots. a bot. is the main issue in eve. a bot is like a npc ai script that interacts with your client and allows your ship to make intelligant descisions and play the game on it;s own. a macro is a usefull tool that allows you to recoard a series of keystrokes into a single button for example a gaming mouse can have a macro where pressing programable button activates your entire second module rack by pressing alt- f1 2 3 4 5.macros are advanced keybinds that players use to make up for deficincies in the user interface. they are harmless and because they must be triggered by a user pressing a button they are useless for automating eve.i cant even use my gaming mouse because ccp made it quite cleare that they are complete idiots who see macros and bots as the same thingan example of a macro would be a latched keystroke. a latched keystroke says when i press programable button one the mouse will press the f1 key once every 5 seconds till the button is pressed a second time ending the macro. this is usefull for autopiloting allowing a ship to activate the afterburner. a bot would be the h-bot eve pilot system that program reads the screen and warps to 0 every time completely replacing the autopilot and allowing bot haulers to avoid suicide ganks. the bot gives the player a unfair advatage by removing the risk of autopilot. the macro simply allows the ship to reach it's maximum speed when aproaching the gate by activating the afterburner. the second method gives the player no advantage other than making autopilot more efficiant. the ship still warps in at 10km and can still be suicide gankedthe worst problem is that if eve does have a bot detection system a macro is more likley to trigger it with precicly timed keystrokes than a true bot who has countermeasures to randomize it's click timersit is a real can of worms but there should be allowances made for simple programable hotkeys and other simple macros that do not break the game and serve no purpose other than preventing carple tunnel syndrome due to a crappy interface that people keep asking ccp to fix but it never gets done"
"so ccp decided it was about time to do something with their 2006 (?) plan to enable the eve capsuleers to \"walk in stations\". the first step was - afaik - taking the world of darkness character editor and use it for eve. so far so good, if it works, it works doesn't it?there has risen quite a lot of concerns among the community during the last few installments of the editor, though. if you read the feedback threads but also threads like these, these and this - and this and this assembly hall proposal it's clear the part of the eve community that tested the editor isn't 100% happy with the changes.basically there's three issues:1) the new editor looks great but the options are very limited, even more limited than in the old editor. although more clothes are said to be added later, things like having \"all the same height\" (probably men taller than women), the removal of a lot of favourite hairstyles (like mine or the long sleek achura/khanid style), skin tones (no pale options), hair colour options per bloodline (like sebiestor can't have blonde hair anymore) and tattoos does raise some eyebrows to say the least. 2) a number of features seem to be bugged. like the effect of primary/secondary haircolours seems to be random for each hairstyle. some long hair options really clip a lot and go straight through the face. tails don't seem to be attached to the head.also the age and body weight effects still don't really work very well.3) a number of bloodlines (most noticably vherokior but also khanid) have changed to another race. this will making a new character that even remotely resembles the old one impossible. effectively ccp forces some people into a totally different look, which most players don't want at all.next to that there's some questions:a) are there plans to add more options (expressions, hairstyles, hair colours) will we be able to remake our characters once more options are available? for plex or for free?b) does ccp have any plans to enable a change of bloodline, rather than a portrait swap (which has to be within the same race/bloodline) ? either for plex or for free?c) will we be able to save our \"work in progress\" while remaking the characters? the new editor produces very nice results but the interface isn't always that intuitive and people may want to take their time for the remake.as said before, these concerns and ideas have been already posted in a lot of threads but feedback from either ccp or csm has been minimal thus far. and that while the eta for the new editor is within 3 weeks! i know the community hasn<U+FFFD>t been very noisy about this thus far, but i think we<U+FFFD>ll get a lot of very angry players once this is released as it is om sisi atm!!"
"i for one will be crushed if i cannot make my new avatar look like my current one. each character is an extension of the player and to be honest i may form a class action if they really **** up.but to be honest i have a feeling in a universe as vast and wel conected as eve there will be alot of inter racial and inter blodline marrages so it is actually unrealistic to restrict traits specifically to each race or bloodline because said genetic traits will undoubtly have cross contaminated. players have the right to make a unique and personal avatar and ccp is wrong to bind players to their own views of appearance and bloodline especially in a universe with really good plastic surgens."
"bobcat goldthwait of course."
"thread made in error. locking thread."
