"yes, i agree with this."
"i support this, no, i demand this!!!"
"supported"
"yes."
"supported!"
"1.0"
"oh yes please.. no more proclaiming to be \"excellent\" without actually defining what \"excellence\" is."
"absolutely. sure, i want to see incarna for a laugh, and sut could be incredible. ...but if the game is in it's current state when those go live, the players that come for those new features will be dusgusted with the current state of affairs, and not stay, while those of us currently here keep leaving.edited for spelling."
"be honest people, the very word \"excellence\" coming out of ccps mouth sound mind boggling. we don't expect true excellence, and ccp is very certainly not capable of providing it.all we want is that core aspects of eve don't get completely abandoned for at least next two years, and that bugs and balance problems, both trivial and severe, have people working on them and real solutions in the pipe."
"more excellence supported"
"i support this."
"/signed"
"right onccp should really be smarter about third party apps.just think: how much dev time would it take to make evemon? or eve-central?all you have to do is give people tools, and they make all this stuff for free.if only the ui were this way. say what you will about wow, you can't argue that the quantity and quality of the player-developed ui mods for that game are anything short of incredible.our players are smarter. i bet they could come up with way better stuff if you worked on opening up the code more."
"while highsec shouldn't be completely safe, i do agree that suicide ganks needs a gimp to bring its profitability back down in line with other professions. you can potentially earn billions of isk for a few minutes of work and cheap gankboat that's insured. the reward is far too huge for so little work and no risk for the ganker in insured cheapboat. the risk/workload vs. reward ratio is off."
"i think you forget to actually remove the troll content adida (hint: the whole post)"
"know who else can potentially earn billions of isk for a few minutes of work, only without any risk? scammers. and that's an allowed mechanic in eve, just like suicide ganking, only no isk lost and no risk required. and this reward doesn't come out of nowhere--ppl have to be stupid enough to get caught in the right place at the right time under the right conditions to be suicide ganked, while a scam can be done anywhere, anytime. get some perspective before u post."
"meh, this crap again?you napsec'ers wanna pull your wang out any time someone with a 3-day old account suggests highsec should be safer and then argue to blue-faces on both sides about how the other is \"ruining the game,\" or \"doesn't get eve.\"take your own advice and stop taking the game so seriously.ps. ambivalent at best about the topic. don't care. not supporting or refuting."
"heh, i tell you yet again: i've never been suicide ganked on misssion. but i do know many instances, and want to prevent that possibility. and there is no one, how great smart a#s he could be, can escape a planned professional suicide gank. if they want you - they will get you for sure. and they will want you if you're flying something decent they can strip for themselves for no penalty at all. so, that's it: i removed everything valuable from my paladin (except hull and t2 rigs, heh) and replaced it with t2 junk. very funny crap it became, and i just wonder: why the developers made all those faction and complex mods in game if we shouldn't use them at all because of continuous suicide gank fest? the progress is stopped, and there's no real point in game."
"they created it for the people who have the ballz to dock out with them and use them. even them said they never wanted the high-sec to be perfectly secure.criminal do have penalty by the way, that why they don't kill anything that move in high-sec but only rich people with really juicy thing. you're arguing that they should be safe, the dev and lot of player said it already, they don't want you to be safe, they want you dying. your idea have been posted many time now. if the devlopper really wanted for you to be safe they would have done it already. and you know, some of us love to have risk, even in high sec. i for one love the suicide ganker on gate making stupid trader miserable while they let me pass because of my tank. just play another game if you don't want any risk."
"i made around a bill in a plex this morning, and it was perfectly safe. since i've run it before and it was in alliance space, the risk was essentially zero. and there was no \"potential\" about the reward: you get 100m in bounty, 220m in overseer effects and an x-type module every time. too less than an hour from undocking to redocking.so yeah now we've disposed of that silly argument, the suicide ganker can also \"potentially\" get nothing. how much he gets is entirely up to other players. no guaranteed reward whatsoever. if they're careless with incredibly valuable cargo then it's not that suicide ganking is inherently too easy, it's that the victims are too foolhardy.all it takes for suicide ganking to be wiped out overnight is for fools to stop afk hauling valuable cargo in untanked ships. got a freighter full of tritanium? by all means afk autopilot that, no-one is gonna bother. moving the deadspace fittings for your shiny new nightmare? the for the love of god use a supertanked drake or a covops or something, and at least try and make it difficult.move your pricey stuff around in something like this. unless someone cares enough to get an organised fleet of 20 or so tempests, you can just laugh off any gankers. it's cheap too.[drake, move me]damage control iipower diagnostic system iipower diagnostic system iipower diagnostic system iilarge shield extender iilarge shield extender iilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iiimproved cloaking device ii[empty high slot][empty high slot][empty high slot][empty high slot][empty high slot][empty high slot][empty high slot]medium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender i163k ehp. enough cargo to move the fittings for the faction bs of your choice from jita to whichever misison hub you use. unless you're moving estamel class stuff, no-ones going to bother."
"ah. so, they're for people with a great desire to get their own ballz to be separated from themselves. interesting, indeed.i've heard about people with such a masochistic perversion. but there is a whole lot of space for them in lowsecs, where they can be ra#ed 24/7, as they wish."
"1. who said they had to actually be in the alliance or corp? blue standings r sufficient enough.2. wanna elaborate on this, especially since this is supposed to be an actual proposal in the assembly hall, not some half-assed idea in features and ideas?3. if by the ppl u can't account for u mean every pirate who's blue to an major alliance, then that's an awful lot of pirates who r immune to this system, even with no blob.4. this is exactly what the trolling is for--u ask for a decent argument, yet your own \"argument\" regarding the system's viability outside of high sec consist of \"can't stop them from abusing the system\" and...5. when u say to give ppl more credit, u do the exact opposite for the pirates by vastly underestimating them.6. and what difference does it make to give a worthless incentive to spend your entire subscription time hunting down one person with all that effort? get real--no one would find that fun unless 1. the target committed a crime much more serious than generating kill rights and/or 2. the hunters have no real-life obligations requiring their time.7. refer back to #4 and 5.8. much like how u're immune to it thx to your blob, so it wouldn't interfere with your game or theirs? if that's supposed to be some sort of bribe to try to silence the opposition, not gonna happen.so basically, it's credible to offer slightly more isk for ppl to stop shooting whoever they want and instead, go on a subscription-consuming wild goose chase or a blob trap that isn't even a worthwhile income or fun for its risk and effort to begin with? wow--this is no different than the fail \"boost low sec\" proposals that get spammed in the assembly hall. ever came across a pirate who set a high bounty on himself? think he just put it there 5 seconds ago? no, he's had it there for a long time because he knows wtf he's doing. it's not that i'm not giving the bounty hunters enough credit--it's u that's not giving the pirates enough credit."
"op updated with ideas/comments"
"imuran,15,22,47,46,65,66"
"this is bull****.i was told that we would be able to get haircuts in space stations.i hope the haircut interface involves three-layer-deep right click submenus and modal dialog boxes!"
"ophelia ursus,11,12,15,22,35,39,47,48,52,56overheat bonus:"
"zelot blueice,5,11,23,31,37,38,65,69,70"
"gai luron,85,71,62,56,39,24,29,30,52,59"
"seamus donohue,14,22,24,35,45,46,47,48,57,76"
"rootimus maximus, 8, 9, 19, 22, 30, 31, 39, 42, 47, 51"
"hay, this is me!#34 insure ship contextual menu item.not sure if you wanted to make links to proposals that are on the list."
"to the people who seem to love pulling statistics and game mechanics out of their asses: ecm is chance based - (attacking ecm module strength) / (defending ship's sensor strength)*each module does an individual calculation, not total strength of all mods* (as in per mod)any time the numerator (attacking ecm str) is lower than the denominator (defending ship sensor str) it converts into a percentage chance, such as 1/3 or a 33% chance to jam. eccm modules are active modules that increase your ship's sensor strength by 96%. this means that in order to \"perma-jam\" the ratio needs to be 1:1 (or 1/1 if you like fractions), currently the highest jam strength is a falcon's of around 15 and is therefore physically impossible to truly perma-jam a battleship, with a strength of 22. (15/22)example strengths - all skills lvl 5base multi-spec (3.1 strength)base racial jammer strength (4.6 racial strength/1.5 all others)scorpion (6.8 multi - 10.3/3.4 racial)falcon (9.7 multi - 14.6/4.8 racial)blackbird (6.6 multi - 9.9/3.3 racial)example sensor strengths (defense) - all skills lvl 5titan - avatar (200)dreadnaught - moros (44)bs - raven (22)bs - megathron (21)bc - drake (19)cruiser - maller (14)inty - taranis (9)recon - falcon (28)example - falcon /w racial jammer (14.8) vs. drake (19) 14.8 / 19 = 0.778 or 77.8% chance to jam per module applied on targetop's statement at worst case - scorpion /w racial (10.3) vs. bs (~22 + 22 eccm + 22 eccm)10.3 / 66 = 0.15606 or 15.606% chance to jam per modulebased upon math, the op is either confused, a horrible liar, or a troll."
"isnt it obvious they didn't turn their eccm onanyways u need to take into account the rigs and the skills at lvl 5 too in your calculations.as for nerfing it.. i recall so many times when a single eccm will stop a logistics from being jammed stop *****ing about bad luck.this is eve. htfu"
"big thumps down champ i don't know how many pvp engagements you been in with less the 6 people in it in low sec or hight sec, you norm don't see that many sniper fitted ships so you looking at close range. a mega for on max range is about 6km high dps, raven 7km torp fitted, geddon 20km and a ac fitted temp 11km. the temp beaning the one to look out for coz they have some crazy fall of ranges, so you you wont have much of a problem with your scorpion, and for the sniper hacs i have never seen any of them fitted. the really only cruisers that have 20 ss and over are the faction ones and recon ships. so thumbs up to this post and fix ecm or the ecm ships lest see more shooting and less dead ships in space :d"
"and neuts on a curse are not owerpowered? please, stay away for nerfing the only thing caldari are good at."
"nothing ruins pvp faster than ecm, 2 weeks ago i was in a double eccm ishtar, 75 sensor strength and was jammed with ease, by a falcon for two cycles straight away, was in an eccm harb the other day, jammed by ecm drones for the whole fight (3 or 4 minutes solid) so these days i just abuse falcons and ecm as often as i can in the hopes others will complain about it and get it nerfed, its long overdue a mega nerf."
"i think the the principle of this game mechanic itself is bad.ecmed pilots can do nearly nothing but watching their ship/gang being melted.this means a lot of frustration, much more than just being popped.just look at similar mechanics in other games like the sandman in team fortress 2 or the stun lock in the mmorpg-who-must-not-be-named, it always lead to drama.and making it chance based only makes it worse since ,although most of the engagements will happen roughly as the probabilities would let you expect, there will always be a few where the ecm ship will perform exceptionally well or bad. and guess what ? it's these few exceptional engagements players will remember and whine about.changing ecm to something new would need a lot of of work and balancing and thus won't happen anytime soon (if ever), but the the chance based system leading to ridiculous situations probably could and is imho the way to go for a short-term fix."
"the obvious answer is to improve tracking disruptors and remote sensor damps."
"fix it naow, and i'm not even kidding!i have to flip the scanning plane around every time the signature is below the centerline just so i can see the probe widgets."
"back story: i was recently robbed by an in corp thief, and once i started to investigate how i, the end user or my ceo can monitor what happened to the corp assets. there i stumbled in a dead end issue. ccp developed the in game corp management design so that a thief has all the advantages to steal corp property once he reaches some sort of access privileges, or in worst case of shared corp hangars the option to clear corps assets without trace back to him, while the victim of such thievery and the ceo stays without the option to prevent it. even in case of a single man being given the privilege to manage corp assets and some asset \"disappear\" the ceo has no proof that the privileged person took it as no record can be brought as a fact.in the case as i described i turned to ccps gm via a petition as i had no suspicion that some one just came and took my items (2 bil worth of ships been stolen) and i claimed that the items were probably lost in the recent database issues, gm started an investigation about some items that i have lost. he informed me that the items are not lost but someone just claimed the assets from the shared hangar. on the request to see the log that it was indeed another user and not a server glitch i again found myself in dead end. the gm refused to disclose the other users actions as by ccps policy and eula, neither was he able to face me with any fact that the item was not lost in the database glitch.even when i claimed that this is a flaw in the game design that me as a end user can't track to what happened to the lost item, was it really taken by other user or was it deleted, the gm just leaves you in doubt.so after i started wondering around the web to find similar stories, and as it seems that the game has dis balance in the corp management, and the tools provided in game. the gm is able to track where and what happened to an item, while the ceo can't nor any other official figure in corp. as so it gives all the advantages to the thief and load of frustration to the managers and the victim. the victim can't retaliate to the act of in corp thievery nor the managers have the tools to track and remove the thieves. solution: add to the corp hangars changes log, no need for a too much long log, a 7 days in my opinion is enough. so that an official figure (ceo, security officer) can access and see who took what. by so giving factual evidence to the end users of what happened to their assets. this will prevent frustration from the victims and will warn the thief that if he be found stealing he can be punished for that.another fun idea that i thought is to make a new skill in corp management \"access log decryption\" so if you got level 1 it will take you about 5 days to decrypt the log, find out who took what and then find the thief. at level 5 it will take 24h to decrypt, this means less time for the thief to run away with stolen goods. the con's of this solution is more items to process on server side, but as it looks that those records already there as the gms can access it."
"i was about to post saying your throwing a fit over corp theft but then i see your just complaining about the lack of the who/what and not necessarily the \"theft\".theft is normal in this game... but i for one would like a log book for any corporation hanger (station/outpost/pos's).put it into api so it can be tracked by apps like evehq."
"corp and alliance roles and permissions need a total revamp.this would be a good part of that."
"3 of the 4 have major issues, and the last one could still use a buff. their dsp is terrible. their range is hampered because they can't fit the highest teir lr guns. their alpha is weak. their hit points are less than most of the teir 4 frigate fits. explain to me how this is wrong?"
"the problem with destroyers is that the niche they're supposed to fill is one that nobody really needs - mediocre dps from long range, with an alphastrike which used to be credible but (artillery thrasher aside)ceased to matter since the hitpoint boost in revelations(?).for all destroyers:remove the 25% rof penaltyremove 50% optimal bonus (replace with more appropriate racial options)remove 2 highslots and 2 turret hardpoints, add 1 midslot and 1 lowslotreduce sig radius to around 60-70m2(?)increase base shield hitpoints for cormorant/thrasher and base armour hitpoints for coercer/catalyst to around 900.beyond that, the individual hulls need some tweaking to properly work with their primary weapon system but this would be a start."
"no, look at factionnal warfare, they are anti-frigate and are really efficient at it, you just don't know how to fly them if you complain or want to fly them in a situation they aren't created for."
"just because i can convert the time, doesnt mean i want to all the time. i even setup my comp's clock to show me eve time right beside my time but that doesnt mean i like to do the math..."
"who cares about walking in stations, scrap incrapa...i mean incarna and get back to what this game is about.internet spaceshipsthat is all"
"pinkelton: i only want internet spaceshipsccp: sorry but that was just the start. we want a full sci-fi simulationpinkelton: bawwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww"
"you know you want it.stop resisting."
"lets say i am making ranks. 1-15 and you go to sort them by name:123456789101112131415but instead eve does this:110111213141523456789fix this, it is incredibally annoying."
"cos it's silly as same as windowz does it, just write:010203040506070809101112131415"
"no.pick on people who want to fight, or better yet go somewhere like lowsec or 00 where war decs don't mean crap."
"you're wardeccing the corp, not the actual players. thus the way the game works, deal with it.not supported."
"if you make noobies targets of constant hazing that they can't get away from, they won't renew their subscriptions. ccp is running a business, mouths to feed and bills to pay..."
"think twice before you war-dec.not supported.want targets? low sec roams. (something i recently discovered to be quite fun)"
"gb2wowkthxbaialso post with your mainfixed for you"
"not supportedpeople have a right to personally evade wars with other players. if you wardec a corp where the majority of the players leave it afterwards then clearly you have choosen to wardec a corp that is not in the constitution of fighting back. also the statement that \"eve is a pvp game\" is not entirely correct. eve is a sandbox style universe \"simulator\" that covers many aspects including pve and pvp."
"they can pay extortion money or hire mercs if the don't want to fight. instead, they usually corp hop and get npc's (concord) to protect them for free while they amass isk with almost no risk in high sec."
"so you wardec a corp, and people leave the corp. too bad. you wardecced a corp, not a player. if you want to kill a specific player, you can kill them regardless of if you are at war or not. any ship will pop if you bring a few friends to suicide gank them. even their nice faction bs or marauder will go down to a coordinated gank. however, you appear unwilling to consider options like that, as it would require effort and coordination. it seems you aren't necessarily looking for fights as much as cheap kills."
"i know, i do this a lot. it takes only three or four artillery bs's to kill a kronos."
"and because high sec is less risky it is that all the valuable ore and rats are in lowsec and nullsec and w-space.people sacrifice part of their income for more security. seems perectly balanced.your motivation howerver is completly unbalanced. where is your risk when u wardec defenseless carebare corps ? why dont you wardec pvp oriantated corps ? afraid you might loose against an even enemy ?"
"a simpler thing would be to give a cooldown time for any player to join a corporation (except for npc)after disbanding from one that's wardecced. this prevents using shell corps to avoid wardecs, while letting people who want to opt out a safe haven. if you disband corp due to a wardec, there should be some penalty, but not that.otherwise people will just play other games or use alts instead."
"been saying this for 5 years now... persistent flags per corp member.wholly supported."
"this.and this."
"there's a popular mmo that has pve and pvp realms."
"yes, and so as eve has both pvp and pve content.not supported."
"\"eve has pve and pvp content, therefore people should be able to corp hop to avoid wardecs\" makes absolutely no sense. reread your post, because you're essentially arguing that the existence of pve content proves that people should be able to opt-out of wardecs instead of paying mercs, paying extortion, or fighting."
"what you are missing is that the peopble that can \"hop to avoid wardecs\" already do pay a price for this ability: the immense profitability difference between highsec and lowsec/0.0/wspace. there is no reason why ontop of that they should have to pay another price in form of paying mercs etc.."
"i'll bite.highsec is more profitable for most players (excluding people who can solo sanctums, miners in nullsec systems where very few neutrals roam, and a few other players like ones who can safely rat in npc sov or good truesec 0.0) than lowsec, nullsec, or w-space because there's almost zero risk. sure, you might make more per hour ratting in good truesec, but you also have to defend that space which takes time (and isk if you lose your ship) and you're usually making next to nothing while flying in defensive fleets. you'll also lose a ratting ship every so often, even if you watch local.the absence of actually having to spend time defending yourself in highsec makes it more profitable, for most players, than lowsec, nullsec, or w-space."
"you said it yourself. its a tradeoff between higher security and more profit. wether or not highsec or 0.0 is more profitable in the long run is very individual as per player. if you know alot of people, are in a bigger corp/alliance it is more profitable to be in lowsec/0.0 in the long run. if you play mostly solo then high sec is more profitable in the long run."
"i'm not against pvp by any means (just look me up on bc).a wardec is against a corporation. by forcing members to leave the corporation, you've won. people can still end up playing this game if they are completely outclassed and outgunned by leaving their corporation.the comments about lowsec and nullsec are not about \"consensual pvp areas\" so much as \"it's a place you can go and shoot them anyways\". on the topic of \"pvp and pve realms\" you can still shoot anyone in highsec without a wardec - just look at hulkageddon.in the end - when you've completely outgunned and outclassed your opponent - he can retreat to relative safety in highsec, away from the corporation he may have known and loved. but continue to play the game in some capacity. he may not have the isk to pay you or mercs.you've won! imo, take your victory and move on to find someone who wants to actually shoot back if that is your goal."
"slimy, you know that most of the wardec in-sec are not monetary in mind?most of them will accept no money and just want to kill people who can't fight back for the lulz.hell, i can't count anymore the number of time corporation with close to nothing got war-dec without reason because they offered target.you want to remove the only means to people for playing simply because you want thing more easy while you already have an option to kill the one who really worth it. worse, you would not achieve your end anyway because they would simply stay in a npc corp.****, if is was not because of that i would be actually for it because rich carebear are not the only one who abuse that option. i helped a corp who got war-dec and when the attacker saw us coming what they did ? they hided in a npc corp. they only wanted easy target to ransom, not real fight."
"the in-game calendar is a good tool, and i thank ccp for implementing it. however, there is the problem that it shows monday as the left-most column and sunday as the rightmost column. i realize that this is the standard in some countries, but in other countries (most notably the united states), calendars start with sunday and end with saturday, which makes the eve online in-game calendar somewhat disorienting.if an option could be included to let the user specify if sunday should be the left-most column instead of monday, then it would be appreciated. thank you."
"sunday is part of the weekend so having the week start on that day is incredibly dumb.supported though, as its being requested as an option and not a change forced on everyone."
"actually for some groups (and i have no idea which) sunday is the first day of the week, and not part of the weekend.a quick google with give the answers."
"good tweak suggestion. like it zach."
"supported. eve needs some more content that is only in lowsec. there's very few targets there as it is; lowsec pirates spend most of their time fighting each other."
"in order to familiarize yourself with the subject please check out this threadthanks in advance for your support!"
"create a new mid slot weapon that has limited ammo and only about 5km range...maybe even have power/cpu requirements so only cruiser or larger ships can carry it...that when fired at another ship allows the user of the weapon to track the ship anywhere in eve. if the victim has high enough electronics upgrades skills they will be notified that their ship is being tracked. if the fleet commander has high enough electronic upgrade skills they will be notified of the player that has been tracked that is in their fleet. once a ship is hit with one of these tracking systems the only way to remove it will be to dock up. if they were not notified during flight that they were being tracked due to to low of electronics skills then they would be notified once they dock up."
"1: find locater agent2: get scan prober (if said target is not docked up/logged off)3: ????4: profit!"
"i'm just thinking along the lines that this is something that would come about in any universe. this isn't for tracking people before an engagement such as using locater agents. it would put a new angle to warfare. maybe your entire purpose of attacking someone wouldn't be to destroy them but to track them so a larger force can come in and finish the job. it makes perfect sense to me. i think you've been reading to much slashdot...profit!"
"learn to use the tools you have kid.stop making stupid/foolish game breaking ideas.you'll live longer."
"you already have the ability to \"track\" a target... simply zoom out the camera, watch where the target goes, guesstimate where the target warped off to, go after him/her (alternatively, send \"fast tackle\" to intercept).having a warp disruptor/scrambler so the target doesn't escape in the first place also helps too."
"who doesn't know this?you guys don't get it. just because something is a new idea that changes how the game could be played does not make it \"break the game\". say you're in a wh and they warp to a safe spot and cloak up. say they are in a massive fleet and you want to know where that fleet is without having neutrals sitting cloaked in every system just to do it. i hate to break it to you guys but just because something new is introduced into the game that would cause you to play the game differently or consider \"what if\"...does not mean it breaks the game...it just upsets your status quo. if that's the mindset then what's the point in making any suggestions at all. no room for change in your world."
"stop coming up with excuses for your short comings.you obviously haven't been playing eve very long or you'd understand that your idea is in fact game breaking.there are many many tactics involved in tracking down targets... i've used them myself.... and i've also used counter-tactics for hiding.giving someone the power to know the \"exact\" (note the quotes) location of any one pilot in the game by firing off a shot may seem like a great idea to you but you need to put that idea in the hands of the worst possible scumbag (in your eyes) possible and multiple that by 60,000 (roughly the con-current population of eve right now on a daily basis give or take). people who play this game very well use it and abuse it... they bend the rules to there advantage and make it work for them. your tool will be exploited... abused... and utterly made to be used by someone else in any fashion other than what you wanted it for.if you have any amount of sanity or intelligence in thinking things through you'd see your idea is in fact quite utterly horrid.in short.... we already have what we need... the game is working as intended. don't like it? tough.now if you don't understand any of what i just said...this is eve online.... not \"i-win\" online."
"is it possible to send a email a few days before someone's account expired.thanks"
"this would help alot please change this."
"i don't plex but this makes way too much sense."
"way too easy for ccp"
"let us drag and drop from acess customs office window, so i need to have one less window open, instead of opening the \"acess hangar\""
"it stands for \"remote repairing\"... basically you target a friendly and repair them. the exequor and osprey are the two t1 rr support cruisers and it doesn't take that many skills to get into one and fit it properly (takes about a week or two, tops). i'm going to stop your right there because i know exactly what you're implying with this.first off; skill points do not define the player. they do help you achieve your goals and give you versatility, but they do not make your character what it is.second; there is a total of 5 levels for every skill and only a select number of skills are applied while in any one ship.this means that if you train up and specialize in frigates (a process that takes a little over a month), getting most of the relevant skills to 4 or 5, you can just about match the character that has been playing for 3 years in a comparable ship. if you specialize, the only thing an older player has on you is playing experience (i.e. tactics) and more versatility in swapping to a different ship (which you won't give him the chance to do because you're long gone by then).the game is supposed to be hostile and teach people that they have to rely on things outside of the game (i.e. not game mechanics) to accomplish their goals. if you can talk well, be diplomatic and see if you can't find a solution to your war dec issues (there's no trainable skill for that). if you can command well and stratagize well, put it to the test and lead your corp into battle.such examples of people thinking outside the box are:- early on, when i was a nub, my corp was full of other newbies and maybe 1 or 2 veterans that were leading us. we got a war-dec and were camped in for a good amount of time. our vets got tired of this, consolidated everyone into one station, got everyone into t1 rifters, and had us undock at the same time. we all died but we took down two t2 ships with us. the war-dec ended the next day.- my alt likes to war-dec carebear corps. we stumbled upon a newbie corp that couldn't defend itself nor pay up. so, to end the war-dec, we had the corp ceo come on to our voice comms and sing \"i'm a little teacup\" for 5 minutes. - there is a famous case where someone's very expensive ship was caught and ransomed... the victim didn't have the isk to pay so he ordered a delivery pizza for one of his \"captors.\" once the pizza arrived they released him."
"and there are plenty of corps that are well equipped to help newbies deal with little inconveniences like war decs. the issue seems to be that the op joined one that isn't in a position to help him enjoy a war dec."
"not really. the corps that are the most friendly to take newbies are often the ones that can repel a wardec the least: hi-sec mission and indy corps. not everyone wants to be funneled into rvb, fw, or e-uni. the stronger corps or alliances want higher sp and usually t2 ships and bs.i think they should really look at the new user experience about that. i remember trying to find a corp as a newbie was really meh because of that. myabe some form of mentor program or something."
"just an fyi: it's god damb \"unfriendly if not hostile\" for experienced players too. the only difference is that we've (mostly) learned to deal with it*. guess how?delaying the start of the learning process helps no-one.*actually some people never learn to deal with it, but that's a separate issue."
"-- rr:as far as i know if someone rr your war target, they turn red now, and they still should turn red with this proposal. as i said in op, this proposal only apply to wardec, all other mechanism stay the same. if they take part in a fight, then they cha"
"so... step 1 - join unprepared \"hi-sec mission and indy corps\"step 2 - get slaughtered by first war-dec facedstep 3 - blame the systemreally? my corp has a newbie who just joined us who can't fly anything other than his rifter yet. he has zero war-dec issues. why? he would laugh his ass off at the three step \"it's not my fault, change the game\" process i have just (sarcastically, i admit) described. it's the responsibility of the individual to join a group that supports and meets the individuals long-term goals. if the goal is to not be a victim of any random high-sec griefer, war-dec, ass-hat corporations that come along, then joining the described \"hi-sec mission and indy corps\" might have been a less than optimal choice. there are other choices. the beauty of eve is it's not too late - the very moment the op takes ownership of the choice and decides to do something different tomorrow he/she will start \"winning eve\"."
"joining or forming a corp is a statement to the world that you are capable of defending your shared interests. if you aren't, you shouldn't join a corp like that.groups like e-uni show that coordinated noobs can cause some damage, or at least make wars not be much fun for their opponents. either stay in an npc corp, or be prepared to fight. sheltering new players from the reality of eve won't help at all, as eventually they will have to swim in the ocean with the sharks."
"your argument is same as numerous above nad nothing new.my point is, they can't afford, or too costly for them, to swim, and npc corp is not the answer."
"your argument is same as numerous above nad nothing new.my point is, they can't afford, or too costly for them, to swim, and npc corp is not the answer.i agree that npc corps are a poor answer and i respect your desire to get out of them and stay out of them as quickly as possible. more new players could use this dose of backbone. understand that all of us who have given similar answer have been where you are. every rich old vet was once a broke noob. we understand the position you're in. the first corp i joined was involved in a huge war at the time i joined. my poorly fit t1 cruiser (best i could fly), minimal skill points, and small bank account made me a minor contributor at best - but i did contribute. the corp had a ship replacement system and several times i was given ships to help fight the enemy with. ship replacement policies are not uncommon and they solve the problem you're facing. this is one solution. some empire corporations will hire mercenary corporations to solve war-dec problems for them. there are many merc groups out there who would be happy declare war on your attackers for a fee. this is another solution. what we are saying is - if your corp has not planned ahead and has no solutions to help you get through this war dec you may have joined an under-prepared corp. you can now decide to work with them and make your corp stronger and overcome this problem together, or you can look for other corporations that are in a better position to help you deal with war decs that may happen in the future. you're a pod-pilot. all ya need are brains and backbone - not game changing safety features. i do wish you luck with whichever path you follow."
"please create drones that can do salvaging for us."
"i'd support this idea, i would even purpose a dedicated ship made by ore for it and that those drones be able to be loaded into this ship only plus it will be given bonuses for the tractor beams."
"didn't ccp say catagorically that this would never happen? something about drones making for more lag?"
"i support the ability to change a characters gender. my reasoning is that there are many body alterations available in the eve universe. as shown in the burning life.i support more role play based on facts given to us by ccp."
"i would like to see ftm and mtf options, also i want hermaphrodites.when you are at it, i want marriage not only between male and famele, but also between male and male, and humans and drones.dronesex is not a sin! i am serious."
"lucky its a \"sandbox\" game and we can do what we want without arbitary restrictions!supported. :)"
"see my signature, and it was supposed to get addressed like 6+ months ago...ccp fail."
"when i played ffxi i had to compete against harvesters for resources too. did that make ffxi a pvp game? no. when i played it i also had to compete against people undercutting me at market, sometimes by a lot and we'd have price wars. that make it pvp too? i also had to compete directly against others for a split second chance at claiming a rare mob. is it a pvp game because of that?what about robbing the guild bank? other games do that too, are they all pvp ones? eve players for some odd reason extend pvp status to things which aren't. as for pvp itself, it shouldn't be taken out or anything, but it's just not fun for a lot of eve subscribers. it's too heavily based on numbers and size, and a lot of times its avoided either partially through metagaming or completely by running away or staying docked in station. the last two big \"events\" in game were suiciding mining barges and u'k getting disbanded.i think stuff like incarna is designed to retain people who like eve, but pvp simply isn't enough. it's smart. look at aion for example-it's similar to eve in being a heavily pvp focused game with less pve and it's struggling."
"krecian made this wonderful post explaining the different aspects of 'pvp' in eve and then you ruin it with a ****fest like that. way to go."
"ori's post does a great job of exposing the conceptual and pragmatic problems with pvp fundamentalism. lets look at this misplaced theology a bit more closely. finnagain is right that ccp uses piracy as part of its marketing for eve. ccp also incorporates darwinian struggle as a thematic arc. while the prospect of battles in space draws many of us to eve, it doesn't follow from this that eve is a pvp-sandbox, as opposed to a sandbox with pvp. epic battles and piracy can take place in either kind of online universe. so while it may be good marketing, finnagain is taking these advertisements a tad too literally, while making a basic error of reasoning. what motivates this error is a dogmatic belief in pvp fundamentalism -- that the essence of eve is pvp, and the rest of its activities and players exist to service pvp ambitions. pvp fundamentalism is often justified by claiming eve is darwinian, that is, hyper-competitive. unfortunately for finnagain and friends, this is a misunderstanding of darwinism. darwin had a place for both cooperation and competition in his theory, and 'fitness' was never equated with hyper-competitivism. that is spencerism (and some other evolutionarily inflected political ideologies). so too, he placed great emphasis on the role of moral and social norms on individual and group fitness. indeed he thought of pro-social behaviour as arising to promote fitness. this pvp fundamentalism also leads to an over-interpretation of everything in eve being 'pvp'. krecian illustrates this with the notion that mining, buy orders and salvaging are pvp by another name. such overly broad interpretations are the signature mark of fundamentalist ideologies. in point of fact, mining, trading and salvaging are as much characterized by cooperation as they are competition. so too are virtually all aspects of eve. corps, alliances, coalitions, trade agreements, fleets, and their like would be impossible without a high degree of cooperation and pro-social norms. this doesn't eliminate competition. rather cooperation and competition go hand-in-hand. so from an empirical and descriptive point of view, eve is still better described as a sandbox with pvp (a.k.a. a cosmos). does thinking about eve as a cosmos ruin the game, end pvp, or make eve into a single-person rpg? no. will it end piracy, stop griefing, necessitate arenas? no. pvp and non-pvp elements can and do exist simultaneously. the sky is not falling chicken little. indeed, from the looks of incarna and dust, i'd say ccp is trending towards a fully realized cosmos. perhaps for precisely the reasons ori points out.delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"i play starcraft 2 as the zerg. i build as many drones as possible and mine as many minerals as i can, sometimes exceeding 12k mins in one game!! i don't build the fighting units because i am a moral person first and foremost."
"i like to think myself pretty close to the center on this debate, actually. the only thing i could be considered fundamentalist about (nice attempt at rhetoric there, using a word that conjures images of religious zealots beating on heretics) is the idea that you shouldnt drastically change the core gameplay of a game after it gets a sizable loyal customer-base. what constitutes a drastic change is up for debate.im sorry if people do not like my broader view of player versus player. but to me, anytime you compete for limited resources, the game becomes competitive (yes, even in such games as wow). however, if i came off as saying the cooperative part of the game has no place here, you are mistaken. this is an mmo, none of us here should be playing to be solo. and yes, this means working together on common goals. as it says in one of my channel motds pvp is more fun with a friend. hell, those who like to shoot other players are just as dependent on the industrialists to provide them ships  like it or not.but, without pvp, the games eco-system will implode on itself. there is just not enough item sinks for this game to work without it. and thats why i call it the lynchpin of eve. its not because i like to kick sand in peoples eyes, its not because im anti-social. indeed, im actually adverse to willingly going into pvp on my own(my corp directors often have to drag me by the ear into a roam). but i recognize it as being the driving force that makes the other activities within the game doable. there is no npcs out there to buy up your modules and ships. and honestly, there is few missions out there that are a risk to an experienced pilot. thusly, thats why i call eve pvp first, because without it, you wont have much of a game for very long without some drastic changes."
"you have to understand that deliliah is just an anti-pvp campaigner who is trolling the topic now with sophomoric word games. ccp says it's a pvp game, ccp advertises it as a pvp game, it also is a pvp game. but deliliah and others support nerfing pvp, so they need to play silly word games that get old after first-year college english courses.it's just the same old troll, like during the campaign when deliliah rabidly attacked anybody who pointed out the facts about ank and claimed that ank's raging hatred of piracy and desire to nerf it into the ground really meant that she wanted to make the game better for everybody. plus the utter comedy of not understanding that the word darwinian refers to something a bit more up to date than the origin of species is just some good troll-comedy there. it's like an idiot trying to argue for why economics aren't darwinian, since we're not sure which applies, punctuated equilibrium or gradualism! and of course, it's not a \"thematic arc\" (someone should have given the troll a few more low grades on freshman english papers, she writes like she's trying to apply a post-structrualist critique to mission running) the essence of the entire game is a darwinian struggle; for resources, for space, for market share, for trade routes, for time, for kills, whatever. deliliah can troll her heart out and pretend that doesn't count since her freshman english comp 101 behavior is still intact and she can pretend that eve is a \"cosmos\" (whatever she thinks that means) and it's not a pvp game because they're introducing walking in stations. because, obviously, if the xbox lobby feature allowed you to chat to people and you were represented via an avatar, team fortress ii would be a \"cosmos\" and not a pvp game, either. eve is, and always will be a pvp game. those who don't like that should probably just leave already. it's simply kind of dumb to join up in team fortress ii and then whine about how there's so much shooting going on."
"hi kecian, your point is both well-made and well-taken. in other posts i've noted that pvp is indispensable to eve. this is very close to your linchpin idea as you've so well clarified it. we might differ slightly, in that i also think other aspects of the game are indispensable and thus linchpins of eve. industry for example. but i'm not sure we disagree here, or are simply framing the matter differently. a non-antagonistic difference, so to speak. would industry count as a linchpin activity in your mind? are there other aspects of eve that are arguably dispensable or indispensable, and would thus affect whether eve is though of as a pvp-game or sandbox with pvp? maybe we should shift a longer discussion of this over to another thread. i'm glad you enjoyed the rhetorical strategy. delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"predictable trolling deliliah, as always. try harder. at least make it funny, and not simply pretentious. team fortress ii is not a pvp game because:-it has ammunition. that is a linchpin, and you can't shoot anybody without. obviously then tfii is not a pvp game, but a game with ammunition and pvp. -you can build things. thus, it is not a game with ammunition and pvp, but an industrialist-ammo-pvp game. -but tfii is also a game that relies on distance away from objects in order to calculate movement and lines of fire, therefore it has space, and thus it is a space simulation. so tfii is really a space simulation game that happens to occur on a planet with gravity. -and, it isn't really even a pvp game, since you can play a medic all day and never hurt anybody. in fact, entire teams can play nothing but medics if they want. and, in fact, you can even cooperate. even while shooting people, you can team up? and if you haven't seen a map, you can even explore it with friends. how crazy is that?!? so, obvious, not a pvp game. what does that make team fortress ii? obviously it is a space simulation game with elements of pvp, cooperation, ammunition, industry, and exploration. kinda like a cosmos. only a pvp zealot would ever say that team fortress ii was a pvp game."
"that's becoming a bit of a common theme isn't it? data gathering, processing, analysing, repeatedly each of the 3 turns out to be flawed, resulting into consequences and trends players signal long before ccp does. this independant of ccp's communicative and decision level capability to act on events and trends accurately and proactively.it's as if ccp's economical viewpoint is one of the old school of externalised perspective, combined with data point / snapshot methodology, leading to situations where patterns and trends that players see / follow / push from an internalised / immersed perspective cannot be captured or even be properly mapped out over time and thus can barely be engaged on proactively - or even just correspondingly.it's as if the perspectives, methodology and processing objectives visible in the qen are pretty much what ccp - by analogy - relies on internally to base decisions on. that is pretty scary. even more scary then what became visible in the csm minutes in regards to business metrics and the interalised perspective of ccp management."
"this is the first i've heard of this. csm as a group was not told about it in either an email to us nor mention on our internal forums.*sigh*"
"a better title would have been: \"player councils and agile development, or; how to troubleshoot corporate communications, data processing, consumer product value segregation and flexible decision processes through proper application of scrum and best practices business development methods\". with as a catchphrase: \"all decision makers are equal, but some decision makers are less equal then most\".figures why they want the meetings in seclusion and only upon request :p"
"oh my."
"yes, nice shafting potential in either case, due to the unfortunate wording or freudian slip.do a poll inside the csm? to decide whether they would rather be called \"tools\" or a waste of time.gotta love the extra twist you can give \"useful tools\" when you put it next to another two word description beginning with useful."
"with apologies to the csm, both of course ! (\"tools\" obviously)another facepalm from :ccp, where will they stop"
"heya all.i believe it is best that i answer for this since i am the guy who will be holding this lecture.the summary for this lecture is:\"in mmorpgs the usage of 'player councils' is becoming more apparent and more widespread. games like age of conan, star trek online, star wars galaxies and eve online have been known to use, or are still using, player councils. but towards what ends? can these player councils serve some better or another role as a community tool than what we have available already?\"i sent in the proposal sometime mid april this year and got an acceptance response the 28th of may.now, i want to apologize for using the easily misconstrued word 'tool' in the subject for the lecture. we believe that the csm is an important tool or an instrument to increase the likelihood of the eve community being as healthy as possible. the csm is a community instrument (tool) and in my opinion it is far from being a waste of time. studying what we at ccp are doing compared to what other game companies are doing is a very healthy practice i believe. and i try to be objective and critical when i look at the csm in comparison with what the other developers are doing. this lecture is a part of that process. other lectures that i have held about the csm are:nonick, bilbao, spain - may 2010gdc austin (now gdc online) - september 2009gdc san fransisco - march 2009if you want to read about other developers that have gone further than ccp has with the csm, you can read about 'a tale in the desert 4's laws' or 'lambdamoo'."
"military experts some dudes are predicting the surge in \"community health\" to take merely 18 months+n."
"@ccp xhagen: it would be great if you could share a link to your presentation in this thread once you've given it at the conference. any chance of that?"
"he is correct however, and i do think he is honest in this belief. let me put it this way, it is not the prc social media marketing we get served in other places, nor is the comment subject to the usual ccp marketing \"overexposure\" challenge. if anything, the csm process - with all its flaws and issues and its highlighting of internal ccp challenges as a commercial organisation - is one of the aspects still in line with one of ccp's core company values: transparancy. this aside of its experimental nature, its evolution of role and purpose, etc.all the crazy stuff aside that have happened since the reykjavik sessions of this csm, it is quite clear that as an instrument the csm exists quite well as an instrument of channeling and focusing community communications, and sentiment. that this is a double edged blade, is something that speaks for itself - and that's not a bad thing, since the csm even as an experiment prior to its stakeholder role (and even now as sociological observation point) has a wide variety of other current and potential uses. for all parties involved.that being said, considering the csm this round has managed to somehow let ccp demonstrate its own bottlenecks and differences in perspective, i do think it is fair to say that even within the current limitations and frustrations - as a process - the csm has a definite value to many player perspectives.but, i also think the time of experimentation is over with it. a player council like the csm, it's been a few years of experimentation, sure, but those days are over. just like hilmar once said, \"perception is reality\". simply out of that viewpoint, the expectation of the csm by ccp to get to work within roles and terms signals that the experimentation phase is over. nobody denies it is an evolutionary concept, and it will continue to evolve and grow and possibly even change. but, it's yet another case where the pressure point is once again with ccp. if this is to be serious, it is time to get to work, and csm has already begun that work. visibly, with accountability, with workflow and with clear communications and timelines."
"so...it's august..."
"i support them and wish i could call for a vote of no confidence in ccp's leadership, to sweep some csm members into those positions."
"i also support this. don't spend time on making half assed crap, instead improve and fix the old features first."
"supported"
"i wholeheartedly agree with this proposal!"
"do it."
"could not agree more - some of the key success factors for scrum are excellence in quality, transparency and continous communication"
"yup"
"yeap, supported.the devil lies in the details ccp, never forget that. its the small things that keep ppl in the game, not the shiny new armors."
"supported."
"supported. quality, not quantity, ccp."
"supported"
"im a nearly pure pvpler and can fly the sleipnir. i never do, because in most situations it dont bring enough benefits over hurricane, drake or tempest."
"this might be a very weird suggestion but: i would like to be able to view the contents of my customs office remotely.i use my co as a staging area for building materials for my processor colony, so i need to know what i'm low on to effectively supply my colony. not being able to view the contents of my co except for when i'm in that system is not very convenient.(and what's the word on that \"survey all\" button? it's like you're getting punished for having high extractor colonies by having to click every pin four effing times)"
"bump."
"1.0"
"supported"
"i definatley like the ideas.1+ from me."
"i dont think they are worthless, in high sec yes, but low/0.0 you can get bank just from 1-2 sites."
"+1high-sec magnetometric sites are not worth the time spent to probe them out. i fail to see the point behind them: they're rarer (for me) than radar sites, they're harder to probe out, in high-sec they take barely less time to run than radar sites, and t"
"dunno about high sec, but i'd like my 100, 150 mills of worth in intact armor plates from sansha magnetomatric sites being left alone :d"
"aww come on! spread the love! let us carebears in highsec at least get a tiny taste of what it's like to get magnetometric sites like that :d"
"i'll be flamed for this but...join a 0.0 alliance and join the fun?"
"make them drop faction pos bpc's.. that'd make them worthwhile (low-sec and 0.0 ony ofc )"
"voting is now closed - thanks to everyone who participated!the final results are posted here!the csm is soliciting player input in their efforts to prioritize the backlog in preparation for the upcoming release planning meetings at ccp.listed on this wiki page are all 168 items that have been passed by csm and are listed as \"in process\"; this means they have neither been implemented nor rejected by ccp.to register your input, pick up to 20 items from the list that are the most important to you, and post a message in this forum thread that contains your picks on a single line, formatted as follows:<player name>,pick#1,pick#2,pick#3,pick#4,...,pick#20* your picks do not need to be in priority order. you can simply scan down the list and pick the ones that you like.* you can pick more than 20 items if you wish, but the strength of your votes will be diluted proportionately.* you can pick less than 20 items, but this will not increase the strength of your votes.* xtops has generously built a lazy vote generator that will properly format your votes. it will probably also stuff the ballot box with his favorite issues, so caveat elector.thank you for taking the time to help. we will be doing our final prioritization this weekend, so time is of the essence.best regards,trebor"
"pick#9,#10,#12,#14,#19,#48,#49,#50,#69,#75,#135,#136"
"tsubutai,7,9,19,21,25,34,35,41,45,47,48,66,94,97,98,102,115,120,122,167"
"swearte widfarend, pick 8, pick 19, pick 23, pick 45, pick 69, pick 105, pick 113, pick 138"
"drake draconis 139, 121, 112, 106, 101, 99, 38, 8, 6"
"nerevar dwemor,3,16,22,34,39,49,79,83,87,96,100,133,167,168"
"maxsim goratiev: #8, #3, #16, #22. #24, #33, #39, #37, #45, #50, #48, #55, #95, #100, #104, #112, #124, #122, #127, #132, #137"
"hashi lebwohl 5,12,13,14,15,19,24,25,32,79,83,86,97,107,164,167"
"mister swift,2,5,9,14,15,16,19,32,33,46,47,50,51,52,54,69,105,109,134,138"
"fixed the lag!!!"
"i normally do not post with my other accounts on these assembly hall topics. but i am wondering if you want us to here. we can vote for csm with each account. should we post our wishes here with each account or just one vote per actual human being? sorry if this is a dumb question but don't blame me. if i don't ask it, the dumb won't know any better."
"my picks: 10. 19. 22. 34. 69. 79. 115. 139. 153. specifically steered clear of the fw related as i dont believe it can be fixed piecemeal"
"staticviolence,133,156,83,40,111,70,31,79,69,136,129,130,75,54,43,45,36,39,35,21"
"kythren,8,10,14,18,22,31,33,34,35,53,70,71/72,83,86,100,103,105,108,122,160"
"malcanis,167,161,132,35,30,19,9,17,138,134"
"conifold // #5 #12 #18 #19 #23 #34 #40 #48 #51 #52 #53 #54 #63 #87 #92 #94 #102 #133 #136 #168"
"makenshi drakonnen : pick#48, pick#19, pick#15, pick#69, pick#142, pick#156, pick#168, pick#164, pick#120, pick#114, pick#100, pick#25"
"chatgris,7,8,12,14,19,21,33,34,56,57,58,61,62,63,64,65,135,95,132,102"
"wr3cks,167,144,132,131,148,108,54,34,24,3,10,20,23,36,56,92,105,108,116,127so while i'm looking at how a software company should prioritize development, it occurred to me that you could order these csm items as a grid (3x3 or 3x4). one axis would describe overall intensity/effort required, ranging from low (rockets, af 4th bonus) to medium (neuts on overview or reconnect to lost drones) to high (overhaul corp/alliance interface). a second axis would describe the nature of the team that would be required to implement the fix, with the underlying assumption that certain kinds of dev resources (coders who know c#/whatever and can fix the guts of the game) are more scarce than others (producers who can update tables and make changes to content without programming, or testers, who i believe are among the lowest-paid and least technically savvy of studio employees):*the more intense projects (say, fw fixes or pos system overhauling) would probably require more than one coder, in addition to testers and possibly artists. *less intense projects would require one coder and a couple of testers (showing implants on pod killmails). *even easier (from a coding standpoint) projects that require no coders, but instead rely upon producer/game \"dev\" types as well as testers. these are mostly balance issues, e.g. active tank viability in pvp, minnie recons, bops, info war links, rockets, afs, etc.*finally, a fourth category of ideas/requests require resources that fall outside of the traditional coder/artist/tester/gamedev bucket like spanish translation, requests having to do with the forums, having the econ guy do another review of mineral sourcing, etc.anyways, $.02. hope the commentary doesn't muck up the regex engine that you're going to use to parse this page."
"cheekybiatch5,13,22,35,86,109,134,138,168,164,107,122,100,66,67,45,23,25,17i don't see a post about fixing blasters but if there is that one for my 20th"
"jareck hunter 10,20,31,38,39,40,98,100,149,167thats it from me, often doing corporate managment work and pos, areas that \"never\" got touched since they where introduced...don't think this post will change anything, but well, i tryed."
"7, 13, 14, 15, 16, 47, 48, 66, 75, 109.those are the most important, in my book. they are in no particular order, but #16 is the most important of all."
"irjuna valar,108,33,40,38,39,109,110,122,132,137,101,102,7,19,20,23,78,83,97,98"
"definately:interscene,6,19,25,27,34,35,84,89,94,112,113,136,148,152,154,156,157,160,164,166the commiting to excellence - really should be pushed. don't let them forget the threadnought we just had, players have spoken very clearly on the lag issue beyond all others. hound and harry them please!it may not amount to much, but there's a very varied and balanced list of things to hit. probably rather than raising new issues the csm should definately be trying doggedly to get ccp to implement some of the things they've voted 9-nil in favour of.otherwise the csm is just behaving like ccp, chasing shiney's and looking to always create new content (ideas) but not seeing those ideas implemented or pursued.a captain obvious statement i know but the balance is in creating new issues in line with not letting old - and good - ideas drop without flogging them to death past the point it should be dropped in favour of fighting hard on something else.i still believe in the csm! go guys~!"
"fak jaelt,7,19,23,24,33,34,39,43,51,52,60,61,62,63,69,102,105,111,112,122"
"paritybit,5,7,8,14,15,16,19,39,48,69,79,101,104,105,110,132,137,138,147,164also, i think issue 66 has been addressed as part of the deep safe nerf; logging off while in warp results in a ship arriving at the warp point and then emergency warping -- so no matter how many times you log off and back on, you should still always be warping back to the original spot."
"good question. i'd say one vote per person for now. i don't think it'll make that much of a difference, and i'd like to keep it simple.actually, when i was first elected, i built myself a database for all the leftover csm4 issues that rated them multidimensionally (feasibility,value,urgency). but feasibility is something you have to consult with ccp about, and urgency is highly correlated with value.so for the purposes of this poll, just rating on value gets you most of what you want for minimal complexity.there are probably several issues on the list that have been superseded. i didn't have time to winnow them out.nah, it just throws away anything not formatted exactly the way i specified. what good are the opinions of people who can't follow directions. actually, i'll just hand-massage the votes, then run them into a custom app i'm going to whip up tomorrow that will generate the results.thanks to everyone who has participated so far (and i will post the results, of course)"
"first of all thanks to the csm for doing this.fawka34, 53, 154, 10, 110, 3834 commit to excellence (csm)38 corp hangar audit logs (csm)53 easy overloading toggle (csm)154 titan bridge range (csm)10 add the feature of switching characters without relogging. (csm)110 personal wallet divisions (csm)"
"just scanning through - issue 158 \"trading navy cap boosters\" has already been implemented in game. maybe others have been, will check later if i have time."
"stick cult,19,22,39,54,69,67,73,149,152,168,164,135,136,138,120,105,100,47,17,10page 2 snipahedit, wasn't 161 - show fleet composition implemented a few expansions ago when the fleet finder was implemented??"
"vaal erit,12,23,29,34,40,45,48,63,66,67,69,102,111,115,123,136,165,166there are a bunch of issues listed twice which will skew results. stuff like probes to overview 8/123 and targeting from broadcast history is in a few of them."
"cearain, 54,79,102,105,5,7,8,9,22,65"
"karles, 153, 166, 14, 48, 53, 66, 67, 97, 102, 105, 132, 133, 137all rest i don't care much"
"do i need to ask some more people to post??"
"t'amber didn't tell me to do it."
"bumpand i forgot to approve :)"
"i'd stand by the point that an interceptor is the best way to move small volumes of valuable cargo. not only is it stupidly fast (which saves you time), it will blast right into warp from gate cloak so unless you fall asleep, no one will even have the chance to lock you."
"or be pro-active about the gankers. sit at the undock of jita 4-4 in a fast hauler (stabs and nanos ftw) and just loot the wrecks as the gankers make them. game mechanics - same ones the \"pirates\" lord on about - mean that they can't do a thing to stop you. better still, you can create a wreck looter alt in one easy step, mince it and create another one (all within the eula) so that the wreck creators have no idea that it was you continually stealing \"their\" stuff ."
"so really why has this thread made it to 3 pages?messenger001 is a alt toon. this is either a troll, or someone who needs to go play wow.eve attracts people because of the \"sandbox\" gameplay, some people like this, others don't. those who don't shouldn't keep playing eve."
"confirming. i possess a masochistic perversion which involves being held down and ravaged in low-sec. ohhhh baby, do it harder!!!!in fact, i am so \"full\" of my aforementioned perversion that i just have to prance on over to high-sec and share my experiences!! oh joyous days!!!"
"finally got around to reading the second page. and as for this part:confirming i'll be waiting at said gate with a discophoon to meet you. and since you are also an alt, all you posts should be removed for trolling. probably an alt of messenger001."
"i like the idea, would be very cool to train to become a bh. stealth camp. :)c."
"i am not sure about the pod kill part. but this would be the best feature added to eve since apocrypha."
"i'd love to see a functional bounty hunter porfession... i mean who doesn't want to be han solo?"
"/support finally high sec pirates can be actually countered :]"
"signed and approved!bounties for drones! =p"
"issue: it is not possible to have multiple jump clones in the same station.this is a problem for anyone who uses multiple sets of implants on a regular basis. limiting the number of clones available in a particular station limits the number of ships a pilot can fly effectively.solution: allow multiple clones per station.notes: if this is the intended mechanic, what is the rp reasoning behind it? will the clones fight each other, governator style?"
"jump cloning between implant clones in one station would be nice. it's not a huge deal in high/low sec space where there are multiple stations in a system, but still, this shouldn't be that tough to figure out. supported. no switching of implants - people need to stop suggesting this. not supported.if so, i will pay good isk to watch it. i think the 24 hour timer is slightly painful. that's a good thing. it's just long enough that you have to think \"do i really want to do this?\" before clicking it, but not so long that the answer is always \"no, it's stupid\". not supported."
"i would support point 1, as it used to work in the past. i cant support point 2, for the same reason as seith.so i cant support your proposal at all."
"the timer doesn't really matter to me, i just didn't know whether the original issue was big enough to get any attention. op updated, now you can support me."
"mixing proposals is always bad as you cant really support it when you got one thumbs down in the list. so one proposal per thread is better.to seith: i think the op refers to clone jumping inside the same station. this used to work in the past. yes there are others who ask for easy implant swapping when inside the same station, but i dont understand the proposal like that. maybe the op can clarify that part. ;)so +1"
"exactly. i'd like to, for example, have 3 clones in station a, and one each in stations b and c. in this situation, i'd like to be able to jump between clones in station a without losing implants, and also be able to jump from a clone in station a (3 clones) to a clone in station b or c (one clone each) without losing a clone and implants."
"i've lost a clone this way. i support this.also, would be nice if they would auto-pause the skill queue and auto-restart it once the clone jump was completed. it's not a deal breaker, but it's like having those manual door locks that you have to unlock before you can open the car door from inside the vehicle (in the front seat, i'm not talking about the child-proofed back seat locks)."
"nick bison, 6, 8, 9, 14, 16, 24, 39, 54, 76, 85"
"laina delapore; 8,9,11,13,14,15,34,37,38,42,63,65,69also; wouldn't it be nice if faction/t2 laser crystals and mining crystals stopped being uncontractable, because you've loaded them into a ship's guns/miners and/or fired them a couple of times?"
"we are pushing the core issues, hard. but the point of this proposal is to prioritize a bunch of tiny fixes that can be stuffed into cracks. it's always good to have a plan b."
"arklan1 1, 2, 8, 20, 32, 34, 37, 40, 57, 61, 62, 71, 72, 81, 84and in case i missed it, anything to improve the tiny tiny font outside for chat windows."
"thanks trebor - i'll shut my crapper now :)"
"if you can talk out of, or even type with, your crapper, you may have a future in show-business."
"itsmehck1,11,35,47,52,56"
"paritybit,11,22,29,35,37,46,47,48,52,56"
"commoner,9,11,12,14,15,42,52,53,54,71"
"mahyard lymm,19,27,28,38,42,45,53,65,83,86"
"okay, so you said yourself, eve is unrealistic. i made a proposal to make it more realistic with regard to the political system. i don't see how or why that's a bad argument.the fact is, there *is* an obvious rl analog to my proposal: treaties and agreements and other peaceful transfers of territory. also, obviously, most of what you listed is so \"unrealistic\" because there's no obvious rl analog to almost anything you mentioned. of course that's all based on fiction and backstory."
"well i agree that theft should be possible, but i don't agree that you can't find out who stole something and you have no option to counter the theft. it's like having bank employees with the access code to the vault, but the vault comes without a cam recorder to see who entered. now all are suspects if anything goes missing but the bank manager has no evidence when or who took something out. even if only the security officer knows the access code, and he becomes the main suspect the manager still can't prove that the security officer took something, and the security officer can't say it the other way that the manager took out the missing item.now if there was a log, the manager can see clearly who was the last person taking an item out, and if that person doesn't agree to place the item back then by that he declares being a thief and the corp can deal with it by standard actions (claiming the thieves assets and blowing his ships up).or the thief knows that the ceo can monitor who stole what, so he need to plan his theft very careful, like any bank robbers they need to have a plan of escape, i.e. hide all his personal assets, remove the ships from poses, do the theft, resign from corp and run so that the ceo and rest of the \"robbed\" corp will have a new target to chase/place bounty on the head. so i think this will add another aspect to the game.today, items go missing and no one can tell what happened to them, the gms only say that you should have watched your assets closer, so you go mad to find out who took your ship but can't do anything, you loose trust in your corp mates (this counters ccp's idea that people should join corps), in the end you are left as victim of crime without the option to revenge your hurt soul(think i'm over dramatizing here).about the api thing - i feel that if we pay for the product it should give us all the needed tools in game provided by the developer (who's pay check we the customers pay) and not provided by third party developers who do it free of cost."
"well first of all, they are alpha machines, dps is not that important. also, with the right skills you should be able to fit the largest t2 guns available to them with no big problem. an advise: use micro auxiliary power core on frigates/destroyers. gives better grid bonus than a rcu2.and again: remember to keep separate the issues due to the ship and the issues due to the weapons. railguns/blasters have problems on their own. yes, this makes the gallente and caldari destroyers subpar, but fixing the ships isn't the solution: a fix for the hybrid guns must come first.i didn't say they are perfect, but they are good enough. really, if they were improved by more than a slight bit frigates wouldn't see any use whatsoever (or at least, they would last even less than what dictors last in fleet fights lol)."
"destroyers need a little boosting but thats it. if played well they can be devastating ;) 300-350 dps on a t1 small fast agile ship that costs if rigged 6-8m is amazing!all i want is that all destroyer hulls get a total 2 mid slots.. 1 mwd 1 scram-disruptor. no point on being frigate killers if they cant pinn them down. also a slight cpu boost might needed in order to fit dps mods+scram (ok now i want too much).also cormorant sucks face it. best destro is amarr pulse fitted. best range + 300dps = dead frigate."
"hell no. we don't need ships to be overpowered by design, leave that to the ccp ****-ups that occur regularly.let me do it for the ship i know best;coercer (now): 250+dp@20km/300+dps@7km, 1.7k.s, 5.2k ehp.coercer (then): lol! suck on this cruisers!destroyers already do their jobs perfectly fine, all they require is for all of them to brought up to par with the thrasher with regards to fittings.i do agree with the signature reduction, but that high a speed increase would make them too fast compared to the slower frigates. cannot support."
"the cormorant is deceiving. yes it probably has the lowest dps, but has the best tracking if you manage to sit around your optimal. at ~70 kms, with spikes, you have about 3700 m/s of maximum trackable transversal speed. this means that even a dramiel going at full tangential speed will still be hit. if you want even more tracking (albeit at about 5km less of range), iron charges offer you a trackable speed of around 13000 m/s (though of course both speeds depend on keeping range, but then again you are not really going to solo in a destroyer, are you?).so yeah, it has its uses... does even half decent dps at 26 km range with antimatter."
"so what if just you and a handfull dont want it its an expansion giving eve another layer of immersion as they create a total sci-fi experiance and that in my book cant be a bad thing im looking forward to incarna personally and i cant wait"
"resistance it futile..."
"i really doubt that it's a small handful that think a purely social expansion not focused on space is a bad idea. while ccp goes about their grand plans of avatars walking in station what makes eve is slowly being left to rot. where we once had 1000+ ship battles we now get node death with 200. alliance after alliance declares that the old sovereignty system was better and faction warfare is forgotten. ccp is so focused on implementing new content as fast as possible they have lost the commitment to excellence that made us all enjoy this game. say what you want, troll where you will. i still say scrap incarna and fix what's here."
"i know many people who found the idea of an mmo with no character avatar repulsive, i would imagine the largest slice of the playerbase that wants incarna hasn't subsribed yet because of it's absence. if you don't like eve as is, stop playing. if you do like it, stop demanding it be 'fixed' asap.i like it, will still like it tomorrow, and will like it more after incarna."
"good idea! /massive sarcasmthey've spent god knows how long working on it so it at this point would be much more of a waste of resources than releasing it."
"i don't see how the \"fixing eve\" part of development could be enhanced the slightest bit by reallocating all the modellers and animators from the incarna team to the eve team. therefore of course not supported since it is bogus."
"i find your lack of faith distrubing.personally, i don't want incarna, i want a playable internet space ship game were i use my internet space ships to kill other peeps in internet space ships and not broken pos, broken sov, broken p.i., broken fw, broken mechanics, and truckloads of lag. i look past these things becuase eve is one heck of a game which i will gladly fork over $15 a month for. if ccp is going to release wis, then i guess i'm along for the ride."
"please refrain from using the word \"immersion\" and eve in the same sentence or post.eve is internet space subs in space. there is no los, and 5000m/s is considered \"fast\". eve will never be immersive so stop using that as an excuse to defend incarna...."
"i'm not happy about incarna either but it is the obvious next step for ccp to dedicate their resources to. i will admit that when i first started eve i thought it was odd that i would never seem my character other than that small portrait. i doubt incarna will add anything of value *to me* in this game. but there can be no doubt it will attract more subscribers than fixing rockets and afs. will it *keep* more subscribers? i doubt it, because people who play now signed up for this game despite knowing you will never see your character other than the little portrait.i predict a 30% boost in subscriptions within the first 9 months of incarna's introduction. (i also predict a bit of a drop in the meantime though.)"
"there are a lot of us who want/wanted incarna but not as it's being portrayed now by ccp as nothing more than a social expansion. but scrapping it is by no means the answer. ccp has already invested too much time and resources into it to just throw it away. what needs to be done though is to put it on hold or at least slow it down so that some of those resources and manpower can be put back into the current eve with the intent of fixing and polishing the broken and half-finished features.as for the comments about immersion... immersion is a personal perception. what constitutes immersion for one player may not do a thing for the next person. being a sci-fi fan most of my life, eve is an extremely immersive game to me, but the lack of an actual avatar does detract from that somewhat (not enough to keep me from playing though). i must admit, when i first started the game and began customizing my portrait, i seriously thought it would be used more. i spent quite a bit of time on each of my portraits (three accounts with all the slots filled) to get just the right look and expression to project what i envisioned the personality of that character to be. but it was pretty much a waste of time because the portraits are so small and used so little ingame that the small nuances that give the character 'character' are lost. hopefully this will change with incarna but to be realistic, i'm not setting my hopes too high given ccp's recent track record with a lot of hype and promises for their expansions and then delivering sub-par results which are half-finished (or broken) and then left to languish in their 'backlog'. i just started a blog over at evepress.com - of immortals & dust-eaters - an eve chronicle. my first blog - footprints in the dust - is a short story entry into the contest inspired by images of eve competition #2 at starfleetcomms.com. the story illustrates one aspect of what incarna could be instead of just mini-games and socializing. over the time between now and its release, there will be more of this type of fiction as well as any info available on incarna and dust 514 along with discussions. incarna has sooo much potential. it will be a real shame if ccp holds to the social aspect alone and ignors everything else that it could/should be.not supported"
"it is not a purely social expansion; it is focused on space -- the stations are in space. i'm looking forward to incarna along with a lot of other people, so i won't support this proposal."
"propose a destruct mods/cargo feature to be added, that can be activated to destroy all valuables when a ship pops, on condition it invalidates insurance. should discourage highsec suicide gank, and allow anemic lowsec markets to be seeded. it would also encourage more natural forms of piracy, as in ransoming, instead of destruction.it's a logical and natural action that's been done frequently irl in the past by shippers against frequent piracy, although only by drug runners now in modern times, due to infrequency of irl piracy currently, and preference for ransoming instead of destruction when they do occur. the practice would've also have developed naturally in eve, if only game mechanics didn't arbitrarily block it."
"bitter suicide gank victim?not supported."
"supportedmy pirate alt rarely get a chance to ransom, ppl just make certain assumptions and don't respond to it. ransoming becoming a norm would make it more interesting to be a real pirate.as for highsec gankers, sucks for them. those losers regard huge rewards/no risk exploit as their birthright. come over to low and we'll show them the ropes."
"someone remember the uproar about white wolf corp and alliance and the number of wardec they has simply because they were a corp mostly made by ww employees?having the devs playing eve is a good thing, the problem is the tinfoil army (calling them a brigade is too reductive).they are the main reason why the playing dev/gm are very wary joining the sov holding alliances. the possibility to get back your character with another name don't compensate for losing all your contacts and in game friends if you are discovered. from the replies in the gf we have a good number of devs willing to confirm that they play eve. let's hope they will increase."
"scenariolets say your alliance is on a major offensive and resupplying pilots with ships, guns and ammo is going to difficult. my proposal would be let supercarriers and/or titans produce goods at a greatly accelerated speed in exchange for a 5, 10, 15% + increase in the mineral cost of the item.i think it would bring an interesting dynamic to the game. it would be nice however to offset this by making attacking sov alittle harder... but i digress :)"
"i'm no 0.0 junkie, but did you just say \"make attacking sov harder\"?i don't think you'll get much support for that bit of it.lag is already bad, and a good number of people already find supercarriers to be on the overpowered side. i don't think they need this."
"it's called a rorqual.super capitals are offensive/military ships... not industry. (not that i'm stopping anyone from slapping a mining laser on said ships (if they have turret slots)."
"fair enough point, let the rorq do that then"
"yep, add rorq's big brother that can't dock or go into wormholes but has built-in refinery, massive cargo capacity and industry slots to produce anything a station can, should be worth 2-3 outpost prices though."
"ccp liked ahnk's ideas so much that they had to stage an nda breach to get her out of the csm and into their dev pool."
"tl;dr summary:1. she lied on her resume about working for ccp2. she lied about saying she 'developed' some sort of mmo/game thing as part of her unaccredited educational requirement3. she lied to her employer at the time4. she then disclosed a bunch of internal privileged information she got from ccp being a member of the csmso her employer at the time contacted ccp, had a nice little chat and ccp dropped the announcement she got bounced like a ping pong ball. now everyone is all hush-hush waiting for the lawyers to determine if they are going to (and/or where) they are going to file legal action.in the meantime she should never be able to work in the industry again due to the publicity and google. and good riddance. it's people like her that should never be promoted from 'dishwasher'; and even that kind of a position might be a little too difficult. apparently she even had an episode involving a spoon at the summit.oh, and i couldn't think of a much nicer thing to happen to such a useless carebear. mind you it is partially ccp's fault as they should have disqualified her from running in the first place; primarily for being an idiot, but realistically for working at a potential competitor."
"they do work for ccp, and get reembursed by free flights and hotels twice a year. they work for their pr department, while not as a \"registered\" employee but still do work on behalf of ccp for communication between their customers and ccp themselves, basically a customer service pr donkey.can you link us the \"internal information\" she leaked? i havn't seen that.anybody that thinks that the csm is doing anything else other than that is a complete blind numpty."
"no, they don't work for ccp as in no, they are not employees. and no, they aren't 'consultants' either. they are considered 'guests' having won a prize in a game.and no, i won't provide any links or supporting information. that is privileged, and even though i have no nda to adhere to, you monkeys don't deserve the details. before you complain and shout 'proof or stfu', ccp has been happily keeping you in the dark for years feeding you crap and you still latch on to it. all you need to know is that is what she did. if you had a clue you would do a little searching and come up with the legal measures filed. stupid numpty.regarding the csm, it was always intended to be a free trip to iceland to chat about eve, nothing more, nothing less. it was marketed under the guise of actually doing something to appease the player base, but as everyone in the industry knows, you don't listen to your player base. it would be like a farmer asking for advice from his cow - not ever going to happen. he might bring the cow into his house for some strangeness but never would make a decision influence by the cow.you can say m00 now. edit: oh and to retort your 'proof or it didn't happen' spew-age, she got bounced for nda disclosure which by definition means she disclosed privileged information. not surprisingly you fail to understand that simple concept but then again you are in hydra which does explain why you are incapable of doing so. not quite sure but it might have something to do with your alliance fixation on the 'seven rings of the dragon' or whatever you monkeys fap over....."
"so on one hand you say factually they leaked information yet on the other you cannot back it up.do you see the problem with your so called factual posting? if it has been leaked then it is already out there, so just direct me to it, unless. you cannot back up what you say.their legal issues are not my problem and not my job nor effort to enforce, if anybody has this so called leaked information, please direct us to it. nothing was leaked. you cannot back up what say."
"ummm, point of reference here...cows don't pay a subscription to be on the farm....just sayin'."
"if i give a beggar on the street a quid and my packed lunch, i'm not employing them to have asked me for a handout."
"well actually, she kind of did. the csm is a volunteer service that works on behalf of ccp to filter all the whiney on the forum into something they can present to ccp. part of this role means they are (very very minorly) involved in the development process. also, everyone exagerates on their cv, lord know's i do. my one day a week volunteering at a charity is bigged up to more than just stuffing letters into envelops and taking 3 hour lunch breaks."
"i want to know what was leaked, for someting being leaked its sure hard to find on the internet.nothing was leaked, by definition. if you claim otherwise, back up your statement. lord xsiv just is spouting about someting he knows nothing about. failed to back up his statement about the leak he aparently is an expert on."
"its sorta self describing acronym aint it? nda!and u got owned so badly here i was laughing my ass off:"
"moved from general discussion to assembly hall."
"just because you are too dumb to figure it out doesn't mean it isn't true.anyhow, go back to figuring out how to attain your sixth ring of the dragon master club or something."
"he stated he is not bound by an nda and claimed to be the expert on the topic at hand :) leak by definition means its leaked to somewhere, where did it go? deadspace?"
"this years's csm didn't bend over happidly like usual and a the result was a lot of bad press for ccp. as a result the marketing division of ccp did a bit of archeology into the blogs of the csm members, when they dug out some old leaked information on the most unpopular csm member they fired her.since then the other csm members havn't really been as critical as they were before, and the community didn't really care because everyone already hated ank.marketing divison scores."
"what was the leaked information, for all this huff puff, nobody seems to know but yet they act like they do.you state it was leaked on the internet, to a blog. please link that blog, if it has been deleted i can find it on the internet archive. that is, if it existed in the first place.the poster below me states it was leaked to her company, what was the name of that company please she worked for (aparently).so far in this thread you have stated 2 destinations of the leak, one to a blog on the very public interet, so show it please. and two, to the company she was working for, so name that company.see what happens when you act like you know the full facts? you will get questions that you cannot answer, why? because you know diddly.ps: i never broke quote tags, the last numpty to post broke them. i just replied :) not that i care what you think, i think i will break quote tags if it makes you cry like that."
"to the company she worked for (that isn't ccp), which they are understandably keep rather mum about. because if ank or that company did talk about it then ccp would be in prime position to drop a metaphorical ton of legal sh*t on their heads. also, learn to not break quote tags."
"nobody were ever told, well aside from it not being related to her csm blog."
"yeah but you should tell that to the experts posting in this thread that seem to \"know\" but cannot answer a simple question."
"you mean obvious troll? heh, don't feed him and he'll go away."
"that's right i do know diddly squat, wouldn't be much point in an nda if everyone knew about it now would there? but it's well within my mental capacity to make some educated guesses. firstly, the information she broke the nda with was not posted on a blog. this has been confirmed by at least two csm members on mutliple occassions. the only other logical choices, would be either a news company or the company she worked for. if the press had gotten hold of it then we would all definately know about it, thus it makes the company she works (or now worked) for the logical answer. i could, of course, be wrong. her blogs are here and here.or just stick to failing at scamming people in rens, that works too."
"well that is why were are the experts and you are a.....peon?as i said earlier, it is privileged information. which part of that don't you understand? just because you are a clueless nupty doesn't give you the right to demand 'proofs', 'links', or any other explanation that might consider you a logical entity in the discussion. the op asked what happened and i gave the tl'dr without having anyone's panties getting tied up in a bunch so to speak.anyhow, what is more interesting is the hydra thing that deals with rings, dragons, wack-a-mole and other 'fairy-like' fantasy role playing crap. ank is old news; she has (and is) being dealt with appropriately. that is all, you as a peon, need to know."
"milla... stop being ******ed.the point is not whether it can be proved or not... ccp doesn't give a crap what you think about that.nda's is their business.asking for proof is like asking me to divulge classified military data that was leaked by joe shmuck but to leak it would get me in hot water as well whether i know it or not.like i said... ******ed.give it up.besides... you got 10 fingers and a brain... go google it.i never liked ank anyway... good riddance."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.probably she was giving ccp trouble and said something wrong in her blog, so they got rid of her. no biggie. life continues."
"it was because she found out the truth about ccp's connection with the flying saucers at area 51."
"they still have the option to hire mercs (a lot corps will fight for free if you pay the dec fee) or fight the war-deccers themselves."
"1. i haven't been in the trade, but i don't know many/any \"mercenaries\" that fight for free.2. if they don't want to fight, they're not going to. since the deccers are likely looking for targets, they lose by deccing someone who's going to run. i'd consider it a victory escaping from someone who wants to blast my defenseless ship at every turn.i think the wardec mechanic needs an overhaul in general, but forcing people to endure griefing isn't it."
"not supported. as said above, you are war deccing a corp or alliance.i think if a corp is at war, there should be a 24hr window before a player can leave a corporation regardless of roles during war time, but not be a valid war target once he/she leaves the corporation."
"right now the csm is trying to work out some solutions to make ccp's mass testing on singularity more effective as well as making more people participate. i've created an unofficial poll to try to get a better handle on people's attitudes in my alliance, and i'd like to get the general population to answer the same questions as well. so please answer to the best of your ability. if there is a yes or no answer please say yes or no before elaborating."
"ok, will bite...have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? no. i have done my own testing on sisi though (i.e. pi).what role do you play in eve? currently 'smallcorp' (personal corp through other char), probably soon bigcorp, both highsec. been in alliance 0.0 as well.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? no. this character was primarily a miner. working on fixing that.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything n/a-sisi patching was too hard, gave up no, got in fine.-generally didnt care no-wasn't aware of it no-scheduled at a bad time yes. i work overnight, and also involved in daytime meetings. weekends are better for testing - why is it on weekdays?-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify) n/a-other please specifydon't normally qualify for the ships they need on test. i prefer to fly cruiser or smaller. also, each mirror is at the 'wrong' time and cba to spend the extra time monitoring the separate training.would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?max skills? no, that's over the top. *some* skillpoints (to allow an earlier char to train a bs/t3 and fittings), sure.reimbursement (or at least seeding) of caps/dreads and thier modules near/at the test area would be helpful as well.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?no. also, this could be clarified with an example.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?maybe. (originally i thought no, but started getting ideas...)if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?this would depend on what they planned to do (and the cost of the ship i was flying at the time), but generally no.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?just about everything, really.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes. i've done it for pi, since it was new and everyone was at around the same level.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?allow tracking of sisi training (externally) in some way, does not need to be api. something private within eve-gate perhaps.i'd be much more inclined to try new training experiments (if skillpoints were not handed out).--a"
"i have only participated in one testing session on sisi. where i spent more time waiting than testing, so i doubt i will do any more.the only thing that would change my mind is if i got a free tribble for testing."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident) big corpdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? yeswere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi? usually scheduled at a bad time-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-sisi patching was too hard, gave up-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad time-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)-other please specifywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps? whatever floats your boatwould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)? surewould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi? don't careif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)? if it means fixing things, yeswhat sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups? what?would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq? yesis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort? goats, lots of them"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident) smallcorp in highsec alliancedo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything false-sisi patching was too hard, gave upfalse, currently have sisi installed -generally didnt care false (care a lot)-wasn't aware of it sometimes-scheduled at a bad time the times i knew of them, yes-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify) never been-other please specifywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?max skills, hell no. a nice 20-or-so mil sp pool? yes. i would definitely make a much bigger effort to attend.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?not sure what this meanswould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?only a goon fc or chribba if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?i see no purpose of code injection. now, either you don't know what you're talking about, or i don't. however, i do think it would be a great idea for ccp to monitor (the same way they monitor on sisi) real fleet fights on tq.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?random ****would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes?is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?just want to emphasize the skillpoint pool on sisi as a reward, that would make me definitely show up for a test"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no.what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)i hang out with me, myself and i. we run bets to see who can count all stars in a system first, but myself keeps cheating, making up random numbers. drama ensues...do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?no. i'd rather not make them any bigger.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?none of those apply. i meant to go last time, but i cultivate the unfortunate hobby of poking my brain with a coat hanger through my ear, and sometimes i push too hard and pass out for a couple days.would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?the enticement of a nice - and permanent - collection of faction ships to play around with on sisi (as they did around the time of the tournament), would likely help me remember to not push too hard on the coat hanger next time, and thus increase the chances i'd show up.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?that's an idea... here's another one: remove all vowels from the english language. t wll ct dwn n slss typng.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?... errr... whooo??? sorry, not into cults. oh, unless you mean bringing on mel gibson to fc. that would be entertaining...if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?sorry again, i just spontaneously phased out of consciousness for a little bit there, missed your question. could you repeat that?what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?well, ccp better not test me for venereal diseases! would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?sure... but see above regarding a sisi collection of faction ships.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?have i mentioned faction ships yet?"
"hehe...sarcasm noted eldaec.as to the lag issues and stability this isn't as bad as it sounds mechanics wise. right now your ship utilizes weapons bonuses--often provided by supporting allies' ships. you get pluses for certain weapons or items equipped that turn on when powered up and turn off when powered down.a player crew should be thought of as an \"item\" which provides bonuses when present and online (just as equipment does).specific crew slots on ships and types for effect would have to be established. my thoughts simply as a thumbnail outline are the captain of the ship set's permissions and activations just as a ceo does for a corporation or a fleet captain does for fleet members.so let's say a ship holds four additional crew slots (think of them as a new form of rig). the ship's owning player would designate the roles for each other player filling these slots along with permissions and the like. he may approve one as an engineer, another as a navigator, another as a gunner and the last as drone pilot. these roles would be a standard and not created by players.for a more detailed example, let's say that the gunnery role allows the players gunnery skills to be utilized. the engineers engineering skills etc., etc. the captain could put these players \"online\" and 'offline\" just as he normally could equipment and he could also jettison their pods. the captain also could designate whether or not reputation and profit would be shared from missions or bounties. crew members could take themselves offline and jettison their pods at will. captains might also allow a crew member to control specified ship systems as in reloading weapons, initiating warp or operating ecm--whatever equipment was affected by their position. the crew player display would be a shared overview and having the \"look\" view available for the ship or other objects in space.the goal is to allow \"junior\" players to get involved with older players more quickly by selecting useful specialties that might let them get selected. the danger of spies is lessened by the captain's settings but not totally negated. they could give away position, pos/cargo codes, planned actions and even system info and the like. i think this would liven the \"real\" aspect a lot. traders could have characters on a ship to monitor trade hubs--a good job for an alt...give him some narrow combat skills along with the trading.we could debate all day about if ccp will do it, etc. but nothing to be gained from that convo. i just like the idea."
"vladimir your not the only one that would love to have co-op ships. ccp too would love this. they have tryed making something like this work on titians as that was going to be there role a kind of moble pos forward war station.but they ran into major problems with there programing on this so its way back on the logs now. labled as imposable to do as of right now becouse of all the programing that would be req in order to get this one thing in game.if eve is around for another 10-20 years this mite happen if they keep a small team working on it over the years or something i dont know."
"get rid of fleet finder!yeah that's right, remove that clunky, obstuse, useless little bugger. honestly it does absolutely nothing except alleviate some work on the part of fcs, wcs and scs in inviting people to fleet -- and at least half the time it isn't even used when it could be. a lot of people seem to think it may have something to do with the increase in lag -- personally, i'd just rip the thing out and leave it at that. while you're at it, revert the eve mail system to its pre-dominion state. it's laggy, buggy, overly complex and cluttered and really hasn't made anything easier at all compared to the old.while you're at that, change the market browser system thingamajig by either changing it so that lists are not auto-updated every time you make a transaction and instead require you to press a button to refresh. so when i go and type in an item and then the list of orders comes up, i can right-click on whichever and buy however many i need and that's that -- i do not need to be instantly and automatically informed that the number of items i bought has indeed been subtracted from the sell order i bought it from. while you're at that, change the fitting screen so that by default, all of that information on the right-hand side -- about your tank, speed, resistances etc -- doesn't show unless you specifically click a button or something saying \"i want to see all of this info\", and then load it then. tbqh i never look at this information because usually it's wrong or omits quite important information, such as the amount of capacitor generated by a cap booster or how much cap you use when you have some of your mods un-activated.i believe that doing these things could very well decrease a heck of a lot of information going back and forth between clients and servers. think about it; no more constant loot logging and hundreds of people looking at fleet adverts; no more thousands upon thousands of market query updates every second; no more thousands of fittings screens calculating stuff. this should increase both client performance and decrease server load."
"suported (on 1 condition)ccp gets off there asses and fills in the ded complex gapsie serp 5,6/10 plexes that are non existant"
"supported, but as dark drifter says, adding in the missing ded plexes would be a better solution."
"supported.. low sec needs to be more profitable!"
"i would only support this if you still had to find a system that was within jump range in normal space to your worm hole system.good luck with that considering there is no \"lore\" saying that w-space systems are anywhere close to new eden."
"reading the thread your final goal is to make it a clone of \"normal\" alliance 0.0. no, thanks."
"no it is not. i am perfectly happy with no gates and no local and no cynoing caps and no jump clones trust me. allowing covert cyno jumping within w-space would introduce a new dimension for pvp in w-space, without ruining what is already there.edit: blah wrong char again"
"no! if you dont like the scouted whs dont use 'em. cynos are for k-space"
"this i a repost from md forum. as seen here :"
"bumb ... sorry but i really thing ppl should pay attention to this. well traders / speculators mostly.even if these derivatives could not be traded as is, they could still be implemented somehow, simpler and down-to-eve.bond contracts given out by corporations or even alliances can be created too, covered by assets of course at a fixed percentage 30%-90% for example.loan contracts too, with the difference of these requiring fixed payments instead. who cares if they will not get used a lot, there will still be specific situation where they will be appropriate.for example, there may be 'locked' items in a 0.0 npc station that noone wants to buy. joe doe the banker though is not afraid to jump a freighter there and pick it up so he loans the guy out. why will the customer not just simply sell it? well, he may hope that one day he could use it again. or that he just had a fight with his former corp that lives there and he hopes that in 6 months time they will leave the place, who knows...in options/futures contract there will be risk involved because the collateral has to be kept low, say 1% - 10% of the total asset value on today's prices, it will be fairly easy for the seller (manufacturer) to forfeit the contract in case he finds the market price better at maturity. there is however always the possibility that the buyer will back down at the deadline, in that case the manufacturer get a compensation also percentage based, say 0,1% - 3%.but, that's where a 'new kind of blacklist' can come to force, entirely automated and filled with ppl, individuals and corporation that forfeited this new 'class' of contracts. a class that will require you to have trained skills on the new category called 'financial agreements', skills that will enable you to loan at progressively lower percentage-wise collateral, say 90% at lvl-1, 80% level 2 e.t.c.now imagine for a second that all those contract types are added to the game. and they involve so many choices regarding percentages, how far in the future e.t.c. how big a fee / collateral. big, trusted entities or individuals will ask to be loaned at better rates or for longer periods and vice versa they will loan only if highly secured.of course all these 'agreements' will be tracked by a 'financial exchange' mechanism of the game where the history of each entity will be visible to all much like the employment history that now exists... e.t.c."
"lol"
"plain and simple, corporations should not be able to surrender implicitly when leaving an alliance. this mechanic is far overused to save pos's in highsec from attack. its impossible to do any mercenary work related on the matter. for a wardec that costs 50 million isk when not engaged with anything at the start, only to watch as the corporation who was the designated target leave the alliance and get off scott-free with a \"corporation x has surrendered to you. we're sorry, but you have no choice but to let them go on their merry old game breaking ways.\"petitioning is not effective. for action to take place, gm's must have proof that the corporation has left the alliance to dodge the wardec, and only to dodge it, and it is only feasible to prove it if the corporation decides to rejoin the alliance. lucky for the scared weasels that can't defend their own assets, they are able to lie all they want to gm's to give reason that the leave was reasonable.so i come forward with a somewhat reasonable fix: corporations that leave an alliance during a declaration war should have an option tied to them of whether or not the attacking group would like to pay to append war rights to the defecting corp. group a attacks alliance b with corp c in it. c leaves alliance b. group a gets an option to war dec c instantly, (assuming they pay for the new declaration, and have one of their three slots open). this takes away the ability for a corp to dodge a pos loss by simply leaving alliance the instant it gets attacked, and having a full 48 hours to repair it, strip it of all items and leave a barren tower with nothing but defenses.bottom line: eve is all about risk and reward. if i pay good money to attack your pos, and you simply leave to cheat your way out of a loss, you are breaking the system. people who suicide gank someone cannot escape concord by just logging off. people who put their assets on display for the whole world had better be able to defend them. and if they cannot defend them, they should pay to defend them. and if they can't afford to defend them, then they don't deserve them.*flame suit on, ready for angsty war dodgers*"
"posting to support my own idea."
"why not just let declarations be able to overlap the cool-down so that you can declare as soon you see the surrender mail. with 24hrs to activation, by overlapping the aggression against the carebear pos can be continued uninterrupted minus any tardiness on the aggressors part.or;when declaring, and the target is a specific structure, let the declaration be against a corp at an alliance fee. if corporation drops then next bill is lower but war continues unabated .."
"not supported.nothing stoping you from wardecing the corp directly now.this is just a case of buro red ink over powering the sword. same thing happends in real life all the time i see no reson to change this in game. how can you call yourselfs warrors when crying over pen ink. so you have to wait a day or three before geting to spill more blood. get over it.edit: you dont even have to wait any time to gank the corp mebers. just fit up mister cheap fleet fit ganker and get them. you can make them pay for leaving to pass the time that you can renew your assult on the tower."
"^thishighsec wardec costs were already lowered to chump-change. why don't ccp just give you free kill mails instead? it's a multiplayer game, you don't get everything to go your way all the time."
"a: throwing a fit over 50mil isk - epic failb: failing to understand that you can re-wardec fleeing corporation - even worse fail.sorry pal... while your motivations are spot on... as well as your intended inclination.you got some serious holes in your thinking.and if you say you have too many war-decs... well that's your problem.and the above is very likely why the gm's don't bother much as it is."
"wow.um you seriously have to much emotional investment in this game. as a game there is nothing that will break it. if ccp were so inclined they could even allow you to blow up entire planets in a game. then you could have another game item made up of little 1's and 0's that reconstructed a planet anyway you saw fit. it's a game. nothing breaks it and certainly not my idea. what you're suggesting is a hypothetical result in which the players of eve abuse the system.if someone was going to abuse this system they would need to have direct contact with their victim. as such the victim's ship is already blown up in 99% of all hypothetical situations in which someone wishes to grief another player. i mean the entire point of griefing a player in game is to pop their **** all over space. why would you care to track them if you're already 5000m next to them?i would suggest that the only advantages this would have would be in clean up after a major fleet battle in tracking down anyone that wasn't scrammed. or possibly if they had an ecm and got away. basically you took my idea and decided it was a horrible idea because the people in eve online are horrible to each other...lol. i've been playing for about 3ish years. i fail to see how that has anything at all to do with this conversation. you just like to stroke your ego claiming your experience...ah that's not worth it.no my idea isn't horrible here is why.1) the restrictions on the weapon/tracking system makes it have limited use. not only that but as soon as someone docks the weapon is disabled.2) in your example in all cases if someone got within 5000m you are most likely dead. the exception to this is if you had an ecm burst (as most other ecms have a longer range than 5000m) 3) there are many many times in which one of the lesser peeps in eve online, we'll call them griefers, are for once out numbered. evading someone is a two way street. when they are outnumbered and out gunned they will run. this is just another tool to use. the idea that it will be abused is rather mute. as i said...it's a game. it is not built on the laws of physics...we can turn it into whatever we want. this is what i want. so kid...quit whining."
"my problem with the idea has to do with the fact that it's a \"lazyman's mechanic\" and that it stacks the odds of combat in favor of the aggressor/stronger opponent. if someone you have engaged gets out of point range and warps off to a gate, make an educated guess and follow them. if they warp off to a safespot... well... if you really want to kill them, get a prober out and start scanning. should the person elude you and escape, good for them. that person may be a chicken****, but he/she survived to fight another day.with your mechanic it becomes impossible to use evasion and skirmish tactics. \"whar'd he go eral?\"\"dun worry boss, i gots one shot on im. i be fleet warpin ta im in 5 secs.\"\"good job eral. i knew we could counts on ya.\"be a man, work for your prey!!"
"cute.... very cute.like the last poster said... stop whining and stop being lazy.you want to work for something great? how about making ccp fix the bloody game and not add new features for the next 6 months to a year...that's a great idea... try that on for size.we don't need any new features...we need stability..polishing....etc...this isn't a fix...this isn't a patch...this is an idea (poorly written might i mention) that changes mechanics...we already have a crapload of them that are screwy...no thanks.come back when you do some research and spend some time with people from various larger pvp alliances and then tell us its a great idea."
"sensible objections to this can be summed up as:1) op's proposal is at best vague. he makes no comment as to what the fitting requirements or skill pre-reqs of his homing beacon launcher are (hell, he hasn't put enough thought into this to give it a name). there is no provision in the proposal for what the skill levels of electronics upgrades are required for the fc / target.2) if the op's proposal does not allow for the tracked ship to be warped to directly a la probes, it is essentially pointless and already provided for by extant game mechanics - locator agents, scouts, pursuit.3) if the op's proposal does allow the tracked target to be warped to directly a la probes, it is game-breaking, renders probing effectively irrelevant, makes several tactics non-viable, and makes it beyond simple to hunt people down by firing a single shot at them.4) op's proposal makes no allowance for how this mechanic would deal with cloaked vessels.5) op's belief that if something gets within 5km of you, you are dead without ecm burst indicates the lack of experience with pvp tactics and situations previously commented on. gatecrashing, anyone?"
"i'd say it would be possibly useful and not op if this 'beacon' or whatever you tag them with just made them a lot easier to scan down.would be removed with repair/repackage, has stacking penalties, and does not work when cloaked."
"and add back in the 10 day warning timer"
"not supported.it's fun to see returning customers having to climb hurdles when it comes to renewing their subscription."
"when was this removed? and just drop a plex into your redeem items section. if your account should happen to expire, you can reactivate it yourself once you are ready to come back."
"+1keep consistency and leave the existing open cargo option, but allow people to drag and drop to/from the customs office straight in the customs office window.also, open customs office window button on overview.and i don't know if it's just me, but stop "
"perhaps a better way of handling it would be for drones to work in formations based on the grouping of the drones.let the server just deal with the coordinates of a formation and the clients spread the individual drones out around that formation coordinate."
"i love it when finnagain underscores my points through example. thanks finn!"
"of course it's a pvp game. i don't understand why anyone's arguing that it isn't.exibit a: an interview from a few years ago touching on the initial vision for eve and explaining why pvp is a core element of the game and not just an aspect of it."
"hi chi, thanks for the link. very interesting. i think you'll need something a tad stronger than that to claim eve is simply a pvp-game. emphasizing the importance of pvp versus pve is entirely consistent with a sandbox that fully integrates pvp alongside other activities. i don't think anyone on this topic has claimed that pvp is not an indispensable element to eve. moreover, this interview is from 2005, and you need to consider the changes to the game since then. i say this not to deny the importance of pvp, but to place it in context. delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"if eve was just simply a pvp game, why not do away with the whole mining/economy/sec status thing and just let people bash away at each other to the best of their skills? oh wait - if it has these other things then that means - taddah!! it's not just a pvp game afterall.guess the simple gets confused for the complex by the simple on these forums"
"nobody, anywhere, has said that the only thing you can do in eve is pvp. and the reason behind mining/the economy is so that players have to work to produce ships, and they therefore have value, so when you're popped and/or podded you feel it. it's the set of consequences and context that ccp designed in, purposefully, to make pvp richer. if you don't understand sec status's role in pvp, i'm not even sure where to begin."
"forgive me, but the way you - and others - carry on, a bystander would be under the impression that the only thing of any relevance in this game is pvp. if that is the case then many, many players are in fact wasting their time in this game.what you (and others) seem to ignore is that plenty of people play eve for everything but pvp. you could even make a realistic call and say that 75% of the player base couldn't give a toss about pvp, and would still play the game if it was restricted to just 0.0.i did a typo and put in sec status instead of system status (empire/low-sec/o.o). my mistake."
"maybe a particularly dense bystander. that's not my fault, though. i'm also not going to spend any effort explaining things to such a (hypothetical) brain donor. as for you not understanding how system security status factors into pvp, ah well. i'd point out that concord is punitive and not prohibitive, but meh."
"eve is a pvp game by default, because virtually all of the pve \"content\" is mind-numbingly dull. just sayin'."
"tbh, that is kind of my mental reaction whenever anybody says they pve in eve, only.\"why?!?!?\"the pve content is eve is absolutely horrible. there are any number of single player games that are much, much better. if you like grind play disgaea. if you like spaceship pewpew play freelancer or freespace 1 & 2. and so on.eve, (while the servers actually let you) has the best pvp of any game on the 'net, and after four years i still have my pulse spike and get an adrenalin rush every now and again when i engage a target.of course, we don't have any actual metrics on how many people live in 0.0, and how many live in empire. the best we have are 'screenshots' of character locations, which tell us nothing really. i have, iirc, four characters in 0.0 now and 10 in empire. judging player occupation/nature by the location of all chars in the game is simply loopy./$.02"
"last time i checked, i - and everyone else here - were not you (thankfully - what a sad world that would of been). stil,l doesn't seem to prevent you from shoving your sad little ideals about the game down everyone else's throat. and last i saw, there was nothing in the eula about playing the game in any particular style.though with that many accounts, maybe your view of the world is slightly skewed to the strange end of the spectrum. no wonder though everyone treats you like a joke ."
"ok, we've established that eve is a pvp game. can we get on to other subjects?some of what has happened in this situation is blind speculation. we really cannot know for certain what happened until ankh quits the game and posts the issues at hand, and ccp confirms.what we do know is that ccp has a track record of un-professional actions by members of it's staff. they work very hard to eliminate discussion of past transgressions that have actually come to light. and, one wonders what has occured that has never been known by the player base.is it possible that ccp may have taken action within a set of guidelines they interpret and created? yes. likely? we can only look at other companies, in any field, and see if the humans running them would take an action of that type to see if that is so.aside from pvp issues, or pve issues, we do need some sort of transparency from ccp on a number of issues. i can't see them changing their stance though. i for one would like to know that no employee of the company ever play eve during their employment. it opens the door for too many temptations to abuse their position. i would also like to see a mechanic in the game implemented to bring balance issues to the player base as a whole, one that can be viewed by all in terms of statistics of complaints, the type of issues people are concerned about as an entire community, and not simply the player base that decided to post on a forum buried somewhere inside a huge morass of other content and discussion.with ccp's track record of unbalancing the game through employee indiscretion, as well as actively seeking to eliminate any vocalization of these events, we as a community of players needs a better, and more open, sytem of management of our interests.i for one find very little wrong with the mechanics of the game, overall. there are some glaring exceptions, and these need to be addressed. ccp knows that adding shine to the game pads their wallet. i cant fault them for that. but, in the interests of keeping players in the long term, and cutting down on the amount of ad-space they need to buy from gaming magazines to keep new recruits in, working on the existing aspects to make the flawless game they are capable of, as well as eliminating the issues of mis-trust from the player base should be a prime concern."
"almost certainly will not happen. nda breach is a career-ending accusation and the fact that it's been weeks since ank's denial and promise of new information \"tomorrow\", it seems unlikely that she's got anything else to say. and ccp opens themselves up to legal damage/challenge if they release information that they do not have to. as for keeping devs away from understanding the game by playing it, that's a horrible idea. you want people to design and tweak a game they don't actually understand... because one dev, in the history of the game, gave one decent and a bunch of fairly lame t2 bpo's to his buddies. very bad idea. as is \"balance by complain frequency.\" balance doesn't mean appeasement, it means balance. if they were truly going to 'balance' piracy/suicide ganking with bears, they'd have to hugely boost the gankers. it won't ever happen, of course, but should they further nerf them just because one of the perennial whines is about how \"unbalanced\" those dreadful gankers are and how they need to be put in their place? trolling removed. zymurgist"
"dw  does pvp depend on industry? yes, i believe i acknowledged that. indeed, the two sides are interdependent on each other in ways that extremists on both sides of the fence refuse to acknowledge. can pvp exist without industry? no more than industry can exist without pvp without substantial changes.but still, you cannot push aside pvp as the core aspect of the game. yes, i acknowledge there are those who have no wish to engage in pvp. i would call those people willfully ignorant given the nature of the game. as i have stated before, player versus player goes beyond simple combat. it stretches into trade and industry as well. really, the only part of the game that has the least amount of pvp is mission-running  unless somebody comes in and takes your loot.i found myself pondering the sandbox definition as well today. a game that advertises itself as a sandbox needs give the players a great deal of freedom to do as they desire. eve succeeds at this greatly. and many of us (myself included), see the ability to shoot each other being tied to this. you cannot separate the two and call it a true sandbox. i believe those in the hardcore pve end of the spectrum realize this as well. is this why i see many of you clinging to the term cosmos instead? a convenient word you can use to spin the meaning of eve away from its true soul?but, i suppose that is away from the true purpose of this thread. afterall, were supposed to be discussing the removal of a certain csm no? a csm that i truly believe only became as big as she did because the extremists on the pvp crowd gave her attention she frankly didnt deserve. they might have been better served at keeping their mouths shut rather than opening them and making the pvp crowd look like a bunch of neaderthals. if anything, their extremist attacks only strengthened her position. and honestly, these people really should stay out of the politics of the situation and stick to what theyre good at  being the predators that make this game interesting to folks like me.as for the removal of ankh, it is my position that if she did breech an nda, then they are well within their rights to remove her, elected or not. our elected officials need to be held to the same standards as everybody else. to not remove her would send a message to the players that ccp is still not above playing favorites.should they reveal what the breech was? there is no need to do so. i find ankhs silence after all this time to be telling enough of her guilt."
"@ finnagain zero- the first thing i would like to point out is that you've been selective in what aspects of my post you chose to focus on.i should have been more succint when i was discussing a new format for players to assist in redressing balance issue"
"of course. why should i respond to things that i have no interest in discussing? what mysterious replacements? titans have been petitioned and returned, iirc, but there was never any form of stealth replacement. as for moo, come on. that was, what, 7 years ago now? the only actual events you have to point to were t20 and a public and obvious decision that the devs made to deal with moo, that they later regretted and haven't duplicated in more than half a decade. there are plenty of valid complaints to lay at ccp's feet without breaking out the tinfoil. you've invented a fantasy \"extremist\" in order to construct your argument. quote one pvper, anywhere, honestly saying that their ships are created by magic and that nobody has to build them. pvpers, in the main, understand exactly what role industry serves. all, absolutely all of the substantive \"attacks\" on ankhybonkeybonkers relied on her own words, her own beliefs, and her own actions. all. nothing was \"extremist\". and, it turns out, people were absolutely right. she had some major damage that caused her to be unable to differentiate real life and actions taken in a video game, she was unstable and unable to work with others, and eventually she stepped so far out of line that ccp removed her. those of us who warned the community about her were right. those who voted for her were not only wrong, they hilariously made sure that instead of a \"hardcore carebear\" that they wanted to elect, the person who actually fills that seat now is from pandemic legion."
"i'm beggining to wonder if ccp created a ficticious nda breach so they could get anhk out of the csm and into their damage control team. :) if only i'd voted for myself eh. i have more accounts than the difference between mine and mynx's vote counts - and i was the more obvious \"care bear\" choice right :)"
"bet the lawyers are going to have a field day with you - especially considering that you are making adverse reputational and personal aspersions about a person whose name, profession and nationally are widely known here.just goes to show what sort of a very stupid person you really are finnagain. i hope you get torn a new one by her lawyers."
"it's possible but ultimately very unlikely. an nda breach is just about as serious a charge as you can make in the games industry, like alleging a doctor never actually finished med school or an accountant is skimming money off the top. if ccp had invented an nda breach, ank would have been able to prove it and would have had a massive lawsuit against them. barring some truly weird circumstances, it sure seems that ank did something to merit dismissal.heh, that'll teach you not to take full advantage of every single facet in eve online i do think, of course, that there would've been some much better choices that ank's voters could have made, which would have still resulted in dedicated 'bears on the council (who would have, also, kept their seats). in the end, the people who voted for her did so with their eyes open, the facts on the table, and the utter unsuitability of their candidate clear. they cut their noses off to spite their faces, so they could say \"nyeh nyeh pvpers, you can't make us do anything!!! not even if you're backed up by facts, logic and common sense! you you you... griefers!!!\"tactical error, it turned out."
"oh please, i didn't invent anything here finn. extremists exist in every walk of life, doesn't matter which creed, religion, political party, or eve play-style you belong to. its just a fact of the human condition that such people exist. even you, with the exaggerated style in which ive watched you attack peoples posts, come off as one of them. it doesnt matter if this is what you truly are as its the image you are projecting. sure, ankh said these things. however, its my view that having personalities extremely unpopular with the hardcore bear crowd denouncing her did more to help her campaign than hurt. if for no other reason, than to watch those who profess how they like to watch others cry over internet spaceships get all teary-eyed themselves. delicious irony such as that would be great giggles to a vengeful carebear.i will concede you this point; you are right in that pvprs in general do acknowledge they are dependent on the industrialist. i think most of them just want the same acknowledgement from the industrialists in return. indeed, i see events such as hulkageddon as a awakening to that branch of the community that they too must take their turn in the great cycle."
"i haven't \"exaggerated\" anything in anybody's post. and even if you believe i \"come off as an extremist\" in your personal approximation, that still doesn't make me one. the \"pvp extremists\" are as real as the \"pvp fundamentalists\" and are both just created as rhetorical crutches. the same with ank's campaign; nobody was crying about anything. and as you've admitted: their charges were accurate and your earlier claim about \"extremist\" attacks is spurious. unless, of course, you're misusing \"extremist\" in the same sense you're misusing it where i'm concerned, that is to mean \"someone/something i do not personally care for.\" but that's not a very good definition.further, the fact that people voted for her despite her manifest unsuitability, and all the facts on that score being clearly laid out, is their fault. and they got what they deserved. the universe has a sense of humor sometimes. this is the point. pvpers, by and large, don't object to people 'bearing (in fact, many pvpers have to bear from time to time to make the isk they need to shoot stuff), they do object to people who create accounts in a pvp game (eve online) and then go bonkers when they find out that there is pvp in this pvp game. people like the late and unlamented csm delegate who so confused reality with fantasy that she thought people who blow things up in a video game were actual sociopaths, since someone who blows things up in real life would have to have something wrong with them."
"you should run for the csm - all of their posts get created, then edited over with \"nvm\" when they remember the futility of it all."
"can i suggest some of you read this:missing eve economy discussion in it the csm 5 meeting?"
"i deleted my post because it provided zero information. i'm quite sure that the csm is busy enough championing our issues, so i don't want them to waste time on replying to my bs"
"your admiration to a lost cause is to be admired. i'm sure though that they are championing their own perks and game status more than anything else. self-centredness and player abuse seems to be the hallmark of csm5 in this (and many others) humble opinion."
"you seem to forget that the way the csm is comprised, if it has nothing to do with fleet fights and lag, it's really not worth mentioning .if you want something else in this game other than 0.0 lagfests, then this is not the game for you."
"is it wrong to have an e-crush on virt? i'm surprised you didn't mention this at the summit, as it might have been interesting to include in your presentation some quotes for perspective from the csm side of the mirror.but whatever. the thing that's on my mind is the fact that ccp's dev planning meetings are scheduled for 18 august. this is presumably when stakeholder priorities are championed when competed against the priorities of all other stakeholders. because of the current existing limitations on the workflow, communicative, and prioritization processes for csm-ccp interaction, we really need you there to be the csm champion.yet...you'll be at gdc on the 16th giving your presentation. then the gamescon business meetings are 18 august. are you planning to attend those or will you be returning to iceland so that you can champion csm issues at the dev meetings? or...have the dev meetings been rescheduled and i just don't know about that yet? considering how many ccp folks are likely to be at gdc/gamescon, should they be rescheduled for a time when more of the key players will be available to provide input and champion their priorities?update: just got an email stating that ccp diagoras will be there instead of petur at the dev planning meetings. wtb: more mohawk championship!"
"\"player councils in mmos: useful tools or waste of time?\"cool - do we actually get to vote on this like we did the game of the year awards? i've been looking for the button to register my vote for \"waste of time\" but couldn't find it .still, what a good anagram for the clowncil of stellar management .... csm - wot."
"now there is an interesting event - as far as i know the product owner is responsible for managing the decision making process in scrum, so i guess it's up to his due dilligence who gets involvedrelated thread:"
"you are not apologizing. you are blaming people to misconstrue how you do refer to them as \"tools\". for ccp, the customer isn't always right?csm actions is yet another form of user generated content you do earn your daily bread with.or you don't earn your daily bread with, depending on how well you can guarantee quality of gm specific user generated content.\"i'm sorry to reply to your request after three weeks, i've forwarded your request without result for now, may i close this issue nevertheless?\" for example is nothing one would expect from professional customer care.what you should study is quality assurance measures across the communication pathways of parties [management,development,csm,users} and identify single points of failure.you might benefit way more doing that than referring to csm in a way which can be perceived as \"that's some kind of riot control stun gun\".we are paying customers, not terrorists who must get \"tooled\"."
"very interesting...."
"someone said something like \"what is the purpose of a player council anyway... flying them to iceland ....has any company ever listened to them ....\"i have searched and browsed all the relevant threads, but i cannot find it again.i'll reply anyway: yes, it's called a \"user group\" or \"user interest group\" and while they are a pain in the butt to manage they provide invaluable information. all successful software products have them, why should an mmo be so different?i'm turning into a \"virt\" fanboi as well :)"
"as someone who helps run a corp comprising of a large inflow of \"newbs\", i have to say that what has been said about representation for newer players on the csm is something that does need to be addressed. looking at it (and having had some experience in swg in their profession based system way back when), leaving out the majority of your player base is a recipe for disaster.whilst i can appreciate what finnagain zero says, i do not agree with him. many people come to this game having played other mmo's in the past. i know for myself that we have \"new eve players\" who have been playing mmo's since the days of mud. to say that these people cannot bring anything to eve is a very blinkered view of peoples abilities.even veterans of the game (i have been playing since 2004) can still be considered nubs in a lot of things. i know that there are still plenty of things in this game that i have yet to try - and that's even after all these years playing. and on the reverse side of the coin, i have corp members who after a couple of months in game, are as good as, if not better than, people who have played the game for years.to restrict the membership of the csm to just a small subset of the player base does defeat the purpose of the council for stellar management. if it is not representative of all players, then it will only ever be of interest to the few."
"but people must first see your perspective. so far all we have from your posts is the mental picture of you sticking crayons up your nose and asking if you resemble a popcicle. if you wish to be relevant to a discussion, then post something relevent. otherwise, gtfo."
"may i suggest completely re-ordering the entire marketplace section, rather than patching it up.it's a complete mess atm wading through everything when you're looking for a particular thing.* create a \"player services\" section for those running services * relabel \"sell orders\" into something a little more intuitive like \"wanted to sell\" ... and the same wtb for that matter.* remove price check - there's almost zero reply/activity in there* possibly create a general \"market bazaar\" to bucket anything that don't fit into the categories. the lotteries can go into this."
"ashina sitothe weapons and ships of eve are already pretty well balanced. the fact that we only have one sub group of about what ?30? that people agree needs a boost demonstrates this. same with afs as a subclass of ships. when we include all the different types of ship classes and sub classes there are about what ?25? balanced classes and sub classes. now think about eve as a whole. how many different scenarios can you pvp? you can pvp for the following reasons:1) for sov 2) just for fun  no real background necessary3) because youre a merc or a griefer4) pirating or taking poses in whs for profit 5) fw occupancy6) some other reason the first 4 reasons to pvp will often lead to the same strategy to win: lets form a big fleet and blob anything that gets in our way! now there are exceptions. but in general i see this as the biggest reason of how eve can get stale. this strategy is a good strategy to win the first 4 scenarios.fw offers a war scenario where it could be a better strategy to actually break up your blob and go out in multiple smaller gangs to plex for occupancy. but the current occupancy plexing mechanic is garbage so no one does it. hence eve pvp always resorts to the same old formula for success. blob for the win. now im not complaining too much. the actual battles (when you actually get something close to even  which is imo too rare) are tactically complex, and allot of fun. also there is an art to forming a good gang no doubt. both aspects are great in eve. but you rarely have a situation where you say lets break up our large gang into many smaller gangs because we have multiple important places to be at the same time. fw and or some other low sec development could facilitate that. this i think would be a real breakthrough for eve.in other words its much more important to have even a single new pvp dynamic, than it is to add a 31th competitive weapon system or a 26th new subclass of ship."
"well, look on the bright side, august 10 at gdc alli ottarsson from ccp is going to explain it all."
"but bitter suck up is still bitter"
"as opposed to player support growing as they become more effective . didn't realise that the csm was all about innovative new ways of putting carts in front of donkeys."
"get off your ass ccp and fix ****.... one of my closest friends quit today cause shes tired of dealing with all the **** thats come to past thanks to your poor level of management or interest in the matter."
"seems i already supported it :p"
"ccp take a 6 months bug fix and don't deliver us a new extension !we want existing bug out no more new stuff !you will no more attract people with extensions cause there is now too much bug active !"
"87 pages and not a peep from ccp. they obviously really care about their customers."
"supported"
"87 pages!!! ^_^supported"
"supported!"
"87 pages of cries for fixes and it all gets ignored. :("
"bleh"
"supported"
"well, a friend in uk pointed me to this article that explains exactly why eve is being left to rot at the moment and why dust is being jammed down our throats."
"yes, supercarriers should be bigger than dreads :)"
"make my epeen bigger"
"yeah, supporting this."
"i support this idea, mostly in the fact that those field css need a boost. making them fit the role of 'small gang cs' as opposed the the fleet css' 'fleet gang cs' would be a good way to increase their usefulness.oh, and get their hull on par with tier 2 bcs (slots, pg/cpu...)"
"supportedwould love to take some of these out for a spin but the cost/quality tradeoff vastly favors bcs, as the op states."
"these are all small things that probably wouldn't take that long to be dealt with if ccp were actually spending time and resources on \"fixes\" and improving the game..."
"unfortunately my out-of-game friends who i play eve with are too risk averse to set foot outside high-sec after years of carebear conditioning in their drakes and ravens i have absolutely no problem with 0.0 having all the juicy loot, it just leaves a bitter taste in my mouth that my advice to new players when it comes to highsec exploration is almost (but not quite) \"radar, or keep looking\""
"well tbh player 0.0 if you are in a decent alliance is almost as safe as high sec. anyway...yeah i can understand that, but it's hardly a \"site\" problem... it's just that the market decided that most rig components are worthless and only some 3 or 5 components are worth something...a little rebalancing would be hard to do and would upset the market balance anyway..."
"\"ignore scan result\"most used option for me in lowsec. i've done a dozen and every time i did one i asked myself why i did it."
"completely agreed; i have done many of these sites, and every time i come away nearly empty handed."
"yep, no doubt about it, they suck.i've heard of people occasionally getting the talocan/takhmal/whatever technology skillbooks from the nullsec sites, though i've never seen them. best take is like a racial decryption methods skillbook and one or two near-useless t2 rig bpcs.i don't do them anymore, they take a while and they're usually junk. i don't even finish scanning them down."
"blazde,166,165,156,153,138,108,90,79(and 53 is the same),73,34,26(*),25,17,13,3oh man there's a lot of dreamy stuff in the full list i'd love to see in eve in the future but i've stuck with urgent and/or easy, and non-controversial fixes/enhancements. only major item in there i think is '108 overhaul of roles and grantable roles system' and actually i'm a little bit concerned that ccp don't get persuaded into tackling that and then not give it the proper attention it deserves. if it's going to be done half-assed i'd rather it stay as it is for now.* also honourable mention for '2 accessibility focus group' though it seems like something that needs player initiative more than ccp initiative. at least ccp can fix the simple accessibility problems like zoom.btw a huge number of these 168 items are small ui enhancements. it would be really good if there was just a dev team permenantly iterating on the ui and just ticking these off instead of them having to be wrapped up in big headline expansion features with the last minute corner cutting that usually involves."
"yeah some of the issues were already implemented, while sorting the mess csm part of the wiki was, its not hard to slip a mistake here or there. thanx for voting everyone."
"lucy midnight,5,7,8,10,14,16,37,39,48,53,79,104,102,103,105,109,112,138,139,164"
"damara,49,51,52,111,138,148,161,160,7,10,66,134,40,100,23,32,48,151,5,14"
"balthazar damner,19,25,33,35,38,58,62,69,76,78,79,83,105,108,115,120,122,138,153,162"
"eukleides,50,54,99,102,105,111,112,113,133,134,138,144,10,47,57,75,110,135,143,167"
"newtonne,50,54,99,102,105,111,112,113,133,134,138,144,10,47,57,75,110,135,143,167"
"pajama sam,6,9,12,12,15,16,21,31,33,34,35,45,48,53,69,79,113,116,132,168"
"krickettt,14,33,39,43,45,67,69,100,102,109,135,166,168"
"shahfluffers, 12,14,19,21,23,24,30,31,32,34,35,43,45,48,53,54,57,58,63,67"
"comodore john,19,30,54,67,80,97,106,108,110,113,116,127,138,156,69,3,120,134,136,105"
"jasonkuehn,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"xearal: 7, 10, 14, 17, 32, 51, 52, 94, 103, 106, 108, 109. 110, 111, 112, 127, 134, 151, 164, 167"
"nopsi,pick#38,pick#39,pick#40,pick#107"
"dopesuxx,#34,#14,#86,#53,#1,#17,#3,#6,#7,#8,#9,#15,#37,#39,#41,#67,#97,#102,#109,#164"
"ixecutor,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"fix the lag ...you money grabbing *****esthanks"
"fix dominion prior to add more.dominion bug for upgrade."
"raff barloh - 24,38,39,40,43,97,99,109,132,138,164,167also fix finnaly the compressionjob handling with rorqual"
"sonoflothar #17,#19,#34,#38,#40,#48,#59,#66,#77,#80,#99"
"artemis shadow,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"cmdr prometheus #17,#19,#34,#38,#40,#48,#59,#66,#77,#80,#99"
"kael shaddar,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"heron saal,pick#1,pick#3,pick#14,pick#49,pick#75,pick#84,pick#96,pick#102,pick#105,pick#109,pick#110,pick#112,pick#113,pick#135,pick#136,pick#138,pick#154,pick#164,pick#165,pick#166"
"melah tasnu,14,21,38,39,40,86,99,104,107,117,7,11,12,56,66,86"
"lthunter,16,38,39,40,75,99,107,108,122,131,133,149"
"mangala solaris, #19, #20, #40, #43, #45, #51, #52, #108, #164, #167, #168"
"serratedx,pick#16,pick#23,pick#28,pick#34,pick#61,pick#63,pick#69,pick#134"
"norath84,8,14,19,25,34,39,47,49,69,86,87,97,100,107,109,111,112,122,126,165,"
"rainus max: 10,12,32,33,34,38,40,47,55,56,90,97,100,106,107,113,116,122,136,164main ones being: 33,40,100"
"irumani,7,11,14,16,17,33,34,35,39,49,87,105,108,114,134,138,149"
"thanks so much for sharing your opinions on how to prioritize issues, everyone. it adds a lot of weight to the priorities that csm submits to the devs when we can say that players helped significantly to define those priorities.gratz to trebor for being awesome in leading the charge with this approach and writing the little programs he uses to parse the feedback."
"peter tjordenskiold,34,37,38,39,108,19,23,69"
"irongut,14,15,23,75,79,85,97,109,113,134,138,139,156,157,166"
"cailais: #23,#100,#51,#63,#111,#76,#33,#34,#17,#132,#19,#45,#48,#69,#138,#167,#83,#43,#1,#60.c."
"aralyn cormallen - #8, #7, #14, #15, #16, #21, #28, #34, #47, #48, #66, #69, #100, #113, #115, #129, #134, #136, #137, #164"
"thebriwan,17,33,34,36,39,40,54,56,69,90,108,109,115,130,132,134,138,140,141,163and additionally: add an warning window when canceling an order!"
"shinzann, pick #1,#3,#6,#8,#9,#11,#17,#19,#23,#33,#34,#39,#40,#149,#138,#139,#84,#56,#97,#152"
"asura cascade,6,14,15,16,17,19,33,34,45,47,56,61,92,113,115,138,142,151,164,168"
"hawza,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"1winged angel,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"kurotsuchimayuri, 7, 8, 14, 22, 33, 34, 38, 53, 74, 84, 105, 113, 127, 129, 135, 138, 146, 164"
"bucky o'hair pick #61, pick #62, pick #63, pick #64, pick #60, pick #19, pick #137, pick #8, pick #14, pick #112, pick #168, pick #105, pick #67, pick #53, pick #53, pick #58, pick #39, pick #33, pick #34, pick #35, pick #76good luck!take no prisoners!edit: forgot to approve this message"
"nick bison, 1, 7, 24, 39, 45, 100, 101, 106, 108, 132, 147, 151, 161, 167side note: thanks for working on this, that and the other things we all want or would like in eve. i will keep my fingers crossed"
"ga'len, 8,14,5,17,21,35,40,86,88,96,97,122,131,134"
"cretten 1,15,22,84,92,113,134,158,149"
"4, 10, 23, 50, 97, 127, 132, 135, 138cant believe you have fix rockets but not blasters!!!"
"rokkit kween, 78, 79, 22, 4, 9, 100, 102, 122, 108, 134, 53, 39, 34, 8, 88, 103, 105, 110, 111, 135"
"fluffythecarebear,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"pick #37, #48, #112, #113, #116, #133, #168"
"this should be in gd, not ah.c."
"javer,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"guilliman r,pick#34,pick#33,pick#69,pick#110,pick#167,pick#1,pick#14,pick#16,pick#23,pick#28,pick#46,pick#47,pick#55,pick#87,pick#88,pick#98,pick#96,pick#104,pick#114,pick#132"
"kim wilde,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"thzlou. 1, 4, 5, 8, 14, 15, 16, 31, 48, 66, 67, 76, 92, 104, 115, 122, 127, 134, 136, 168."
"damaclease,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"beta babe,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"simon boon,7,19,22,33,34,47,48,51,52,69,100,111,113,124,136,142"
"strawberrypocky,13,15,19,25,27,32,34,35,43,45,67,113,136,154,156,157"
"mythras, 15,37,38,39,40,47,50,51,97,99,107,109,111,113,131,138,147,151,164,167"
"sabua pick 8,14,22,33,39,45,50,132,137,164,167,154,46,47,53,55"
"yendor widdershin, 34, 51, 52, 151, 167, 15, 31, 33, 57, 74, 147, 70, 73, 17, 40, 108, 41, 42, 84, 138note that 57 & 74 have already been fixed -- these are the gallente pvp storyline missions. i put them in because i think however it's worth reminding ccp not to make major changes without testing them first.also, these include duplicates. pointing out, as if anyone wasn't sure, that ccp has ignored things repeatedly brought up by csm, and even when they get fixed there's no formal process to say \"we finished issues x, y, and z\""
"lubomir penev,7,19,66,69,77,79,80,84,90,97,103,105,156,165i went only for realistic, no excuse not be done asap targets, even if lots of stuff involving more serious work could be done from that list. a great number of those are quick ui fix.not holding my breath for any of those being fixed within 12 months..."
"jengi gotsen: 1, 3, 13, 14, 19, 38, 39, 67, 69, 76, 89, 97, 99, 102, 108, 111, 113, 129, 134, 167"
"doorsdown, 11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"declin mactire, #69, #90, #111, #115, #139, #164, #62, #63, #58, #53, #32,"
"arboreal feline,19,69,83,100,111,112,113,120,122,131"
"nakkano,1,4,8,16,79,96,136,160,139,127"
"#14 is already on sisi btw."
"locin weeda,1,6,14,17,25,33,40,41,77,78,84,89,93,96,101,108,111,167,15"
"xeross155,51,52,56,67,149,164,167,31,4,5,8,15,17,18,90,97,99,100,108,138"
"judy spark, 1, 3, 17, 19, 31, 33, 34, 36, 39, 53, 56, 86, 127, 160, 168"
"draco selen: #34commit to excellence"
"lag, fleet lag, lag everwhere, more lag??????your list is incomplete"
"mongo edwards: 19, 23, 24, 25, 45, 47, 51, 52, 59, 69, 63, 75, 120, 132, 167, 105."
"5, 8, 16, 19, 97,98, 103, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 115, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 129, 131, 136, 139,147, 149,151, 155, 168"
"sting122 #8 #9 #10 #14 #19 #23 #34 #53 #55 #71 #93 #112 #127"
"cheeba don: 10,12,32,33,34,38,40,47,55,56,90,97,100,106,107,113,116,122,136,164"
"orosono,34,33,39,14,112,67,21,27,23,80,87,103,10,32,77,156,152,154,86,12"
"skinsin,3,6,7,14,15,28,33,34,45,47,54,55,56,57,69,74,95,147quite disappointed that the csm hasn't also brought up fixing blasters and rails - couldn't see it in the list."
"adriaans, 6, 7, 8, 12, 14, 19, 21, 23, 34, 53, 98, 132, 168 and where the heck are low-sec proposals!?!"
"rakshasa taisab,12,30,55,82,102,110,111,115,127,160"
"jake too,6,8,12,14,16,21,35,39,48,66,96,107,115,134,136,138,154,156,159,164,166"
"tim golan - 8,14,24,34,38,39,40,97,99,107,108,109,111,132,138,149,164,167"
"eleria orion,38,39,40,107"
"seamus donohue,3,7,8,45,55,57,74,111,113,121,122,123,137,138,5,33,34,112,133,134"
"in before ccp forgets about fixing the lag again and instead invents ai constructed lotterys into the game as massive isk sink.oh and supported :p"
"i wholeheartedly support this endeavour."
"this is largly a implementation of the swg bounty system, it needs more itteration from everyone but as player who litterally deadicated years to this system (me) in swg; this is a good first draft - obviously there are issues; lets work through them. just to clarify - this statement implys we some how fudge our kb. wrong. our killboard is api fed its always been api fed, every single kill and loss goes on unless the loss is to a npc; this is fairly standard practice. if you find any that arnt on there, mail me in game and i will fix it - shouldnt be the case due to the api however - (deaths and kills prior to the api being implemented are some what out of our control - and i wont post anything thats not api varified).admittedly not posting losses with npcs might be slightly fraudulent due to us having suicided a lot recently, however that was for hulkageddon and i couldnt be arsed changing it - having said that we havent made carreers out of suiciding - thats been a very recent thing brought on by a in game event. now getting of the subject of damts kb and to get the thread back on track.... /bump for a good idea that needs some work"
"this would add consequences to killing noobs actually."
"still no refute as to how any bounty hunter is gonna get through your corp's or any other pirate blobs. even your 20-30 most recent kills and losses r not api verified, which means u still posted your friendly fire kills manually. therefore, u \"fudge\" your killboard and even lie about it."
"signed!"
"signed!!!!"
"signedccp identified bug"
"signed"
"i confirm that exploration and mini profession in rogue drone region is higly bugged.i even think that the random generator of drone region exploration isn't the same than other region i'd been living.as previously linked by yeah ccp seems aware of the problem, could you manage to lobby for us and made ccp spent some man day to fix the issue.thanks in advance for your support on the council.regardstrig slidus"
"like i said, getting multiple clones in a station should be an easy fix. seeing as all my complaints were removed from the proposal, i'll be supporting."
"krickettt,14,22,25,52,53,54,56,71,79,84"
"marcus vorenius; 6,8,13,35,38,42,45,53,77,80i doubt it - there is nothing entertaining where i'm highest when i bend down :)"
"don't be so pessimistic -- there are precedents for the popularity of posterior entertainment."
"hmm, okay yes impacts on rats will be soundless if they are too far away, that is pretty much the same issue as with explosions.launching missiles works for me currently, i will retest, and try with different missiles and launchers.hybrids are probably comparable to projectiles in terms of sound coding, so i think all turrets are still fixed for now :p"
"can be usefull."
"as a ceo who has had his corp ripped off several times, i too am annoyed with the inability to track thefts. the only way to even begin to theorize who has stolen is to run multiple member searches to weed out those who have access, but for general hangars it does nothing. a change log would be excellent, i however dislike the concept of making this a skill based thing.up: corp hangar change logs for all hangars in all forms, perhaps with an api feed.down: skill related \"decrypting\" (unless it allows for someone without access to eliminate the log thus allowing for some legit gaming)"
"it would be nice to be able to track changes to selected corp hangars. even if it wasn't to track corp thefts, it would be nice to see who is grabbing corp ships."
"scuse me? i wasn't saying you don't need to know whose stolen what.hell i had a director who got his account hacked... i would love nothing more than to beat the ever living #### out of the guy who stole our directors stuff and my corp assets.so please... don't misunderstand me when i say i'm in favor of finding out who/what for the interest of logging.my main point however is i initially thought you where griping about the theft.theft is a normal way of life in eve... can't stop it... but nothing should stop us ceo's/director's from tracking down the jerk who did said act."
"named micro auxiliary power cores are expensive, meta 3-4 are very expensive so i'll assume you talk about t1 versions.so.. an advise, check before giving advices."
"actually, reactor controls give a percentage pg bonus. aux power cores give a flat 10 pg (more for the meta 1-4). for a rcu 2 (15%) to kick out an extra 10 pg, the ship would have to have about 68 pg to start with. aux power core wins on sub-cruiser fits."
"i'm also looking forward to incarna. i love strategy games and have played them since i was seven years old and they were board games with cardboard units and took hours or weeks to finish. i love space fighter games and have played them since privateer and tie fighter. i also love science fiction which is what got me into gaming in the first place and as a scifi and gaming fan am at a loss as to how this small core of extremely vocal negative players can see incarna as \"destroying eve\". it adds another layer and potential to it. when dust and incarna and the like are all laid as foundations i have no doubt more effort will go back to improving the million little details that need attention.my impression as a newer player reading through the forums is there is a big group of eve pvpers who feel having monster gank-fests with their friends is the only reason to be here and it isn't.you can play eve and stay out of stations. the fact that others might enjoy them is a plus and doesn't hurt you a bit. i really feel this is all about control and fear that new features might be ones you can't dominate so you don't want them. play for fun and stop worrying if others might have some you can't dominate. it's a game. stay in space if you don't want to interact in stations. if incarna comes out and increases lag and instability, then hey, you got a point then...but that hasn't happened yet. why don't we wait and see?fyi, ccp is a business and it makes sense they test the waters--is what allows you to play in the first place. nothing wrong with immersion either--particularly in a scifi game in space. otherwise they might as well just make it a turn based, weekly tournament for fleet battles and solve all your gripes. play cod if you don't want any immersion and strictly think its just about killboards."
"bore off i can use whatever words i want to describe eve so i dont think a stubborn comment like that is gonna make a difference"
"it being present may not hurt us but it doesn't really help either. thats the point. it's pretty much a seperate game. the problem is when ccp indicates they have allocated 80% of their development resources to \"seperate\" games like incarna for the next 2 years. that means our game will be stagnant for a long time. i'm not saying ccp shouldn't do this. but they also shouldn't expect the people who currently play eve to be thrilled about it. strutting around in a station in different wardrobes is not what many who play eve are looking for. if it was they would have likely picked a different mmo to begin with."
"this right here is a great point, so many developers are being used to develop what many believe is essentially a test for the world of darkness game."
"this proposal is for a new ship class. the ship class is for a holo ship. the holographic ship is a type of recon ship or another type of ship, i'm not sure yet.idea 1:the ship can disguise itself by using holo emitters around the hull to project another ship. either next to the ship or disguise the ship itself.idea 2:the item can be used by any ship that has enough cpu/powergrid. there will be restrictions though.idea 3: the item/ship will hide by making you look like a npc rat or something static, like an asteroid."
"a cloak does all of these things, but without the \"flavor\".stick to the cloak."
"a hybrid does the same as a laser, it kills.sure, this does the same but in a different way.the idea is not to hide but tell give false intel to your enemy"
"there are some interesting things that could probably be done if a player ship can be disguised like a completely different kind of player ship.supported in principle."
"0.0 carebear tears, best tears, c/d ?"
"definately need to find a way to get more devs out into the fights, if they're sharing in the bloodlust they'll definately be ****ed when a reinforced node crashes with just over 500 people in system."
"devs don't even want to develop the game, never mind play it."
"i thought most of the devs still played eve, guess not, supporting this"
"beautiful idea, it would be great if it had a corp hangar, affectively make a corporation sized mobile station :d"
"how many times you've done a fleet and even with loot history, you can't stop that little moron to loot everything on the field (while your still shooting war targets). it seems like he got loot salvaging level 5.true we got loot history and you can yell, whine, scream, emo, rage quit and argue with the guy who took your loot to give it back...if he ever does. so, how about a feature in fleet that prevents anyone in your fleet to not open a wreck...excluding salvaging.this should be totally optional as some buddies can be trusted...others not. once the fc activates that feature anyone can take loot. with that feature he could decide who can take loot or not since it could be a right clicking items in a menu once you right-click on a fleet member.advantagemore control over who takes what lootif someone dies you could easily give him some loot since he lost his ship...then you activate looting for everyoneno more stealingdisadvantageprobably more whining and rage since fc will finally have control over the looting. history is good but not enough. this is eve, its not pink and fluffy"
"and that stops my neutral alt in a frigate from looting how?this sounds even worse than the complains from the privateers guys.not supported."
"secret word here is fleet. ok. fleet members only.go ahead with your neutral alt on a gate after a fight and go loot. be my guest. the feature i'm telling here is for fleet members only.ps: if your a neut alt and loot a wreck in low or 0.0,well the same mechanics applies here. nothing else change. go flip cans in high sec if you wish with this feature. it wont affect you...only your fleet members. also, learn to read correctly, you seriously need it"
"kick the guy from corp/alliance/fleet. if it is only one person doing it, it usually is obvious over time. you know, when they get killed with a full rack of salvagers in a fleet fight."
"the person can just leave fleet to loot, and rejoin. besides, ccp's not gonna do something like this if they're still letting neutrals or reds loot/salvage wrecks.this is rather sad. it's just some cheap mods. you must be really poor if it's worth making effort over."
"uhm ... yes if i steal from your corp members you could shoot me. (sadly with your npc corp only you could shoot me and you are dead already. :p)the main problem is ... while your fleet members cant loot, everyone else can. so if they could normally save some modules before the some hostile gang lands, you now loose all loot. how does that sound useful? you think the fc will have time to allow looting for all, when he has to sort out the exit strategy for the gang?and the whole feature could fire back on you. :) i start the gang and fc. only allow looting for me and loot happily while you fight.all in all that feature would harm you more in the long run than it would serve you."
"supported"
"ank... i mean milla, good to see you back."
"lord xsiv mad"
"i support addressing this, but not your actual proposal.how about a player that leaves a corp after a war is declared, is unable to rejoin that corp for a full month (or more) after the wardec ends. same with regards to corps dropping out of alliances."
"works for me. but not the op's idea that's for sure."
"while i agree the issue needs to be addressed, i don't think the op's got the right idea on how to do it. i can't think of a better one myself, but i'm certainly not going to support replacing one bad idea with another.better the devil you know and all that.not supported."
"it's usually ex-pirates or nullsec pvp'ers that have become mercs but need to build a name for their new banner."
"no, but i've ment to on several occasions (rl interfered) small empire \"griefer\" corp no-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything a little-sisi patching was too hard, gave up no issues with patching. however, the documentation about how to patch needs some work, as several of my friends who'd never done it before got really confused-generally didnt carea little-wasn't aware of it sometimes-scheduled at a bad time yes-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)i never participated in a test, but i've heard that they tend to not start on time-other please specify a lot of times my skills on sisi don't match my skills on tq, it gets really annoying when i go to fit something i use on tq only to find i can't use it on sisi. also the markets tend to be laggy and/or not work half the time, so it's annoying to spend 15 minutes trying to buy stuff to fit new ships. i might be slightly more motivated (especially if they provided faction charges for my blasters) unsure of the meaning of this question. no, it'd probably get too spammy with people shouting worn out memes about whoever was running the fleet interesting idea, but i don't know how practical it would be. i'd assume there would be even more advanced notice required than for reinforcing a node i'd not test anything on tq for ccp that might involve a loss of more than a few mill that they weren't willing to reimburse at least partially (regardless of a screwup on their part) sure, assuming it fits in my rl schedule it would be nice if ccp would either give some advanced warning about when the mirrors are going to happen, or let us request that our individual characters get mirrored over (even if it was limited to like once a month or something). it would also be great if the market would seed frequently used faction items such as navy antimatter.idea: how about for one of the mass testing events you have a few devs load their carriers with non-seeded items like faction ammo/ships/modules? i'd definitely make an effort to sign up for that."
"i have participated in the past and there have been no improvements. i am no longer interesting in helping a company, who i already pay, run their qa department. the arrogance of ccp displayed these last few months about the lag situation is unacceptable, both the 'vote for us in the eu game contest' and '18 months and we'll start working on lag' crap has been some of the worst bull**** i've seen come out of ccp in my 5 years of playing this game. nobody who matters (read: those of us in 0.0 or people who don't want wow-in-space) gives a crap about pi, wis, or dust. we want to play the fleet battles, without having black screens, like ccp shows in their trailers. until the lag, ****ty ui, and general attitude towards the player base changes, i'm moving back down to one account and paying with isk."
"for those who think the mass testings have done nothing, you may want to learn to read."
"fantastic looking graphs there. too bad the game still doesn't work. that's how i determine improvement, you know, going from unplayable to playable, not unplayable to still unplayable but sometimes a few people can load the grid if they're ****ing lucky."
"i) no - i tried copying my eve folder once and connecting to sisi but i got build issues so left it.the rest of your qns i won't answer.suffice to say my participation would be much more if ccp made it easier (yes i'm a technophobe so sue me)."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yeswere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participatereason:others and me waited for a gang invite for 2hrs.we mentioned repeatedly that we have not gotten the invite.then test was over.i see it as a favor towards ccp if i spend my freetime trying to help them improve the game.as such, bad organisation and failure to provide gang invites toall people who showed up is inexcuseable.also reinvites need to be issued if people that dropped from gang due to game crash ask for them. there needs to be one person in charge of the invites for the whole duration of the test. (which was not the case when i participated)i will definatly not waste any more of my time showing up for these events in the foreseeable future.note: this was one of the earlier mass tests, so maybe organization got better in the later ones. no idea since i did not show up again."
"as i said in the other thread.make it easier to get on the test server. i dont care about down load times. but i dont want to do anything more than click some buttons on screen and enter my password."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)0.0 logi/hac/bs/caps pilotdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yes - though less since dominionwere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-wasn't aware of ityes - first one slipped me by. more noise was made for the others thoughwould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?yes, but i'd participate anyway. perks wouldnt mean much on sisi anyhowwould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?not a clue what you mean.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?yes - to fix lag, i'd even take orders from molleif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?yes, id happily throw a dozen bs at a live lag testwhat sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?asking me to sacrifice my capitals might be going a bit far maybe. obviously if something weird like all my skills being zerod happened, id be... upset.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes, wouldnt expect it to be otherwiseis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?yes - an official response to the threadnaugh might see test participation numbers quadruple"
"don't come here with your facts. i don't want it to be like that so then it isn't. i'm a paying customer so then i am right."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)small corp ceo  indi/mining/t2 manufacture/invention,stopped training this alt for those skills and presently retraining for fighting skills this was due to tyrannis  alt 0.0 pilotdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yes - though less since dominionwere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?bad time for me personaly, badly thought out or planned, feels it needs to be more like what we really do in large fleet fights.would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?dont care would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?yes - to fix lag, make it like the wars going on presently ie the nc vs sc and basically lets us set up the way it is and go head to head or any of the other major 0.0 alliance wars happening right now. we cant do it on tq because its become just plain silly and maybe the alliance heads might just agree to something like this but weve got to do it our way, devs just sit back and watch, record, analise and find a solution.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?yes, id happily throw a dozen bs at a live lag test  also sisi is fantasy land its not real it doesnt count.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?node crashes.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes, if it was interesting.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?yes - an official response to the threadnaugh might see test participation numbers quadruple - seconded"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)0.0 residentdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yeswere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?other rl commitmentswould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?no, i would be inclined not to join in such a case because it brings an influx of people who have no interest at all in testing, just messing with big ships and smartbombing podswould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?it's an interesting idea, i would support it.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?if it meant not having to deal with ccp's 'we are working on getting everyone invites but can't be bothered to click names right now' current clown crew yes.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?you will never get agreement on this so it's hypothetical but yes, if it would be possible to do this in a dedicated node without impacting the server as a whole.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?real fleet combat, not the potemkin village shows on sisi.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?i have and will do so in the futureis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?not really. the huge communications snafus ccp have inflicted on themselves (why should anyone spend time spatial anomaly testing for fixes coming in 18 months ?) and lack of progress despite optimistic statements in dev blogs after the first few tests have killed the momentum there was early 2010."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?(not unless all lvl 5 day counts (i did test though not jerk off))what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)( i'm all over ;))do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?(nope, but know a good many who do/did)were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything (yes)-sisi patching was too hard, gave up (nope)-generally didnt care (well dont think ccp cares so)-wasn't aware of it (nope quite tired of being made aware of it in fact)-scheduled at a bad time (no idea but week days are never as good as weekends)-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify) (n/a)-other please specify (i pay for eve, i see no reason to come home early from work, or not enjoy playing eve (that i am on way too much) to go test out crap for free. i pay you ccp and if you want me to do work for you, you can pay me, be it in free game time, a small (hell 20k) amount of sp w/e ya im gona ***** over a little sp, bottom line i aint working for you for free so you can provide me something i pay you for.)would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps? (id take that as a forum of payment as i could enjoy parts of eve on sisi i cant on tq, get max sp or a lot in return i play for however long testing)would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)? (huh no :s)would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi? (no)would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?( cant say maybe if tq was down, but theirs many other games to play or, gasp, rl to do)is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort? (well seeing as lag is what seems to be a left over screw up from a patch and given that ccp seems to just kinda toss out crap and then like not fix it really whats to make me think mass testing is not just a game to make me think they are working on it start fixing eve and hot damn i might come and give ya a hand if im free for free, but if you ccp cannot be arsed to fix your own game, i sure aint gona do crap, while eve is a great game, i like my cash too, and 3 accounts does drain the wallet a little)"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?* yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)* medium corp mostly high secdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?* nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?* other, a mix of the difficulties of patching, busy rl, corp duties and forgettign when they are scheduled would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?* it will not make a differencewould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?* no, it would not incentive mewould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?* it will make no differenceif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?* it will not deter me from one of the rare 0.0 battles where i participate what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?* pod death? or ship losses? probably it will not make a differencewould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?* yes, already done several times.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?* nothing that can be easily implemented. while not directly related to mass testing, banning from sisi the people that think that griefing there is \"great\" would help (i mean people that constantly break the sisi rules, disrupting testing for \"fun\" and killmails).* a good suggestion i have seen recently is to give the players some million sp to allocate freely (like the gisft sp) to the sisi characters. while not important for me i hear that a lot of people would like it."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no.what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)small corp.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?no.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingyes-sisi patching was too hard, gave upyes-generally didnt careyes-wasn't aware of itno-scheduled at a bad timeyes-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)n/a-other please specifywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?i would consider it. i do seem to recall a huge queue to get on sisi during armageddon day.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?i already fly with garmon on tq if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?prolly not.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?not sure i understand the question.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?if sisi testing occurred during tq downtime i could could see myself hopping on for an hour or 2.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?not that i can think off."
"also this."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? yes, i havewhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident) 0.0 residentdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? no, only small gang warfarewere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything not-sisi patching was too hard, gave up not-generally didnt care not-wasn't aware of it not-scheduled at a bad time not-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify) not-other please specify my back is to heavy, can't sit in a chairwould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps? yes, perhapswould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)? doubt itwould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi? doubt itif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)? ???what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups? ???would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq? (i participate in sisi when i have time for eve in general)is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident) soloerdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-sisi patching was too hard, gave up-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad time-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)-other please specify lazyness mainlywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps? nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)? nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi? noif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)? nowhat sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups? dont understandwould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq? nois there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort? ccp should make some kind of lottery to make more player participating"
"pretty much this, copied folder, patched sisi, got on sisi, no problem, now having to download eve all over again as now unable to get onto tq as only sisi is available..making it easier to access sisi would encourage many more of us to participate, as it currently stands, no chance."
"-have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no-what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident) replace lowsec with wh space then all of the above-do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? yep-were any"
"there is no such requirement. anyone in a player or npc corp can join in the test if their characters exist on the sisi server."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)0.0 alliancedo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?will do so in the futurewere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?max skillpoints would be bad. some skillpoints to get to test your \"next ship\" might be ok. would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?i would not care about the tournament.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?that would be fun.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?yes, i would participate. using tq for such a test might give the devs better insight.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?i guess nobody would bring his cap ship to the test.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes. i do and will.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?i really liked ccp tanis' wager. sadly, given the current situation, we will not see him in kilt and warpaint.ccp should put fixing the game on the top of the list and reschedule incarna. neither the game nor the forums will be able to cope with what will happen if not."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yes on 3 or 4 occasions but not recently.what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)part of one of the major 0.0 allaincesdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?not much recently(last 5-6 months), since the lag and such was just driving me insane.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingthe whole process feom the last time i participated just seemed like a lot of hurry up and wait, and then pretty pointless when we didnt even end up having enough numbers-sisi patching was too hard, gave uptoo hard, no. pita yes, if ccp wants us to be on sisi more often, they should make it simple and seamless from the client as a choice at the login. no need to find cryptic forum post, to figure out the steps. make it totally noob friendly.-generally didnt carei generally dont care that much anymore. the game as it is currently being revealed to us over the next 18 months really doesnt interest me enough to \"waste\" my free time on sisi where things dont count.-wasn't aware of itn/a-scheduled at a bad timethis can often be a problem, but i cant blame ccp for the difference between their tz and mine.-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)all the test i have been on just feel like a cluster ****. or had my logs rejected by the server, just too much hassle.-other please specifyn/awould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?i dont think this would really make me more inclined to participatewould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?no idea what you are talking about, but i doubt itwould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?the hoff is going to fc, im there!!if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?i think i would be ok with this, although i would like to have an idea of exactly what sort of changes these injections are hoped to accomplish in general.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?not sure, but i can see a lot of emonerdrage occuring during a huge contest of sov if ccp totally borked it and timers and such were missed because of it.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?maybeis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?i think that ccp needs to make the whole sisi experience from the client download to the logserver as automated as possible for these mass test. i also wonder why they are stumped that so few people show up, when you consider that our play time availbility is precious and we dont wish to sit around with our thumbs up are arses for hours on a server where things arent persistant and dont really matter much in the greater scope of things."
"the more csm seems to get involved in things, the worse things get. please just leave the game alone."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)all overdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yeswere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything yes. i shouldnt be your qa department and during supercap testing you declared that sisi isnt a testing server-sisi patching was too hard, gave uppain in the a---generally didnt carei'm getting nothing from it except waiting for invites that never come-wasn't aware of itread the forums everyday...-scheduled at a bad timei'm us tz. i work for a living. schedule us tz ops -previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)waiting on fleet invites that never came. sloppy work by people who supposedly 'care'would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?no. a full transfer of sp so i can fly what i fly regularly would be nice. also give real buffs to our real accounts for time spent being your testing departmentwould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)? meh...would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?pfft. sure, i like chasing 'celebrities'if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?you mean sit around on tq while programmers screw with code while we still dont get compensated for your failures because your logs show nothing?what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?ccp refuses to reimburse now. whats the difference?would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?not again nois there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort? get off your ass and fix the problem"
"scheduled at bad time.i have other appointments every thursday evening, so if i could mwd across entire town in 15 minutes, maybe i could only be very late for mass test.one day when i had free time when testing was done, ccp patched tq that day and there was no patch from that version of tq to sisi."
"why ? mass tests started 1 years ago. anything happened ?no. hmmm... yes, the lag worsen than ever, before with mass tests, because ccp dont listen to players what they said, and what need to fix.so, this mass tests is useless in sisi."
"well, you won't \"make\" me do anything.now, if you want to propose some sort of \"play tester\" arrangement, where players are paid isk or skill points for their time and aggravation on the sisi test server for these grand experiments... then maybe that would be the beginning of a solution to getting more folks to participate.ry."
"can their testers not automate mass testing by simulating players via connections? it isn't that hard to simulate that. they already have the code in the npc rats, just make that a connection based one for each aspect they want to \"mass\" test.do they ever do stress testing? if so, that should show where the weak spots are very quickly.how about for my \"participation\" in doing their job for them, they reemburse me somewhat perhaps with skill points like they give for the last patch mess?otherwise, i will not do their job for them.ps: voting threads are against forum rules."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)0.0 residentdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yeswere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-sisi patching was too hard, gave up not too hard, just do not wanna bother with installing seperate client. allow me to 'drop down select sisi' and i am there.-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad time check-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)-other please specifywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?i'd be more inclinedwould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?who cares who the fc is in a meaningless fight?if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?good idea with consent. would agree to it as long as all participating alliances would have to agree to it as well on a per battle basis.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?probably situations where a lot of supercaps are fielded, or when taking important/strategic system sov.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?if the eve client allowed connections to sisi w/o modification and they were scheduled at times i can be online, sure.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?if i could select tq or sisi from the normal eve client, i know i would be much more inclined to log into sisi."
"thanks for all the responses guys. keep them coming."
"voting poll threads are against forum rules, every time they are posted ccp take them down, so why should we keep yours?"
"couple reasons:csm candidate made the poll, probably specifically to address current issues.op is from pl and we all know they have 1337 dev hax and can get away with anything."
"csm issues belong in the proper forum, not general. is the csm that stupid they cannot even post in the correct forum and adhere to the forum rules they expect us to follow?ps: poll == vote . hence the term \"going to the polls\""
"this is a survey, not a vote. it merely asks questions on a specific topic in order to obtain feedback and opinion. as lag can affect anyone in the game, i suggest that this is exactly the right forum for it."
"you mad? need a shoulder to cry on? a pillow to punch?"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)smallcorpdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad timewould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?i would participate if the time spent there was somehow compensated, the new skillpoint giveaway thingy for downtime comes to mind as a wonderful way of promoting sisi testing. when we cant play because of downtime = we get skillpoints. when we cant play because we are on sisi = we get skillpoints. please note i am talking about small skill point giveaways, but just something to show ccp appreciation and to (obviously) get sisi full.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?only if rive, gobbins and the pl/hydra spy teams were present :)would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?see previous answer.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?easier to get people on sisi with skill point incentive and just seed caps imo.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?i don't think i like to lose stuff :)would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?skill points > isk and works better, imo.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?good effort :)"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yes, the first four or fivewhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)primarily 0.0 alliance, but i have 2 highsec alts (indy/missioning) and a lowsec combat alt. i spend over 90% of my time in 0.0do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?absolutelywere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-sisi patching was too hard, gave up-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad timeoften conflict with my work schedule and/or alliance call to arms(ctas) that are sov. timer dependant.-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)the limitations of combat (titan bridges, podding, stealth bombers, bubbles, pos guns, multiple engagement points) was one. this may have been fixed, but i'm working much longer hours now.and on a more psychological note: the \"greenness\" of a statistically significant portion of the participating pilots was overwhelmingly frustrating. people that have maxed graphics settings on, all brackets on, no streamlined overview, no comms discipline, failure to follow commands detract, in my opinion, from the objectives of the test. i understand people are trying to help, but it became more work than it was worth to deal with it for me. i know this sounds extremely bitter and elitist, but i assure you it is not. i would have liked to see more time spent in training/instructing of the events i took place in rather than thowing everyone at a spot and letting the 2nd law of thermodynamics manifest.-other please specifywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?i might be inclined to skip work, but ultimately i think this is unfair. unless ccp really needs the numbers that badly, i think this would be timezone inequality and a way for players with more free time to capitalize in a way that i feel is not in the spirit of eve. i'd make more of the tests if the time was convenient for me and i didn't have an alliance call to arms at that time regardless of the perks.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?perhaps? i would have to hear morewould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?i would log off if this wasn't the caseif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?i think this is the most practical solution and am shocked that ccp has been so opposed to doing this despite how long the problem has been occuring. this, this, this, this, this! a couple weeks of even worse lag is a much lower price than the approaching year of heartbreaking fleet combat.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?none. perhaps reimbursing implants, capitals and/or supercapitals. i think implants > capitals=supercapitals if you wanted to do anything. to be honest we could take cta frigate gangs and only risk implantswould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yesis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effor..."
"what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?none. perhaps reimbursing implants, capitals and/or supercapitals. i think implants > capitals=supercapitals if you wanted to do anything. to be honest we could take cta frigate gangs and only risk implants.i understand the question suggests a refusal of reimbursements, but excluding activities will not work on tq. i'd say exclude podding for the reduction of risk, but pilots will be podded en mass and to not do so would not replicate a true fight of session changing the pilots to their medclones. for this reason i strongly suggest reimbursing implants if you want to crash the node.edit: final station/tcu/ihub timers - sov should not be contestable in the target systems. went without saying.i'll be watching this thread if you'd any clarification.-cire"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)both small & big corp, 0.0 residentdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?you mean 0.0 lag fests? yeswere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?no-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingyes-sisi patching was too hard, gave upno-generally didnt careyes-wasn't aware of ityes-scheduled at a bad timekinda, during one mass testing a gm spawned 100's of npc officer bs, crashing my pc which kinda ****ed me off.-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)-other please specifywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?sure why not, armaggeddon day was fun as hellwould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?no it wouldnt matterwould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?doesn't matterif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?if we had piror notice i would have no problem. however we all know who ever loses the battle will ***** :devhax:what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?final station/tcu/ihub timers. would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?ofc, infact i would strongly be against any sort of isk reward on tq, at best a decoration or some****.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?yes i do, this is what i posted yesterday as some suggestions. if someone at ccp could come up with a script that allowed us to move our hangar contents from our current location to fd-, that would be huge. having to get on sisi 1hr prior to the test to setup is annoying. also reimbursing supercapitals that are lost during testing would encourage more people to bring them, theres nothing wrong with reimbursing them on sisi"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? yeswhat role do you play in eve? small alliance highsec residentdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi? -scheduled at a bad timewould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps? bring back armageddon daywould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)? maybe, depends on the event, i just enjoy playing on sisi to check fitswould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi? yes, as long as they are skilled at fcingif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)? yes, yes it's a good ideawhat sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups? i think that if both parties are willing and consent then i think if the code goes belly up and breaks it all the ships should be reimbursed as a way of apologizing from ccpwould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq? yesis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort? nope"
"i saw a great suggestion in the official testing thread.give people who participate 100,000 skill points on tq. it's free to ccp, and it makes us not feel like we're paying ccp to do their qa and integration testing for them.it's what, two and a half days' training time? for a couple of hours worth of work? i'd do that."
"moved from general discussion. all csm related discussions should be posted here."
"don't you think that's a little counterproductive? in this case i'd argue that the rules should be relaxed a little in the interest of the game."
"in csm meeting minutes it was stated that csm would assist in finding out why people do not participate as much as needed / wanted in these affairs. to get feedback, you need general discussion. on top of that, ccp wants people to participate people by default, so you need the exposure, which again means general discussion.all due respect, but have a think for a moment, dumping the initiative does not aid in ccp's focus or effort or commitment, nor that of the csm in aiding ccp in this."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yes, two of the earlier ones back when i had hope.what role do you play in eve?medium corp in a large 0.0 alliance.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yes, including several where the server was the only winner.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingused to be no, but my faith is rapidly demishing.-sisi patching was too hard, gave upno.-generally didnt careno.-wasn't aware of ityes and no. i used to have to keep a close eye on the forums to find mass test times, but now with the login screen ads i think this is headed in the right direction.-scheduled at a bad timeliving in the american east cost tz, and having a 9-5 job means i usually don't get home until 2130, meaning i miss many of the tests on weekdays. weekend tests are normally fine, but a few 2200-2300 tests would be nice.-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participatedthis had been my biggest demotivator for mass tests. both mass tests i participated in were slow to arrange, and ran late due to low organization. it would be nice to actually get some real eve fcs to step up and lead 2 realistic fleets in a way similar to normal eve battles, fighting over a sov structure or something similar.-other please specifywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?it would intice me a little i suppose, but it may also bring in a lot of people that arn't interested in the test, that only came on to play with the new toys.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?maybe, probably not though.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?yes, i think something like this would both bring in large numbers as well as give better data than normal 'staged' tests.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test?normally i would say no, but at this point things can't get much worse as far as large scale 0.0 fights, so i would reluctantly approve, as long as the players were well informed and we got some feedback that our help actually netted results.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?i think ccp needs to be very careful with how it handles supercaps and reimbursements, especially if their meddling has the potential to cause disasterous results. players often invest massive amounts of time and effort for these ships and i personally would be incredibly upset to lose one on a technicality or glitch as opposed to a legitimate death in the heat of battle.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?the reward for me ultimately is playable battles on tq, so direct rewards are of less interest to me in the first place.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?i would like to see more status updates on this lag issue from ccp, even if a specific test gives no useful data, it would be very nice to have status blogs detailing how each test went."
"that thread is a survey, not a poll despite mazz's ill-considered use of the word poll in the title.confining csm proposals to ah is one thing. it's unreasonable to expect every csm-initiated discussion to occur in ah, since we are expected to reach out to the entire playerbase and cover all aspects of the game.please put this thread back in general discussion, where it is likely to get seen by a lot more players. help us help ccp...that's the whole point of this survey. if you're going to put obstacles in the path of that by moving every single thread we initiate to one corner of the forums where people might not look, how the hell are we supposed to do that?"
"moved back to general discussion"
"<3thank you!"
"thanks!"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no.what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)small corp, resident of wormhole space.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?no.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-sisi patching was too hard, gave up-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad time-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)-other please specify-sisi patching was too hard, gave upwould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?yes.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?sure.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?doesn't affect my decision.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?don't think i'd like a chance to randomly use my expensive ships.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?personally, just make connecting to sisi easier, imho."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)a variety of roles, industrialist, hauler, pirate, mission runner.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?no, i've been avoiding them becuase of the lagwere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-sisi patching was too hard, gave up-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad time-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)-other please specifygetting sisi set up and bad timing.would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?yes, i don't know why they don't do this alreadywould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?would depend on the event.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?probably not. wouldn't make any difference.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?i have no idea what you mean.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?no cluewould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?probablyis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?medals for testers, that would swing it for me."
"yes, once.small corp ceo, alliance leader, lowsec, npc 0.0do my best not to. :)they don't schedule fleet fights in oceanic/aus tz.i might take a day off work for something like that. :p maybe. :-/i might take a day off work for something like that. :p maybe. :-/i might take a day off work for something like that. :p maybe. :-/yes, absolutely.hopefully none. i wouldn't be too stoked about losing my capships to lag, but that's one of the big reasons i don't use them anyway.yeah, but sadly it's priority pretty low on my list of things to do.-liang"
"i just don't want to have to screw around with a separate client install."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yes.what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)alliance stuff.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yes.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingyes-sisi patching was too hard, gave upno-generally didnt careno-wasn't aware of itno-scheduled at a bad timeyes-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)yes-other please specifyn/awould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?not relevant to me personally. i do think that running a script to enable requirements and fill redeem items with ships & fittings to use ahead of time might be something to consider.also, for supercapital pilots, really ... let us dock after the tests in fd- it saves a lot of hassle, tons of hassle.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?yeswould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?doesn't matter. honestly i'd rather see eris cracking the whip .. so to speak. or hilmar.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?lol, bad idea, really.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?all.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?give teamspeakgive briefings, general objectives, expectations, rolesgive updates during executionrun script to make overview settings sisi proof, or have a little library in wiki with xml uploads, along those linestreat it like a campaign / fleet opetc"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no, although i'll try and make it to todays one(august 3rd)what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)npc corp highsec carebear.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?never.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-sisi patching was too hard, gave up(partly a factor due to the perception, but it was easy enough)-generally didnt care(i assumed the big 0.0 alliances would muster enough players on their own for the tests since it affects them more)-scheduled at a bad time( i can't normally make it to the weekday evening tests anyway)would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?none of these would really help. a small skillpoint reward would be the best motivator, really.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?assuming this means ccp monitoring \"live\" fights, its probably the best way to catch whatever it is that causes the lag. what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes, although i'm much less likely to."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)lowsec fwdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything - lag is regularly experienced in systems with as little as one person in them. imo, large numbers of players exacerbate the problem but ignore the real source of lag -sisi patching was too hard, gave up - sisi patching is ok for technically competent players but the unreliable manual setting up of a sisi client mostly points to ccp's whole attitude about things: they don't care about the details.-generally didnt care - i do care, but see above-wasn't aware of it - was too busy shaking my head-scheduled at a bad time - time was fine-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify) - no personal experience but have heard too my stories of ccp making yet another mess of things-other please specify - ccp have been at this for 6 months now, with almost nothing to show for it. i seriously doubt that another 6 months of flogging thedead horse will achieve anything.would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps? - nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)? - mazziliu, you really need to work on your communication skills. i have no idea what that means, and i'm pretty sure that others have the same problem.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi? - noif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)? - ccp need to have a few developers with modified monitoring clients and with server monitoring code injected spend a lot of time in nullsec, roaming and doing fleet fights so that they can experience the problems while being able to simultaneously track them. ccp would need to clearly mark themselves as such and square this with the players they fight/help by reimbursing losses to which they contributed. sisi is not tq and is imo pretty much worthless as a testing ground.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups? - i seriously doubt that ccp refusing to compensate their own customers for their own mistakes would result in ccp retaining many of those customers.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq? - no, unless ccp could explain to me how they manage to see sisi as an adequate stand in for tq.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort? - the testing and monitoring needs to be done on tq, and ccp need to reimburse the players. no question about it. ccp needs to get a number of alliances to agree on place, then get fleets into the area and lock down all access to it and reimburse all losses for the duration of the test. they also need to test almost empty systems. personally, i don't see ccp doing any of this as they are too convinced of their own capabilities and will continue to dribble away customers until they go bankrupt in a couple of years."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no: i give them money for doing their job. if they give me free sub time to do theirs, then sure.what role do you play in eve?alliance, 0.0do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?yeswere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?other: i have better things to do with my time than running in circles for ccp.would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?yes.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?yes, but how can a tq tournament require sisi? would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?no. wouldn't make much of a difference.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?yes. probably. what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?tough question. either they test or they don't. i don't care how they do it as long as it's done with consent.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?no. probably not. paying people so i can do their job.. i have better things to do.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?1 week free playtime for being (active!) in the testing fleet from start to stop. a quick awk script should parse that from the logs easily. actually my time in real life is worth a _lot_ more than that, but it would probably be sufficient bait."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yes, a few times what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)part of a smaller corp that has done all sort of different things, low sec, 0.0 high sec. do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?no, about the biggest i've been in was a 200 person or so fight.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-sisi patching was too hard, gave up-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad time-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)-other please specifyyes, i miss a lot of opportunities to participate because the tests are scheduled on weekdays before i get out of work. would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?yes, it would be fun to test out a character with max skills or supercaps or faction ships every once in a while on sisi. would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?yeah maybe. it would depend on the type of event or tournament. would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?maybe. if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?like, put new code in to tq just before a giant fleet fight? yeah maybe, but i think this would be tough to do and to get everyone to agree to. what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?i don't know, i just like to fight, so it doesn't bother me much. would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yeah, i've done it before with no reward. i really would like to see the game improved. is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?not really."
"them's a buncha words. some appear to have had the bold treatment. nice work."
"not gonna write all that out but i haven't participated because i don't feel like beta testing a real release that i pay real money to work properly. the lag should've been fixed before it was released, and considering how gamebreaking it is, the patch(es) should've been rolled back (minus supercap changes) when the bug was discovered.maybe if my alliance had more of a push towards participation i'd consider putting more of an effort in, but i'd still rather do stuff in the real game with my real time."
"mazz is just using this for her nefarious datamining purposes. oh well.have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?nope.what role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)small highsec pvp alliance.do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?nope.were any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything-generally didnt care-wasn't aware of itwould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?of course.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?maybe.would you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?maybe. i wonder what vs's fcing is like... oh wait you said he has to be well liked. scratch that. nah i don't care about chribba's fc skills. oh unless you mean someone famous like patrick stewart, in which case hell yes.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?i have no idea. probably not, since it's not a real solution.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?dunno.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?it doesn't need to be isk... but in the end probably only once or twice out of curiosity.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?pictures of your boobs. otherwise, a t-rex riding a bicycle."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yeswhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)smallcorp highsecdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingyes-sisi patching was too hard, gave upno-generally didnt careno-wasn't aware of itno-scheduled at a bad timeyes-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated (please specify)no (see also \"other\")-other please specifyno tangible results since i started to join those tests in februarywould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?no (would have been different 2 months ago)would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?maybe.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?i think that's a great idea. i'd consent.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?no idea.would you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yes, i already did.is there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?yes, \"what would it take to make you participate?\" and my answer to that would be\"a clear statement about the problem that is under investigation, an idea about what change is being used (this would have to be rather abstract, i'm not looking for confidential technical information), a thorough follow up (average fps and a \"well a bit worse than last time\" is something i can see first-hand in my own client; i'm talking about expected result, actual result, reasons for difference), a decision if that change will be kept / reverted / modified and when (if at all) it will hit tq\"i'm tired of this vague, completely ambiguous, totally open-ended \"we're working on it, it will change soon\"."
"yep! i'm emptying your bank account as i type.also i am compiling a list of the majority of public concerns(as well as the most interesting ones raised by people who i know are qualified in technical things) that have been raised both here and on the pl forums where i posted the same survey. i'll be posting it in the csm discussions with ccp as well as posting a copy in the public thread here too. it should be done in a week or so it really depends on how much finals kick my ass.i'll also post the pl response from our alliance forums over here in the interest of letting people see where i get my conclusions from."
"yes. once. it was fail. shortly after i showed up, ccp spawned a titan and instapopped everybody on the grid not in a heavily-plated battleship, including me.highsec on this character. 0.0 resident on character currently getting the most playtime.yes. but for me, \"big\" means twenty or thirty ships on a side. triple digit fleets are something i have experienced, but only rarely.no.yes. sort of. about half the time i've tried to patch sisi over the years, it's failed, not worked, or messed up my main install somehow. so i'm reluctant to go there, generally prefer not to mess with it. a mass test is not a good enough reason.no. i care.no. i see the announcements, but since i don't consider mass tests worth patching setting up a sisi client for, i don't take note of them.sometimes. usually not, though -- the weekend times are generally ok.see above. the one i attended (a long long long time ago) was to do with lag and pos mechanics. it involved two fleets, but i didn't see much of it because ccp spawned a titan and wiped the grid of anybody who wasn't in a heavily tanked battleship. this appears to have been done for lulz after they got whatever data they came for, but i'm not certain. it annoyed me because it was before the ship fitting tool and so it was 20 minutes of wasted ship-fitting time that i had done to help them with tests.i don't really believe that all the data in the world will do them any good. during the dev cycle for new features, when they put bugs up on sisi and these are heavily reported, they often just sail right through into production, and then ccp reacts with surprise. \"that's not working? oh really? you should bug report that?\" when there's a forty-page thread containing 22 bug report numbers in the test server feedback section. ccp doesn't tranlate data about problems into problem solving.nah.nah, tournaments are meh.no more likely to.i don't see that as practical. but i don't mind if they do.i don't want rewards. i want to know that (1) setting up sisi won't bork my main clients and settings, 100% guaranteed, (2) ccp won't be wasting my time during the mass test, and (3), ccp will actually be doing something useful with the data. right now, they don't have my trust sufficiently on any of those three points."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident) alliance 0.0 do you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleetfights?yes when i can were any of these factors the reason you havebeen prevented in participating in a mass teston sisi?no-didn't believe the test would accomplishanythingyes, coding is the prob.-sisi patching was too hard, gave up -generally didnt care-wasn't aware of it-scheduled at a bad time-previous tests were poorly conducted so i nolonger participated(please specify)no to all dat above.-other please specify would you participate in a sisi mass test if theygave you perks you would never get on tq likemax skillpoints, or supercaps? nope. i have all i need on tranqwould you participate in a sisi mass test ifthere was a tq tournament going on thatrequired it(specifically, the sort of player-runsort of events that don't involve creation ofisk)?no would you participate in a sisi mass test ifsomeone really famous and well likedcommanded the fleet on sisi?no, who cares. if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fightbut only if both parties consented, andeveryone knew in advance that there would beno reimbursement just like usual, would youever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea****es you off a lot or if you think it's a goodidea)?probably a bad ideawhat sort of situations would be excluded fromever being tested if ccp refused to givereimbursement for deaths incurred during tqcode injection ****ups? my head is hurting now.would you ever participate in any sort of sisimass testing if there was no immediate anddirect isk reward on tq? nois there anything major that this survey hasmissed that you think could greatly help thetesting effort?you didnt put \"the end\" at the end."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no - i tried once and it didn't happenwhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)self run empire corpdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingno-sisi patching was too hard, gave uppatching sisi is very hit and miss, unless you keep very up to date with the versions more often than not it's often easier to copy your tq directory and do the tq to sisi patch-generally didnt careno-wasn't aware of itno - that is one good thing ccp are good at communicating-scheduled at a bad timethursday at 20:00 is a bad time for a lot of uk players, it's 21:00 bst and if you start work fairly early then it is too late to start playing. i generally start work at 07:00 so i'm getting up at 05:00, bed time is 22:00 (yeah i know, but i needs my beauty sleep). times should be rotated to try and get people from different time zones.-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)sort of - i can't remember the specific test event but i'd got myself geared up for it, assembled ships in fd, waited around for a while passed the start time, and all we got was it's going to be a bit late or something like that, left at t+30m as it was too late to start messing around then.-other please specifynormally bad timing or lack of current character on the test server, how long does it take to mirror the server? can't it be done nearer the test time?would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?yes - although max skillpoints is a grey area, i've managed to log in once on one of these events and it was a farce, granted it was when tq was down for something big so everyone was trying to get on for the god skills.supercaps would maybe be interesting, but i fear that because they can't fly them on tq then you will get the idiots going silly with them.one thing that has been suggested on the forums is now the skill point allocation system is running, allocate a goodly number of skill points to the characters on sisi so people can play around a bit more, or even bring their character up to date with the one on tq, i've got a tq character that can now fly a dread, but i've got no idea if the same character can fly one on sisi.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?no - wouldn't have any influencewould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?ooh you mean like ozzy osbourne? - no - wouldn't have any influenceif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?i've got no idea what you mean, if you mean that they 'play around' with the tq server in fleet fights etc, then no - there is probably a good chance that something bit would screw upwhat sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?don't really know what you mean by code injectionwould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?there isn't at the moment, do you mean there is a direct isk reward on tq? or am i having a blonde moment"
"carrying on from previous post.i would like ccp to be open and up front with the paying public. there is a great deal of anger towards you guys at the moment, and no real reply from you, many questions have been asked and nothing being said.i've not really followed the 18 month saga but i've picked up on the fact that there are no real plans to fix the issues that are currently here. i appreciate that you have teams of devs focussing on other areas such as dust and incarna, and they will have specialities, a graphics designer isn't a code monkey and vice-versa, but it seems that eve is on the brink of collapse, and nothing really seems to happen. i'm not talking about today's tq downtime, but there are problems flagged up on the forums and nothing seems to happen about them. maybe if ccp made decent announcements that they are working on certain problems, or even explaining why they can't just fix them immediately, would go a small way to help the situation.i'd be great if eve2 was written with new code and databases that are up to the job, but the feasibility of this is extremely unlikely"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)highsecdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-other please specifynot inntested in making a cop of the game, then try and run the patch that generaly dont work wellwould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?yeswould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?nowould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?noif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?dunnowould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yesis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?not that i know of"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?yes - two test before dominion came out, and two sincewhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)small mining corp in 0.0 alliance, but work in hisecdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-scheduled at a bad time (i'm au timezone, so 18.00 is about 4am for me)would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?the skillpoints would be nice, but participating in the testing should be somthing that all players should do to make thier gameplay better - we're only helping ourselves!would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?yeswould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?would not affect my decision in any wayif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?yes - its only pixels, and we would have consented to it.what sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?can't commentwould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?yesis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?ccp needs to stress that the tests only help the players. sure, its a few hours out of thier lives, but the information ccp gains from the tests aids the game in the long run, and thus everyone.or at least, that's the theory."
"yeah, the united states does tend to follow judaeo-christian traditions in a lot of respects, and calendars starting with sunday is one of those traditions. in the united states and websites created primarily by americans, you will almost never see a calendar start with monday, it almost always starts with sunday.eve online notwithstanding, i can't remember the last time i ever saw a calendar start with monday. that's how rare it is over here."
"thanks--i didn't know that. answers my questions. by-the-way, that's what i think they are after...being around for another 10-20 years instead of being a flash-in-the-pan. things like dust and incarna and tyrannis are layers of detail that can be built on and improved--not distractions and take-aways. i'd say they are pretty smart. i stayed away from eve for the past three years after hearing it was nothing but scrambling for cash and big ships so you could pvp all the time. i found that something that would get old pretty quick and wasn't paying monthly for it. it was only when i heard about planetary development in tyrannis that i decided to give it a shot--now i am hooked."
"i like the idea. i recently found 8 pos's belonging to 1 corp, all inactive. i joined the corps public chat channel, to find it empty for weeks. why should this space clutter take up valuable moons. it makes more sense to be able to \"steal\" it instead of blowing it up. it cleans up clutter, and it keeps active corps on their toes to make sure pos's don't go offline.i like a 30 day timer idea, where an inactive pos has a timer when it can be unanchored."
"+1 oh so many junk towers floating around."
"this would be nice."
"@ finnagain zero-lets be clear here. you're the altar boy, and i'm the priest when it comes to creating a viable arguement. you have a well developed style that takes comments and ideas out of their full context, and focuses on a single interprtation of t"
"kinky. but no. don't strain yourself patting yourself on the back though. i quote the ideas i'm responding to. you just respond to the individual ideas that you want to respond to. i just use the specific text i'm talking about in order to do it. no, there aren't. there was a seven year old overt act that ccp has since changed policy on and a scandal with a single dev who gave bpo's to bob and lost his job because of it. even if there was a spate of corruption (which there isn't), it doesn't change the fact that you actually want devs to be banned from playing the game. it is impossible to get a visceral sense for the dynamic and balance of the game without being able to actually experience it. if more devs had actually had to sit there and try to drop a tcu, may be we'd have gotten a better sov system. nope. you didn't rebut anything and your mindreading act fails. i haven't played devil's advocate, i have pointed out where you're wrong.in point of fact, i stopped discussing your \"players provide [something]\" because it's a silly proposal and i had no interest in chewing it over. you quibbled over the issue of what \"balance\" was as differing from \"appeasement\", while drawing no actual distinction between the two. players who complain form the data set that ccp would use to \"compile statistics\". that is, if ccp listened to player complains, they would indeed end up appeasing the people whose complaints made up the statistics. that's part of why direct democracy is mob rule. your comment about ccp devs misses the fact that the lack of trust for ccp is a fairly silly policy and ia already exists to police improper dev actions."
"@ finnagain zero-i've gone over this blog and seen the manner in which you respond to posts. you take the ideas that are presented, and hone in on a specific set of word usages in order to either force yet another, overly technical explanation on the subj"
"@timathai - hate to tell you this but you are arguing with a fanboi, and a rather irrational one at that (not that by definition there are rational ones, but you get my meaning hopefully). when confronted by these, there is not really much you can do or s"
"like i said you (and everybody else) does the same exact thing. i pointed out, for instance, that you and i both respond to the ideas we want to respond to and ignore the rest that we don't want to respond to. in your response... you just mentioned that i post the text of and respond to the issues i want to discuss and didn't discuss the rest. which is perfectly fair. selecting which points you want to respond to is part and parcel of a discussion that doesn't take forever. the suggestion that you made is nonviable as you presented it. i doubt it can be refined to the point of viability, and even if it can somehow, what you suggested is, by your own reckoning, not viable. pointing out that it was not a good suggestion because it was not viable is not beyond the pale. nor is it \"obtuse\" to point out the fact that you just agreed to: your idea is nonviable in its current state."
"given that - by their own admission, ankh only got as many votes as she did because pvpers wanted to troll other pvper - one could say that her consituency is still fairly well represented. ps if anyone knows what ankh actually did, please evemail me."
"i'd wager that the pvpers voting for ank to grief other pvpers were a fairly small number of voters, but that's just a guess. point still stands that those 'bears who did vote for her got royally karmad**a process, i would note, that seems to have driven some of them utterly 'round the bend."
"finny me lad, you must change your name to \"the myoptic one.\"oh yes, the small forum segment (compared to total players) of our sandbox must:support csm5"
"myopia has an actual definition, you know. \"it sounds cool, and i think it means something bad!\" is not a great reason to use a word you don't know. if you're going to use non sequitors, at least go for the gusto. \"you quisling anklebiting debutante!\" or something. in any case, not sure what your other non sequitor about supporting the csm has to do with anything that's been said recently, but of course eve's playerbase should support the csm. whether they voted for them or not, the csm are the one and only group of people who have the direct attention of ccp devs as part of the official development cycle and the one and only group of people who can give a unified representation of the playerbase's needs and desires wrt the development of the game to those devs. glad we had this talk."
"is this entire thread fanbois *****ing that someone who broke the law got booted?she dropped off the face of the planet the day she got caught, doesn't take a genius to figure out why."
"as long as this thread has continued, i think we have hashed out all that can be with our current information at hand. the person in question is silent, ccp isnt adding anything to the conversation, and we all have on our tinfoil hats and have taken off our glasses at this point. (nearsighted people have difficulty reading highway signs and seeing other objects at a distance, but can see for up-close tasks such as reading or sewing. i got the myopia reference, and it's no surprise that finnagain did'nt) i've said that ccp's past unprofessional actions have had an effect on this issue, and let my self get in to a long winded discussion defending this. it doesnt make it any less true. for those in defense of ccp, your hearts in the right place, and i hope they have changed their stance on how they deal with the playerbase. for those in defense of ankh, if you think that a company would make an accusation of that type, involving an actual, real life, contractual agreement, without a solid, bulletproof reason, your tinfoil hat is blocking out the sun.regardless of what the circumstances were that lead up to the breach of the nda, or when it occurred, it did happen. as a professional, and someone in the industry, ankh should have known better.please close this thread, it's wasting our time, and ccp's at this point"
"that would require it to be an actual reference and not a content-free insult. in other words, an actual accusation and not \"lol, i don't like you, now i'm going to use a word that i think means something bad!\" it's about as solid of a reference as the rhetoric about pvp 'extremists' or 'fanatics'. ah well."
"quoting this for sheer comedic value. csm has nothing to do with the player base. csm has nothing to do with providing a unifying representation of anyone beyond themselves and their own petty wants. it's funny how 88% of player sees it as an irrelevancy, how ccp themselves see it as an irrelevancy, but fanbois like you cling to it like you cling to your wooby blanket.now that one of the loafers has been turfed, we just have to wait for the rest of the useless oxygen thieves to fall after her. oh and no, no alt supporter for poor sad eva , just a concerned player.trolling removed. zymurgist"
"i think how much of a virt fanboy you are is directly related to how much of what he says you actually understand. half the time i like him, half the time my eyes glaze over - i mean, i'm sure he's making good sense in the abstract, but there's a limit on how much business-speak i can parse."
"confirming the csm are viewed as tools by ccp."
"virt is the only poster i know of who regularly violates the forum rule that all posts must be in english, while still posting in english.the tl;dr versions of a virt post are usually tl;dr."
"oi!get to work you tools stop stalking an honest player, seriously, i don't even do forums that much!"
"i disagree that a chair on the csm should automatically be reserved for a newer player. instead, if a newer player wants on the csm, then they should work to get their votes the same as any other candidate. if they manage to get elected even without having a lot of prior time in-game building up a network or a following, then they probably really do have what it takes to get up to speed on the game knowledge needed to be a contributing and productive member of csm. csm is not an easy job. it requires some degree of knowledge of game mechanics and history. i suspect new players would have a very difficult time weighing in productively on the wide variety of issues raised and \"bigger picture\" discussions that take place. i would be concerned that the csm process would get bogged down worse than it is already by the need to have to bring such players up to speed on topics they knew nothing about so that they could at least understand the context of an issue well enough to cast \"informed\" votes at working meetings. you may think i sound elitist, but i am merely making a practical observation.however, interested new players can get involved. there's nothing stopping a new player from getting in touch with a csm delegate and offering to work with them regarding new player issues. any csm who is engaged in the job of being a delegate should welcome this. in fact, i can easily imagine a \"new player committee\" that is mentored so to speak by a csm. the committe could do the leg work on proposals to address new player issues, bring those to their csm mentor, and then the csm mentor could advise them on the proposal, coach them in posting and getting support for it, then assuming that works out, the delegate could raise the issue in a meeting for a csm vote.the benefit of that approach is that a) more new players can get involved, b) they learn more about the game and csm process along the way, and c) the mentor can give the new players community exposure which would be useful ground-laying for the new players' own csm campaign should they decide to run.it would be pretty neat if part of the responsibility of being a csm delegate was to \"adopt\" one special interest player committee to work with on non-nda stuff. i have thought about this some and have several ideas about how it might work, the processes that might be used, and the benefits to be gained. just haven't had time to put those thoughts together in a \"csm mentors guide for player special interest groups\". and...to be honest...this is not a program that would appeal to all csm delegates, as the amount of time and effort each is able or willing to put into this volunteer position varies widely.however, given the current situation regarding the lack of dev resources for csm issues for the next few expansions, i've been trying to do non-issues related csm stuff that is both tangible and productive. producing a guide like this might be one of those things. if people have ideas about the concept, i'd love to hear them."
"i just wanna point out that this isn't much worse than the typical turnout for local elections in my county."
"thanks a lot for pi (insert heavy sarcasm). i've been really lusting for a system that allows me to stare at a static image while i click the same button 100 times/day. who needs garbage like cosmos with it's unique missions and rewards.it's been said that nothing will change until subscriber numbers start to suffer. i don't know about the rest of you, but if it gets bad enough that i have to quit (and i'm almost there), i am never coming back. there won't be any second chances. we the player have put up with a lot because the game is based on some great ideas that can't really be found elsewhere. but if you continue screwing up the implementation, good ideas won't be enough to save the game in the end. your competitors will catch on & catch up. there are other companies out there making good games, don't make me play them!! how big of a stake does that guy have in ccp anyway? the article doesn't say, but it seems like 100% by the way things are going. this reminds me of that douche kotick from activision, who started selling warcraft mounts to pay for his sexual harassment law suits.i can think of a few bugs right off the top of my head that have been in the game since i've been playing, which is completely unacceptable. fix long standing bugs. fix lag. fix socket closed. finish & refine content that should have been finished years ago. i and everyone i know would much rather have these things than incarna or any other new \"feature\".+200% support."
"supported"
"supported."
"definately supported, i'd give up wis and the winter expansion in favour of ccp fixing all the things they've done in a half-arsed manor. what i would suggest the csm do is push ccp to ask the community to vote for which features they see as most critical to fix over the next 18 months (one vote per account), and to commit to a realistic time scale to introduce the finished features. it's time for ccp to take a step back and consolidate what they have before pushing on with the new features which more than likely will be introduced in a half arsed manner as seems to be the case over the last couple of years, and each expansion is even more half arsed than the last. i would hope that ccp's senior (read ceo) personnel would have the respect to at least visit the next csm meeting in person once per year, if only to get a feel for how the player base feels about things, rather than relying on 2nd and 3rd hand information from people that will say everything is ok when its not, which based on one of the dev blogs seems to be the perception in the organisation.hopefully this threadnaught is being read by the ccp senior exec's and they start to grasp how the player base feels. finally, can the csm push for a fanfest meet the ceo open floor discussion with the fans so that we can let him know what we feel."
"i support efforts to fix/improve old features. can we have a patch where the old features just get updated without introducing all these 1/2 finished new features?"
"wow. good find. here's a working link, since, for some reason, yours now redirects to /null..."
"supported."
"make 'em super large! (and carriers and dread too), or make everything else supah small.double titans in sizemake the moms titan size, and double dread/carrier sizei want my carrier ( that holds 2 bs) to be *at least* 4 times the size of a bs."
"kinda supporting the idea. for the price they should carry more tank and gank."
"signed."
"ok i've read this thread and the csm proposal trying to get a handle on why the learning skills are so despised and adored in equal measure. also trying to discover what ccp wants to do with the attributes that they affect: do they want to speed up, or slow down training times. that is after all, what they do and all they do.firstly i want to say this.the achilles heel of every rpg since d&d of the 70's is the stats, why anyone thinks eve should be immune is beyond me. the fact is ccp's use of the atts is inspired, you may have 30 for perception, doesn't mean you can hit anything. but you can train up frigate 5 in a week.right-o onto my conclusions.if new players are being turned off the game because they perceive they must train learning skills just to compete this has to be addressed. new players are the lifeblood of eve, and when dust launches it is going to bring in a host of new players coming from that platform into ours. as an old player and a supporter of learning skills i have advised all my mates to train up learning to basic 4 adv 3. i haven't had any negative feedback from them, but as they saw the training time drop for skills they did want, they were happy.if they are removed, then the new baseline for all stats should be around 20-22. this will give some real meaning to the attributes as well as allowing for some serious specialising through the remap feature. i suspect that virtually everybody will at some point end up with charisma of 5, making us all butt ugly, anti-social and borderline sociopaths. (and i play this game to get away from reality)i hope you guys notice the lack of flamage between this post and my first."
"i had a look at the op again and have changed my mind. if the compensation package is accepted i'd get 227m isk and 25m sps across all 9 chars. 3 mains maxed learning, 6 alts with an average of 1.8m sps.better yet, the alts would become mains by virtue of the increased atts they would get, lovely.where do i sign."
"i support op's proposal"
"empire mag sites could certainly do with a little love.no one wants them to be isk-printing machines; but providing rewards more in line with those obtainable from equivalent radar sites wouldn't be too much to ask.after all, there's plenty of highsec ded sites, static and otherwise, that will provide rewards way in excess of these for only fractionally more effort."
"nullsec mag sites are right on par with nullsec radars and usualy better."
"concerning high sec i would say for grav sites orientate on the market value.with omber beeing worth nothing i dont want to search for those. make it plag or whatever is the best and second best ore in high sec at the time. plus the pocket should be as big as about 50% of \"breaking their will\"."
"darveses #33, #34, #97, #98, #99, #100, #111, #113, #167, #51, #52, #55, #61, #63, #84, #127, #147,"
"nova tiempo,#133,#28,#87,#84,#32,#49,#86,#97,#34,#40,#10,#12,#105,#107,#167,#23,#48,#112,#7,#15"
"dan kaneda,167,152,131,100,23,34,19yes i did read the list backwards."
"mordarx:6,8,14,19,39,45,51,52,63,69,89,98,108,114,120,131,133,136,149,168"
"ramalla:7,19,23,33,34,39,40,45,48,56,69,78,84,98,100,104,115,160,164,167"
"just thought i'd post the preliminary results (votes on pages 1-4) for some of the top vote-getters. item is the item number, count is the raw # of votes, score is the weighted # of votes (some people voted for more than 20 items, their votes get diluted a bit, and issue name should be obvious.item count score issue name---- ----- ----- ----------- 34 52 51.90 commit to excellence (csm) 14 47 46.86 allign to bookmarks (csm) 39 43 42.86 corporation bookmarks (csm) 138 40 39.95 show damaged drones in drone bay (csm) 33 38 37.86 commit to fixing the ui (csm) 19 33 32.69 assault frigates 4th bonus (csm) 105 32 31.90 neuts/nos on overview (csm) 40 31 31.00 corporation and alliance tool overhaul (csm) 134 30 29.95 ship fittings visible via show info without boarding ship. (csm) 132 29 28.95 ship active tank bonus buff (csm) 108 29 28.95 overhaul of roles and grantable roles system (csm) 136 28 27.69 show implants on pod killmails (csm) 16 28 27.65 allow reactivation of accidentally deactivated modules (csm) 69 27 27.00 fix rockets (csm) 35 25 24.86 competence of the gm department (csm) 8 25 24.55 add probes to overview (csm) 164 23 22.95 view ship fittings in hanger without boarding ship (csm) 7 22 22.00 add meta column in item detail list view (csm) 167 21 21.00 whatever happened to the industry expansion (csm) 48 21 20.90 docking games fix (csm) 23 20 20.00 black ops improvements part 2 (csm) 113 20 19.74 reconnect to lost drones (csm) 97 20 19.74 make guns continue firing at previous target after reload (csm) 38 19 19.00 corp hangar audit logs (csm) 111 19 18.74 planetary interaction omnibus proposal (csm) 45 18 17.95 destroyer improvements (csm) 83 18 17.95 improvements to the f11 navigation panel (csm) 149 18 17.74 store bookmark folders server-side. (csm) 49 17 17.00 docking in capital ships (csm) 15 17 17.00 allow naming any ship in your hanger (csm) 47 17 17.00 distinguish between afterburners and microwarpdrives with different icons (csm) 87 17 17.00 individual pilot income generation in 0.0 (csm) 102 17 17.00 more orbit range options (csm) 100 17 16.90 modular starbase (csm) 17 16 16.00 api improvements (csm) 10 16 15.95 add the feature of switching characters without relogging. (csm) 53 16 15.90 easy overloading toggle (csm) 109 16 15.74 personal hangar improvements (csm) 122 16 15.65 save and reuse scan probe patterns (csm) 112 16 15.65 prevent cloaked ships in same gang/fleet from decloaking each other 11 15 15.00 adjust camera center (csm) 12 15 14.95 aggression timer length (csm) 168 15 14.69 wild 0.0 (csm) 142 14 14.00 sound issues (csm) 79 14 14.00 improve overload user interface (csm) 114 14 14.00 redesign sensor booster and eccm effects (csm) 67 14 13.95 fix kill mails (csm) 66 14 13.95 fix to loggoffski (csm) 5 13 12.74 add faction, deadspace and officer icons (csm) 56 12 12.00 eve font changes - progress requested (csm) 54 12 12.00 end ghost (unpaid account) datacore production (csm) 99 12 12.00 mining crystals change color of mining laser beam (csm) 51 12 12.00 dynamic missions (csm) 21 12 11.95 balance self-destruction (csm) 107 12 11.95 outpost dock radii (csm) 3 12 11.95 account security enhancements (csm) 110 12 11.74 personal wallet divisions (csm) 115 12 11.69 remote repping and aggression (csm) 127 12 11.69 sell multiple items at once (csm)"
"miner693 133,98,87,48,14,1,21,34,167,164,148,147,116,115,110,100,97,49,33,22"
"kaitou shiroi, 1, 5, 6, 8, 13, 19, 23, 24, 32, 34, 67, 69, 70, 77, 113, 133, 136, 166, 167, 168"
"vundarpicks 5, 8, 10, 12, 13, 25, 34, 69, 77, 97, 113, 136, 138, 148, 154, 156, 157, 165, 166."
"thanks for taking this initiative, trebor. if you were a woman i'd say you're the best csm delegate.hatsumi kobayashi,pick#19,pick#23,pick#24,pick#25,pick#33,pick#34,pick#53,pick#58, pick#60,pick#61,pick#62,pick#63,pick#64,#pick65,#pick#66,pick#69,pick#79,pick#102,pick#114"
"flikoo,#12,#18,#19,#22,#23,#31,#33,#34,#35,#48,#49,#54,#55,#87,#110,#134,#148,#154,#167,#168i wish fixing hybrid weapons and looking at lag more was on there :("
"reverted pacifist,5,10,11,13,14,15,32,33,34,51,52,69,55,99,87,100,139,167,168,148"
"morksi,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"velocity psycho 34,48,33,164,84"
"epitrope,#3,#6,#14,#17,#33,#34,#37,#40,#51,#71,#72,#96,#98,#100,#108,#122,#134,#138,#149,#167"
"phopptimus prime,34,19,69,99,106,100,111,113,124,138,144,167,1,84"
"lekaner,10,34,87,97,111,131,139,148,17"
"onicio,50,54,74,105,108,111,115,131,138,17,36,102,113,123,135,136,141,146,153,160,148"
"svennig,149,34,14,23,39,154,19,132,15,47,100,45,112,97"
"zach hart,34,23,112,14,39,19,135,111,16,164"
"taudia,34,45,22,29,28,67,54"
"encelados,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"sphit ker. 11, 14, 16, 22, 32, 34, 46, 76, 79, 83, 90, 97, 100, 114, 115, 116, 132, 147, 164, 166"
"yeah, the umpteenth time is the charm.just look at the first 15 items in your list. they have been pushed by the csm and players again and again.this is just more of the same crap:\"here's the list\"\"cool, it's in the backlog now\"\"kthxbai\"the only thing this will achieve is 1. make very clear how many issues were left untouched (again)2. get some great statement about how ccp are really committed to excellence and do everything they can to improve the game (again)3. not change anything (again)"
"in all that list i've seen no reference to a shiptpye even more horribad than afs and dessies combined - the eafs. they too need a serious revisit."
"calistai huranu picked: 34,69,168,6,17,8,10,14,105,165,112,4,19,24,43,47,48,7,95"
"elle d, 4,5,8,15,19,20,26,39,42,49,69,71,80,83,84,105,110,127,138,164"
"ihcn, 5,7,8,10,34,45,46,54,69,90,96,99,111,113,126,131,135,137,138,147,"
"chaireth cutestory,168,167,144,132,114,108,100,98,92,79/53 (same?),54,41,40,37,33,34,17,3,blasters"
"nykoon, 38, 39, 40, 107"
"hydra ulik ,38,39,40,107, 108"
"eris urizen,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"yeay fritg,14,34,39"
"<venkul mul>, pick#7, pick#8, pick#24, pick#34, pick#51, pick#58, pick#60, pick#61, pick#74, pick#95, pick#109, pick#111, pick#122, pick#132, pick#135, pick#138, pick#144, pick#147, pick#167"
"major oceanne, 10,14,34,39,"
"draugz ,38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"mcicetea,38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"zaharan,19,20,24,25,34,38,39,45,50,67,68,120,166"
"magistre, pick#30, pick#33, pick#34, pick#48, pick#53, pick#52, pick#55, pick#61, pick#69, pick#102, pick#164, pick#142, pick#136, pick#138, pick#132, pick#109, pick#110,"
"jeschli, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"john pierpont,34,51,35,36,3,8,14,20,32,63,105,136,144,152,115,111,107,77,54"
"kel'sahr: pick:#10,14,15,19,38,39,40,45,69,99,107,136,139,164"
"bobbi attwell 34,14,32,87,23,43,112"
"snot shot = fix lag,9,14,34,43,46,49,115,136,154,156,164"
"kriegsmeisterin lemora, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"reasearch ,38,39,40,107,108"
"pick #34, #37, #48, #112, #113, #116, #133, #168"
"paperwingsx,7,23,14,69,105,97,116,112,127,131,136,164,154,122,59"
"rhavas,8,11,33,41,51,78,83,84,96,97,102,109,111,112,116,120,124,137,147,164please note that many of the entries on the main list are redundant (ex: #45 destroyer improvements and #120 review destroyers). votes for these redundant items and the entries themselves should be combined."
"csm meeting minutes:\"it was mentioned by ccp that the data does not seem to support that polished quality sells better than new features. this led to a discussion on the balance of customer acquisition through new features versus customer retention through quality and polish. the csm also stressed the importance of goodwill and overall player satisfaction, which is very hard to measure in statistics until players decide to quit. the csm is concerned that players are losing faith and loyalty in ccp due previous expansions not living up to player expectations. the csm and ccp agreed that expectation management can be improved.csm remained unconvinced of ccps commitment to excellence, even after nathan's arguments were heard.\"csm minutes"
"dangerfan,14,17,39,48,66,86,131,136,159"
"zarallo, 38,39,40,107"
"i do appreciate your doing this but as currently set up i think this is a poor system to measure players desires, heres why: 20 is allot of votes. it would be nice if we could use some votes for a few items that we would like to vote against. otherwise the controversial items get pushed to the front and the fact that substantial number of players don't want that change is ignored. you might say that csms have already voted the items into the que. that is true. but then why have this second round of priorities if it is not going to accurately reflect the players wishes? some of the wikis dont even have a link to the thread where the players supposedly supported the proposal. moreover, this assumes that every player wants at least 20 items changed. we can see this is clearly not the case. those who want fewer changes but feel more strongly about them can't reflect that. if you only vote for one thing and because you think that one change is the most important it will still be recorded as if its only one of 20 things that you want. which, of course, is not accurate. had the votes been weighted to better represent the players wishes i would have voted for only 3 or 4 things. but since those votes will automatically be diluted to 1/20th of my wishes anyway, i added a few more. i imagine i am not the only one.i would recommend that if we are going to do this we do it right, so we get an accurate picture of what players want. i'm not sure this is very useful otherwise. it is also sort of changing the rules mid stream. we were under the impression that if an idea got voted in then it would go to ccp and they would prioritize it. its obvious they have pretty much just ignored everything and we have to re-present things. but if you are going to do that at least do it in a way that doesnt have obvious inaccuracies in how it reflects the players views.the fix is easy. it would be much better if every vote was weighted from the first vote not just after 20. moreover you should be able to vote against ideas."
"hirohito sama, pick#34, pick#100, pick#154"
"guillaume leconquerant,34"
"zadus rejan 17,19,23,34,35,77,89,100,103,154,164"
"jane lad 17,19,23,34,35,77,89,100,103,154,164"
"oli csubakka 17,19,23,34,35,77,89,100,103,154,164"
"drmovesalot 17,19,23,34,35,77,89,100,103,154,164"
"boonedoxx 17,19,23,34,35,77,89,100,103,154,164"
"selentia ward, pick #34please please please fix that damn laaag !we need nice fleet battle, huge hit and run and so on..."
"acdc, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"oasio 7 8 10 24 34 74 83 137"
"wot ssox, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"olorgh, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"kenny shrike 3,23,27,32,33,34,35,45,54,58,66,69,75,76,100,107,132,165,167,168"
"what is this, a chicago election?"
"<sirgoone>,pick#3,pick#5,pick#7,pick#10,pick#14,pick#15,pick#30,pick#39,pick#38,pick#35,pick#36,pick#49,pick#97,pick#113,pick#135,pick#166,pick#152,pick#134,pick#103,pick#105<sirgoone>,#3,#5,#7,#10,#14,#15,#30,#39,#38,#35,#36,#49,#97,#113,#135,#166,#152,#134,#103,#105<sirgoone>,3,5,7,10,14,15,30,39,38,35,36,49,97,113,135,166,152,134,103,105"
"the list is quite a mixed bag of things, from cosmetics to global things. which left me wondering for instance about big issues like the \"excellence\" proposal being in the backlog, as it's hardly something you assign a scrum team to do and have it done after a certain amount of time.the list contains duplicate proposals and some that could easily be grouped (for instance a bookmark omnibus proposal). there are also proposals which are explained worse/in less detail in the wiki than how they were presented in the (often multiple) ah threads. even supposing ccp started implementing the csm items in the backlog, this is a potential source for problems for the quality of the implementation: the community often refines ideas after they have been brought up by csm, but \"backlogged\" items are completely static and out of reach. items brought up by the first csms might not even be relevant anymore but they're still there.anyway, my picks:aineko macx,17,22,33,34,35,40,67,86,100,108,111,167,19,45,3,5,14,114,136,7"
"steave435,4,8,12,14,16,19,21,34,45,47,49,53,69,109,110,113,119,136,156,159"
"dr cheeto,3,4,5,7,10,14,39,45,50,54,69,117,119,165,105,107,56,47,19,23"
"alaesar,pick#34seriously, making sure that existing features work correctly and does not generate too much lag has to be the 1st priority./me want to know which feature(s) was(were) added that disable(s) the \"we can have more than small gang warfare in eve\" feature which made eve so cool"
"ravenja,3,5,7,17,19,22,33,34,35,38,40,67,86,100,108,112,114,136,153,167"
"robert71, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"fxandrew, #14, #15, #22, #30, #33, #34, #56, #63, #69, #109, #128, #134, #138, #168"
"khi'gilan, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"well, very good initiative unless i can't see propositions about some persistants broken features that could be so fun :- low sec- bounty systemand some ships need some love (eos for example, totally useless since the drone bandwidth nerf).but +1 with the initiative"
"arcelios lartont,17,100,106,167,140,1,34,99,97,31,111"
"well, the perfect is the enemy of the good. i was trying to make it as easy as possible to register preferences (which is why 20 items, no ordering needed). your comment about weighting the votes simply by number of items voted for was interesting, so i ran the numbers:votes weighted equally up to 20 items per voter.total number of voters = 104item count score popular issue name---- ----- ----- ------- ----------- 34 52 51.90 50.00% commit to excellence (csm) 14 47 46.86 45.19% allign to bookmarks (csm) 39 43 42.86 41.35% corporation bookmarks (csm) 138 40 39.95 38.46% show damaged drones in drone bay (csm) 33 38 37.86 36.54% commit to fixing the ui (csm) 19 33 32.69 31.73% assault frigates 4th bonus (csm) 105 32 31.90 30.77% neuts/nos on overview (csm) 40 31 31.00 29.81% corporation and alliance tool overhaul (csm) 134 30 29.95 28.85% ship fittings visible via show info without boarding ship. (csm) 132 29 28.95 27.88% ship active tank bonus buff (csm) 108 29 28.95 27.88% overhaul of roles and grantable roles system (csm) 136 28 27.69 26.92% show implants on pod killmails (csm) 16 28 27.65 26.92% allow reactivation of accidentally deactivated modules (csm) 69 27 27.00 25.96% fix rockets (csm)votes weighted by number of votes, 20 points allocated per voter.total number of voters = 104item count score popular issue name---- ----- ----- ------- ----------- 34 52 80.69 50.00% commit to excellence (csm) 39 43 56.83 41.35% corporation bookmarks (csm) 14 47 53.32 45.19% allign to bookmarks (csm) 138 40 45.78 38.46% show damaged drones in drone bay (csm) 19 33 42.71 31.73% assault frigates 4th bonus (csm) 40 31 42.67 29.81% corporation and alliance tool overhaul (csm) 33 38 39.68 36.54% commit to fixing the ui (csm) 38 19 39.48 18.27% corp hangar audit logs (csm) 69 27 36.70 25.96% fix rockets (csm) 105 32 35.99 30.77% neuts/nos on overview (csm) 132 29 34.36 27.88% ship active tank bonus buff (csm) 134 30 33.50 28.85% ship fittings visible via show info without boarding ship. (csm) 108 29 32.93 27.88% overhaul of roles and grantable roles system (csm) 16 28 32.42 26.92% allow reactivation of accidentally deactivated modules (csm)it doesn't make that much difference, and the reason my initial thought was not to weight the votes in that way was that it would encourage longer wishlists -- having everyone just vote for \"commit to excellence\" wouldn't be that useful to the task at hand.keep in mind that csm will use these results, plus discussions to determine feasibility and cost, to try and come up with a \"best bang for buck\" list."
"sasha vikos, #1, #3, #14, #34, #66, #67, #69, #45, #134, #139, #164, #169, #48, #56, #87, #115, #142, #140, #38, #33"
"shasis, pick #34eve was so good during the delve 2 war early 2009, with almost no lag during large fleet battles..."
"your analysis to that conclusion is fatally flawed.you are forgetting that since the players *know* the system is set up so that your one vote will not get more priority than counting it as one of 20 people will pick allot of things they otherwise wouldn't. you are now trying to use those extra votes as proof everyone wants about 20 changes anyway, so it doesnt matter. i think thats highly unlikely. like i said if the votes were properly weighted from the first vote i would not have picked 10 items i would have picked 3 or 4. and indeed if you do not change this i will pick 10 more items - not because i care about them in the least - but because i would like them to get bumped above other things that i don't like. which is the *other* problem with this method. substantial dissent in the player base is completely ignored. at least with the assembly hall threads ccp and the csm would have some idea that many people thought the idea was *bad.* here there is nothing like that. controversial items get voted highly even though overall the supporters may be fewer than those who are affirmatively against it! the only way you can compare these results with a poll where the players views are accurately weighed is to have a different poll that weighs the players views accurately  and then compare. as far as all voting for excellence  thats their view thats their view. why try to purposely conceal that? your statement that csm is going to actually use this to gauge the priorities of what they push (despite it being inaccurate) is concerning. why not do something where you get an accurate picture of the players views? like i said the fix is easy."
"zanielyene,1,2,7,9,31,45,49,53,55,50,43,69,97,90,87,110,131,165,129,112"
"lazysiege, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"claytonius3,7,23,38,40,100,108,109,110,112,115.116,134,138,148,154,161,164,165,34,104"
"jawna togoya - 8,14,24,34,38,39,40,97,99,107,108,109,111,132,138,149,164,167"
"matt icy,5,6,8,10,16,33,40,51,84,97,111,113,114,116,118,122,127,128,139,142"
"namek 8,34,39,78,81,83,97,106,111,112,123,131,7,31,52,100,105,135,138"
"luthien bedwyrr #38, #39, #40, #99, #107, #108"
"mark weston 135,134,115,102,97,90,84,62,60,41,38,37,34,33,10"
"aranthil: pick#54, pick#19, pick#35, pick#47, pick#48, pick#105, pick#111, pick#115, pick#121, pick#69forgot the \"make every t2 item better than meta4 counterpart (think plates)\"?thank you again for the time you spend and the efforts you, every people in csm makes, so we enjoy a better eve online."
"tachikomaa,165,19,112,59,23,116,133,97,31,102,96,120,69,31"
"zyklon41,pick#10,pick#19,pick#34,pick#53,pick#76,pick#86,pick#136,pick#139"
"oliv2kenobi,pick#10,pick#19,pick#34,pick#53,pick#76,pick#86,pick#136,pick#139"
"aolvaldr 7, 15, 19, 31, 87, 100, 109, 110, 136, 164"
"hanakar,113,31,69,97,112,23,122,119,100,84,102,67,48,109,111,164,137,136,127,115"
"belixia,#3,#9,#30,#31,#32,#33,#53,#67,#78,#102,#105,#112,#122,#125,#136,#143,#149,#161,#165,#168"
"sky marshal,14,19,23,24,31,33,34,35,40,56,63,69,79,87,100,110,137,143,166,167i don't understand that there is no line about this : <U+FFFD> shield gang bonuses should be applied just like armour ones <U+FFFD> even if it is in the assembly hall from a while. for me it is a priority like the ones i selected above, as shield tank especialy on caldari ships (apart drake and some like him) just... sucks while armor is appreciated nearly everywhere (\"adapt or die\" someone ? and armored cerberus, armored rokh fits someone (yes, it exists...)). shield needs a revamp and at least the first link i just give would be a good start."
"salacious trinity,38,39,40,99,107,108"
"wizardz 10-14-15-43-48-49-87-97-107-109-110-131-133"
"alisea de'ponthieu,38,39,40,99,107,108"
"mashie saldana,5,7,16,19,24,34,43,47,55,69,76,79,85,95,97,100,108,112,115,116"
"frey stormcrow,7,13,15,19,30,47,58,60,61,92,93,96,97,109,110,111,112,168"
"soniccjk, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"#3,#16,#30,#43,#46,#49,#117,#138"
"jormela glim,38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"sakura glim, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"phoenix iv,8,17,19,34,58,60,61,63,65,67,100,115,122,167"
"archetype 66 : #22,#14,#23,#5,#15,#19,#27,#45,#48,#53,#69,#102,#115,#136,#153,#97,#49,#47,#134,#119"
"kampfgoessn,34, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"apostrophe ampersand 11, 33, 139, 31, 56, 16, 51, 52, 46, 97, 19, 154, 39, 49, 116, 53, 69, 120, 109, 165"
"calioril, 34, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"kampfsocke, 34, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"lalwende, 34,39,49,75,86,110"
"motigor 38, 39, 40, 99, 107"
"alvin exe pick #33,#34,#69,#45,#115,#131,#152"
"robina sudarsky,38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"magnus orin,pick#8,pick#10,pick#12,pick#19,pick#21,pick#48,pick#49,pick#75,pick#79,pick#112,pick#116,pick#137,pick#149,pick#154,pick#168,pick#146,pick#4,pick#6,pick#7,pick#34"
"friedman, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108, 34, 14, 33, 105, 134, 48, 113, 97, 66, 114, 168, 53, 138, 15"
"avams, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"why not to bump with so many supporties."
"fw is already blobby. don't need to get blobby in high sec with the broken ass war dec mechanics."
"api improvements :yesspacebook... hell yes"
"want pop a blob? take a bigger one. simples. this is not a single player game.did that answer your question?i've no idea why your so fixated on our kb, it has nothing to do with the topic in hand. then again, that appears to be what you do in any thread you disagree with. why don't you man up and admit you dislike this idea because it will have a negative affect on you."
"ty for that \"argument\" because u just proved my point when it leads to a. how profitable it would be to split the rewards with the huge blob 'cause it's not enough to even bother and b. how practical it would be for ppl with real-life obligations to even attempt this profession without this huge blob--it's suicide. that's definitely what low sec needs, another incentive to blob... then again, we all know u were not aiming to make low sec bounty hunting accessible, practical, profitable or worthwhile at all 'cause that would indeed have a negative effect on u and your corp. and for some reason, what if they do bring a bigger blob to counter yours? u dock, afk, and pull out your mining alt, trying to hide in 100% safety, wasting their time? that's what i thought. fyi, u're the one who mentioned looking at your fudged killboard in the first place or did u already forget in ignorance? and fyi, having your corp founder lie on your behalf about your killboard and get caught doing it does not reflect well on u, let alone, your corp. so why don't u man up and admit that u're only pushing your proposal because in actuality, it would not have a negative effect on u or your corp?"
"sigh...here we go againdeviating from the topic at hand in desperation. i bought up the killboard originally to show you that i have not been suicide ganked, that's all. this was a few posts ago when you were trying to show that this was a nerf to your favourite activity.your comments are not bringing anything constructive to this thread at all, end of story. i have tried to answer your concerns, but frankly you have yet to raise a single one that is relevant to the topic in hand. i will let neo comment further on your inability to read a kb, that should be a good laugh..tbh what our corp does and does not do has nothing to do with the idea anyway. it stands or falls on its merits. so far, your the only person to object to the idea and im betting most people will see right through your \"argument\"or should i say tears"
"once again, u brought the killboard up in the first place in relation to the thread so i'm responding to it. if anyone's trying to deviate from the topic in desperation, it's a. your corp founder for bringing it up again and b. u since in your ignorance, u refuse to answer the arguments against your proposal. tbh, what your corp does is prove that your proposal will have no effect on low sec bounty hunting and that's why other ppl have objected to it but of course, u remain blissfully ignorant, as usual. go ahead and ignore them but once again, don't be surprised when your proposal just sits here and collects space dust. your ignorance, your loss, your fault.p.s. don't forget to spam that \"report\" button some more, like u always do, before u cry your own tears. oh wait..."
"this is the nature of eve - blobs are blobs. however if you want an answer, it's worth noting that given you are singling out \"pirate blobs\"; on the assumption these are real pirates; then they will carry a security status rating of below -5.0 this means they are flashy and by implication you are free to take your own gang to deal with the \"adds\". if your complaining about blobs in general play, then thats a different conversation; and respectfully i say youre playing the wrong game. star trek online has balanced pvp sides, i suggest you check it out. this idea guards against people using suicide tactics and then running away to rat sec back up. at least empire would be more difficult for them.i really really really dont know where you are looking but when i look at damts board it is api verified for kills. yours on the other hand, is not, well at least were your hulk ganks are concerned, your other alliance mates seem to have no issues using a verified api feed, why is it a problem for you? you are trolling and youre a fail troll; i dont even know why i am bothering to feed you. (merin, is that you)?... so hang on, our board has the marker for \"api verified\" on almost all the kills over the last month and i am lying? fail troll is fail. anyone with half a brain can see you are simply de-railing the topic with zero data to back up your comments. protip, go to your killboard (fail alliance or whatever you are called  you use eve-kill same as us). click on the last 3 kills in separate windows. you will see that your miner gank is not api verified, and johivan clauses kill is. and i am a lier? if i am telling lies, you are in need of spectacles.be honest the reason you are angry about this is because you spend all your time (if your none api verified killboard is to be believed) suiciding miners in essence. only 15 of your 80 kills are against none miners. you are concerned that if a miner is able to sell (or somehow facilitate) his kill rights moving to someone with teeth you will be found out - your gravy train of fun will end and you might actually have to start caring about risk and reward beyond \"will my insurance pay for this\".we (as a corp), sometimes do suicide gank; usually we do this between infiltrations of corps and other scams. frankly id welcome the people we wrong being able to sell the rights to kill us - it would make our lives more interesting. its actually better for us right now; last week pindle had a 50 mill bounty put on his head - its like the person that applied the bounty actually wanted to give us 50 million. how sensible is that as a system? its not.you are a troll sir, and a terrible one at that. ban 2008's tbh."
"anna,there is a reason your getting reported and your posts blocked. that reason is they are troll posts, and the forum moderators agree with me, but i suppose they are wrong as well....try and put your argument in a concise manner (if you can), our corp and its activities has nothing to do with the proposal at all.argue against it properly, or not at all."
"1. and the blobs r what breaks this proposal. all u're doing is adding a miniscule incentive to take them on.2. qft--suicide gank whine.it's because u're trying to de-rail the topic at hand, something u and gal r accusing me of. btw, i use battleclinic, in addition to eve-kill. should have no problem submitting your api there too, especially since 20ish api checks can be viewed at the same time. and u think that's somehow less \"honorable\" from blobbing everything in low sec? here's the thing--if the exhumer kills were really fake, then i wouldn't care about suicide gank nerfs in the first place. and u r concerned that your gravy train of free isk behind the \"safety\" of high sec isn't 100% safe when u can't avoid the consequences of hiding behind your alts when things aren't going your way for your pirate main. can't fight back with your alt? then either train him to do so or deal with the consequences of hiding behind a weak char.and replacing this system with another broken one is sensible? it's not either. i liked how u say \"ban 2008s\" though--it really helps your side out..."
"lol i give up. ;) idea supported, /thumbs up."
"major oceanne, signed"
"i found a mag in drone regions last night, after 9 months of looking i finally found one. haven't found a radar in 6 months either. fix the spawn rates ccp. but they probably wont so i'm just wasting my time trying to get them to actually do something their customers want. i used to average 2-3 bug reports a month, now i don't even bother because with ccp's recent track record i have a feeling they're just getting ignored."
"men please all !ask all your corporation friends to join here and sign :-)more we are louder we are !"
"signed.................."
"signed"
"signed and supported"
"signed"
"for an auxiliary power core to be better than a rcu ii the ship need to have less than 66.(66) power grid.. and by that i mean base power grid, with engineering skill at level 0.thrasher and coercer have more than 66.(66) while catalyst and cormorant have less. on first ones use rcu ii and on the other two use micro auxiliary power core.hope that clarifies the issue."
"and you gain a cool 2 grid with decent skills. now, if you are that short it's good, but since with a mapc you can normally fit them unless you try to put things at random, i'd say that the additional cpu the rcu2 requires is much more important than the 2 grid over the mapc. and i never, ever, needed to fit a named mapc to any frigate i ever flew. if the problem is you don't have enough fitting skills then don't complain on the module, train those skills."
"this is just a thought. mining crystals are colored differently depending on the ore in the pictures you load into the miners. why not change the color of the beams to reflect those? i don't imagine changing the colors of an already existing code would take more than 15 minutes, but i don't know code either. thoughts?"
"just thought of a caveat. maybe not bright blazing colors like the weaponized lasers, but a hue added to the original strip miner beam animation."
"moved from jita park speakers corner."
"everything better than interceptors + everything better than frigates + higher dps than some afs = needs 'balanced'. killed a bunch of them solo in specifically fit t1 cruisers"
"half the ship's dps comes from its drones and those can be removed easily, they are not bonused. in fact you should view the dramiel as the vagabond of frigates. over average survivability with a specific list of targets. if you want to counter and kill one instead of just chasing it away you need to force its pilot in an unfavourable situation by playing on his over confidence.if anything should be contested about it is how well this vaga-like role scales within the ship class. comparing the dramiel to other frigates is hard when the only viable t2 face to face combat frigates are the interceptors.tl;dr adapt or die htfu etc"
"you can look at any pirate faction frigate: dramiel, succubus, daredevil. theyre all exceptional in certain fields. dramiel is not special in that view. a succubus or daredevil can beat a dramiel easily, if they get a tackle. daredevil is gallente style (pure blasterdps), succubus represents the amarrian way (dps/neuts), finally the dramiel is fast and agile like minmatar are supposed to be. also pirate faction battleships like machariel, vindicator, bhaalgorn are alot stronger or have better boni than other ships of that class. they all have their special field theyre good at. blasterdps, neuts, webs, speed and agility.we can also play this game with vigilants, cynabals, ashimmus for pirate faction cruisers. its exactly the same. those pirate-ships are just better than their common counterparts. they have higher boni, more hitpoints, more fitting slots and more fitting resources to use the additional slots. ccp stated shipquality in eve is like this:t1 ships < navy faction ships < t2 ships < pirate faction shipsand thats it. dramiels and nearly all other pirate ships fit in this sceme. also the price reflects this^^ if you pay 90 mill for a frigate, 200 mill for a cruiser or 700-800 mill for a bs, it must be good. and still: if you fit a cheaper ship as a counter you can still beat dramiels and stuff. its not like youre unvulnerable. i dont understand why everybody wants to nerf dramiels....maybe ppl are angry they cant kill it with their crows and rifters^^"
"the problem is, at the frigate level, speed is by far the most important. daredevil's blaster dps can't compare to bigger ships dps, neither can succubus' small neuts compare to large neuts. seriously, what's the point? they don't even track. but dramiel's forte, speed, obviously beats larger ships. it just so happens that dramiel's speciality is op when in frigate form, while all other frig's are pointless.it's not that dramiel can't be popped, but rather that other frigs need a reason to exist. and no, small neuts and loldps out of small blasters don't cut it."
"forgot one the worm and its not terribly exceptional at anythingto the original comment about faction frigs being exceptional in certain fields why should a dramiel be able to tank, dps, and burn faster then inty's at the same time? it needs to be gimped so that you can make it great at one or two of the above not all three.mongo"
"incarna is just a stupid little game giving cowardly station-hugging carebears something to do while being camped. if theyre camped theyre not supposed to be \"enjoying\" it. this is just ccp catering to carebears some more."
"that's one of the most ridiculous statements i've ever read."
"thumbs up to this post this explains it all.....and i myselfs can't await for incarna coming out it will be a completely new experience and just add more fun to the game therefor i don't support the proposal from the op."
"hahahaha...the thypical rant coming from a bored and frustrated ganker and only on combat concentrated player waiting for their prey beeing that stupid to undock and filling your killboard.....eyy no thanks....some peoples learned out from their experience so you can sit out there and wait until you get even more bored and frustrated while waiting floating infront a station.carebears even if most of the meaning is insultive is a style to play the game and many peoples are proud beeing and performing carebears and never forget at some day the carebears may strike back :"
"qft. it's hard to say \"this won't hurt you\" at this point. not only is incarna's diversion of resources putting back many worthwhile amendements, refinements and fixes 18 months; but you have no idea what impact having 20000 people sitting idle in a space bar, shopping for a new amarrian holy hoodie, playing quafe pong or bumping avatars in the minmatar gay rights league disco will have on the wider eve server performance.most people's objection to incarna boils down to a failure to perceive what it's going to add to their eve experience; to wit, internet spaceships. and fear that, in fact, it will merely add to the stresses placed on the system - leading to a degradation in their game experience.now, if ccp came out and said \"hey, we're going make our own eve second life and bung it on an entirely seperate server so it has zero impact whatsoever on real eve and you don't ever have to interact with hermaphrodite amarrian furs wearing disco lights in the docking bay....\" i'd be less opposed to incarna. but they haven't. so, i anticipate incarna drawing further resource away from the things i care about in eve and having a negative impact on fleet fight lag."
"i would be perfectly happy if incarna never happens but instead we get bug fixes for the next 18 months."
"you probably wouldn't be. very few bug fixes or balance changes make it past this community without being whined about."
"incarna will be on a second server running next to the one with your precious spaceships on it, if anything you'll see a drop in lag when incarna arrives with there being less people in space."
"it could be like ww2 where the allies had an entire \"fake\" army which caused the germans to places units in areas where there was no threat.could be great for faction and 0.0 ware-fare... holo skill: +1 ship projected prelevel at level 5 you can have 5 ships orbit you....you will need to train for each type a ship, like holo frigates and holo bc will be two different skills that need to be trainedjust another idea to make it \"harder\""
"a similar idea has been thought of before. check out rixx javix's blog post about the 'chameleon module' over here. maybe get in touch with him and his corpmate; you could try to combine the two ideas.so long as there are counters to the final product, then i'll be willing to support it."
"as soon as the holo ship, or the ship using the holo device takes damage it two things could happen.1. the ship turns back into its natural form 2. the ship will have a visual that looks like its try to switch back but the holo projectors have not taken enough damage to go offline."
"obligatory spy sappin meh rifter"
"at the moment i find it silly that corp contracts have the same 2 weeks life expectancy of the public contracts. many corps want to have buy/sell orders that appeal to the corp members alone, for industry or ship replacement programs. but having the same contract lifetime of the public contracts(2 weeks) makes it pretty bothersome.this is how i would like it to be: \"lost your [insert fleet ship here] in a fleet fight? buy another one for cheap straight off alliance contracts.\"at the moment something like that is not convenient to set up at all, due to the 14 day contract limit."
"issuer column in market browseradd a column in the market browser that shows the name of the issuer of each buy and sell order. this simple and seemingly minor change would at best greatly deepen the gameplay of eve, and at worst change nothing. greater transparency would allow traders and manufacturers to better size up their competition, and this could subsequently result in a lot of fun! cartels for various products could be organized/broken up, wars could be declared against key competitors in attempt to hamper their operations, etc.edit: grammar"
"if it is just about getting the names of the competition ... you could just buy/sell a single item. pretty easy. works already. doesnt require a single piece of work from ccp."
"this is true; however, that will only serve to give you the name of the person with the lowest sell or highest buy order at any one time, and it is somewhat less viable for very highly priced items. the key here is that this small change would generate new transparency."
"only if there are multiple orders for the same item in the same station. for the other stations it works nicely."
"researching issuers by using single-item transactions is not only limited to highest buy/lowest sell orders for single stations (and only a handful of stations account for a huge proportion of eve item movement), it only gives that information to the single individual who made those transactions. an issuer column would make this information available to everyone!edit: this is op, and, supporting my own idea."
"all i'm reading is: \"someone crashed my market so i want to find out who and wardec them.\""
"i don't think this is a valuable addition to eve;. besides, the whole point of scc is non-discousure of personality."
"what will greater transperancy allow you to acheive? it won't change who you can buy and sell from - the market will still function in exactly the same way, so at best you can say \"oh! i hate them! i'm not buying that here!\" and fly to another station.woop-dee-doo.as far as wardeccing your competition, you'll never get to a wardec to work against most of the high volume traders simply because they use dedicated trade alts who never undock. you're welcome to wardec them, but you're flushing isk down the toilet."
"on the contrary, i've crashed a few small markets before and gotten a couple rage eve mails for it also, the single item transaction that darius mclever mentions would be sufficient for me if what you say was the case.eh? then why do you get the issuer names once transactions are completed, or in all of the contract markets?the transparency allows for another avenue of conflict to take place between the players. players can, do, and should adjust what they manufacture and trade as the market shifts; allowing everyone to know the identities of all issuers makes it easier for players to collaborate with each other and/or screw each other in market activities. merely knowing the number of individuals involved in a market, or how large the entities they belong to are, can effect trading/production decisions. this is a closer approximation of real world markets, and the robust and almost entirely player-driven market in eve is one of its greatest accomplishments over other mmos.also, like i said, the worst that could happen is people would behave exactly the same as they do currently. the best would be that the new information would make the game deeper."
"this is already possible, jet cargo > target can > fire at canif your in a freighter then you should not be traveling with valuables alone."
"escorts: they're not just for after hours frivolity anymore."
"you have to realize that you are sorting a character string and not a numeric value.\" \" < 0-9 in a character string.so string \"10\" < \"2 \".what needs to be added is an additional field of custom sort order."
"by system or even more in depth by planet/moon location. -allows for corporations to delegate management of 1 or more towers to members, not all or none. this lets the ceo or director set a member as 'in charge' of that particular tower's(group's) fuel/reactions/production.-reduces corporate risk on high value materials, reactions, or production as well as strategically sensitive assets. possibly even extend that to what towers they are able to pos gun.-at current, just because a member is trusted enough to run a reaction (offline modules) in one area, doesn't mean you really want them to be able to offline your jump bridge in a different system."
"hell yes."
"hehyou do realize that absolutely nothing regarding poses is going to get throughthe whole system is broken, ccp knows it's broken, and we're stuck with the broken system for a year and a half"
"supporting ..."
"year and a half, optimistic aren't we? it will be that long minimum until the tide changes that change will likely be to expand incarna beyond the infancy it will be delivered in or any number of other things ccp wants to do, not the players. you could hope for real change in 2+ years the soonest.supporting another idea ccp will put on the back burner out in the back by the volcanic ash they use to fertilize their spring flowers."
"absolutely supported!"
"supported, even though what hesays is probably right."
"ccp is deathly afraid of touching any pos related codes. no point beating a dead horse. this idea will soon join all the other pos related ones in the graveyard."
"just dropping this here.not that i don't support."
"hm... an industry supercapital is not a bad idea. now... it would of course not be able to build capitals or supercapitals, but it could be pretty good at building subcapital ships. the cargo size of the ship would have to be made to neither reach or get over 1,000,000m3 though, so that it retains the intent of ccp to not be able to haul freighters."
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?jepwere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?got the announcement through rss, but totally forgot about it later on.maybe a second rss feed on the testing day would helpregarding the rest: no additional motivation needed for joining the mass testing"
"where's the voting part?"
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test?no. never got past the queue to log in to sisiwhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)small sov holding corpdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights?fights big enogh to lag: yes, big fleet fights: nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anythingno-sisi patching was too hard, gave upno -generally didnt careno-wasn't aware of itmaybe-scheduled at a bad timeno-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify)n/a-other please specifythe only time i have tryed to help out in a mass test, i was in the login queue for a long time and ended up giving up on logging in to sisi to help.would you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?it will not change if i will participate in a mass fight. it was fun to play around with supercap last time, but that will be better for a week or so if ccp vant to test something with caps.would you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?i dont know what you are asking aboutwould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?i can only think of one fc that i will go out of my way to come fly under and he is not playing eve any more.if they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?maybe, but most likely in a bomber to bomb the **** out of it ;) but if you mean allowing ccp to **** the code up in a real fleet fight: nowhat sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?all but fights in throw away shipswould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?doing work hours? no but in the weekend yesis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?not that i can think off"
"it seems in this case \"poll\" meant \"q and a\""
"have you ever participated in a sisi mass test? nowhat role do you play in eve? (smallcorp/bigcorp/alliance highsec/lowsec/0.0 resident)ceo of a small corp at the moment. some high sec, some low sec, a little bit of null roamingdo you regularly participate in big 0.0 fleet fights? nowere any of these factors the reason you have been prevented in participating in a mass test on sisi?-didn't believe the test would accomplish anything yes-sisi patching was too hard, gave up no-generally didnt care no-wasn't aware of it once, yes-scheduled at a bad time almost always, yes. the coming one is scheduled during my work hours-previous tests were poorly conducted so i no longer participated(please specify) no-other please specify a big factor in my unwillingness to use sisi is how utterly ****ed it always is. right now you can't use the overview, can't link anything, can't really use chat, the npc text randomly shrinks down to nothing in some windows, etca few weeks ago you couldn't right click anything. the place is always broken, how they will make it work for a test is beyond mewould you participate in a sisi mass test if they gave you perks you would never get on tq like max skillpoints, or supercaps?that would be nice, obviously but the main thing they could do to get me to participate is schedule it at a time that i could attend easily and make it so its not a total nightmare to log onto that serverwould you participate in a sisi mass test if there was a tq tournament going on that required it(specifically, the sort of player-run sort of events that don't involve creation of isk)?not in the current state of the sisi server/client, no. if fixed, surewould you participate in a sisi mass test if someone really famous and well liked commanded the fleet on sisi?lol noif they used code injection on tq in a fleet fight but only if both parties consented, and everyone knew in advance that there would be no reimbursement just like usual, would you ever consent to participating in the test(although this question is probably moot unless you're an fc, i'd also like to know if this idea ****es you off a lot or if you think it's a good idea)?that would be fine with me. if they ever want to have some huge fleet fight here and announce it ahead of time, i'd be glad to take a frig or a cruiser over there to help test. if they'd just warp everyone to the location so i don't have to jump, i'd be about 99% sure to do itwhat sort of situations would be excluded from ever being tested if ccp refused to give reimbursement for deaths incurred during tq code injection ****ups?no idea. i suppose i would not be willing to risk anything very nice, or risk pos's or anything like that if there's no reinbursementwould you ever participate in any sort of sisi mass testing if there was no immediate and direct isk reward on tq?sureis there anything major that this survey has missed that you think could greatly help the testing effort?i think the #1 thing ccp needs to fix about sisi is the download and install process. that needs to be made easier and they need to schedule regular tests on weekends so people can participate, and especially they need to fix the sisi client so that people don't literally laugh out loud at the thought of doing anything over there"
"here's a simple solution for test participation pl csm. order all your naped pets to attend or threaten them with a true reset and the problem is solved. you should get 5k participants at least."
"so you keep saying. can you cite some examples, or is this just prc doing a rather feeble \"everyone knows...\" attempt to discredit them?specifically: which of the proposals voted in by this csm are solely to do with their \"petty wants\"?"
"everything in eve is pvp. industry = pvptrading = pvpcombat = pvpforums = (more often than not) pvpit is the core driving force of the economy. comparisons with other mmo's don't cut it, because there is nothing like eve. no other mmo has an economy which models the real world so accurately. it is driven by conflict, at a variety of levels. playing word games will not change this fact, no amount of claiming that industry and mining are not about competing for limited resources is merely denying reality.the whole reason eve is eve is because of the competition (and yes, co-operation) that occurs between players, any attempt to remove that at any level will remove the thing that makes eve what it is. if you don't want to play eve, the solution is simple; don't play eve. don't argue for its destruction from within.eve is pvp, it is not necessarily combat however."
"didn't realise that the peoples republic of china had any interest in eve - you learn something new everyday .but to the general crux of you post. pretty much every one of them in this players humble opinion falls into the category of \"petty wants\". i know that in the 5 or so years i have played this game, i have never experienced any of the issues that keep getting dragged out as reasons behind what is being put forward as \"issues\" (lag aside). and i'm obviously not alone in this view. go through the assembly hall and all of the issues are lucky to get more than a smattering of people agreeing or even discussing it. seriously - look at any issue and out of the 350,000 odd current account holders of the game, the \"highest\" level of concern elicits maybe 300 posts?? so if these are such \"big\" issues, why is it that only a very, very small - but apparently very very whiny - minority even bother to discuss it.and if you want more proof - trebor posts a request for people to go through the current outstanding list of csm concerns - and in 3 days has gained only 70 indications of support, and not many more actually bothered to even respond!! as an aside, the guy is to be admired for persistence, and with mynxee - they seem to be the only two actually trying to make csm work. of this whole debacle, these two are the only rays of sunshine and the only ones truly committed to making this work. they are failing not through any fault of their own, but more pften than not its through the \"support\" of idiots like that finnagain person. sometimes though you can't choose your friends.but back on topic. lag issue aside - as this is the only really serious concern at present - even ccp haven't really been that interested in the \"list of complaints\". if i was ccp, i would just take every csm report ever written and just write \"htfu\" next to each bullet point.so why the lack of interest in the 320,000 players who ignore the whole csm charade? the answer is that these \"issues\" are all just manufactured by a small group of fanbois keen to push their own agendas to show the world (ie, each other), just how big their epeens are. it is seriously laughable.you keep asking for some sort of proof to validate claims that i and others make about why this is all just a pathetic waste of time. well for proof you need look no further than at the current state of the whole csm process, the current state of ccp promises to \"fix\" the issues that the csm keep raising adnauseum and the complete lack of faith in the player base in the current system of \"stellar management\".face it, aside from a very few dedicated people, some very deranged and obsessive fanbois, and one or two people at ccp, the csm could pack up tomorrow and 99% of the player base would be none the wiser as to it's passing."
"spotted: prc shill driven utterly insane by the pressure of trying to argue for the game being without flaw and the csm being horrible, as proven by the fact that csm wants to fix things and ccp is stonewalling them and nobody else can gather and voice player concerns (which don't exist anyways, because the game is perfect and without flaw)."
"with all due respect, first of all it isn't a proposal, thus supports are irrelevant. and secondly, in the first 4 pages of the thread, 108 people took the time to go through that 160+ item list and enter their picks.the people who do take the time to contribute are going to influence csm's prioritization; the squeaky wheel gets the grease, after all. which means that if csm has any effect on ccp dev-time allocations, their pet-peeves will be more likely to get addressed -- and if csm has no influence, you can bet csms like mynxee and myself will make this abundantly clear. we were elected to be advocates for the players, and we take that very seriously.if ccp really considers csm to be a cynical pr exercise, then the current council has clearly demonstrated that it is not cost-effective.which is all the more reason for csm-skeptics to support the efforts of the csm!"
"i don't think anyone is advocating that a relatively new player be elected to the chairperson of the csm, rather that there should be some consideration for the newer players of the game. i think the confusion arose with the use of the word \"chair\".back on the topic though, the complexities of the game are not some mystical thing that only the aged and wizened veterans can understand. they are just game mechanics afterall and there is a lot of commonality in this game and other mmo's. i know from experience, there are plenty of much more complex and intricate systems around than eve online. to myself though, to use this as an excuse for effectively excluding the majority of the player base is disheartening. what is surprising and alarming though is that whilst there is a recognition from ccp and csm members themselves, that the csm is struggling to gain recognition with the larger player base, members of it, as well as it's advocates, are at the same time arguing that it should not be actively looking at recruiting from a greater variety of the player base.if an attitude like this is adhered to, all you gain is a continuing alienation of the players who the csm is supposed to be representing. you may feel like you are doing them all a favor, but they will see things as being completely the opposite.i know people appreciate the work that you put into the mynxee and your attitudes to the player base as a whole - but it does seem to be lost of others within the csm (as well as some of the more vocal participants on the forums)."
"i agree with mynxee, to be effective on the csm you need to have a proper and thorough understanding of the game, and with eve's complexity that can take a while.but new player concerns are definately taken into account! i know i have voted on issues one way or another based on how they would impact new pilots. while i'm not a newbie anymore, i do spend most of my ingame time interacting with new pilots (in eve university )."
"agony also teach a fair number of newer players as well as older players who are just new to pvp. that experience is vital when considering the impact of proposals."
"the discussion about turnout is a rabbit trail. the bandwagon fallacy doesn't determine validity of anything, let alone the impact of elected officials. if anything, those who don't vote aren't effecting the nature of the csm. they're not displaying anything about the csm itself, only people's reaction to it. if 5 people vote for the ceo of an organization, for example, that doesn't make his decisions impotent. it merely removes their choice of selecting a representative for their vision for the firm. the csm is the only player-group that is guaranteed to have the ear of the developers and is able to craft cohesive and coherent proposals that reflect the community's needs and desires. if a large percentage of people refuse to make sure that candidates who reflect their views are on the csm, then they've only got themselves to blame if their views aren't represented ont eh csm. as it is, this csm has, at the very least, focused attention on ccp's bottlenecking and failure in vision and has enabled media attention to be focused on ccp... which may be the only thing that can jolt them out of their cocoon at this point."
"minutes if anyone's interested, since apparently linking them is too hard for the secretary.oops, wait, i voted for the secretary. much love!"
"so if the player base (who are supposed to be represented by this group) think that the csm is joke and act towards it accordingly (by ignoring its existence), and ccp don't listen to a thing that the csm propose beyond offering an acknowledging nod of the head and some free booze, this all somehow in your tiny brain makes it all legitimate and everything is right in the world and as to media attention ... one article written in massively does not a media storm make . have a browse through all of the other mmo based media and you will hear barely a whisper on anything related to this (beyond the standard *****ing in the forums). so if this is to be a gauge of the csm's abilities, we better hope that someone doesn't drop a wet paper bag on their collective heads. they'd suffocate before it could be removed.still if it wasn't for the csm and fanbois like yourself, we'd have nothing to laugh at on a daily basis."
"a summarized version would be nice, but some of the stuff that's in there is intersting and worth checking the raw text. for instance:the csm has their work cut out for them (sov structure hitpoints, really?). hopefully they can continue to exert pressure, both directly and indirectly. before the flurry of media attention (unfortunately focused on fleet lag and not so much ccp's disdain for polishing all of their features) we had absolutely no traction. hell, before the summit and zulu's blog post, we didn't even know what was going on with ccp. the csm has at least clarified it, and the situation called down enough media attention that, at the very least, ccp realizes that there's a problem with the 'brand' they have set up. it's a solid start."
"i was hoping to have the summary versions ready before linking all the minutes, but in future i will link the raw logs in the interim. there is quite a bit of discussion going on between ccp and csm right now, which coupled with the company i work for being taken over has reduced the amount of eve/csm time i have available. trebor (as vice-secretary) offered to do the summary version of the minutes (he did meeting 3 as well) which once i have will be published and linked etc.for the moment the raw logs and voting summaries are available on the csm database which (as designed) is very quick and easy for me to update straight after the meetings. pdf and wiki summaries will be linked from there and this thread once available.once the work takeover is completed i will be unemployed for a while and thus will have plenty of time for csm work"
"this is just a thought. mining crystals are colored differently depending on the ore in the pictures you load into the miners. why not change the color of the beams to reflect those? i don't imagine changing the colors of an already existing code would take more than 15 minutes, but i don't know code either. thoughts?"
"just thought of a caveat. maybe not bright blazing colors like the weaponized lasers, but a hue added to the original strip miner beam animation."
"moved from jita park speakers corner."
"the only way i could agree to this, is if concord responce time was reduced to make up for itno insurance, 50% longer responce time.sounds fine"
"here"
"supported.ccp: there are over 2500 posts in this thread alone. perhaps it's time to pay attention?"
"supported"
"first time i am losing my faith in ccp in over 4 years of playing this game..."
"ccp can you please react ?"
"supported.oh yeah we definitly need ccp's profits to pay some idiot's personnal debt :p"
"are you kidding? there's no way they react to that with anything other than pr doubletalk. perhaps if they first buy out the guy's stake in the company, but even then it's unlikely."
"signed and supported by gotta fizz!!"
"1.0"
"88 page thread needs to turn 100 for celebrations."
"+1 from me.but in this form, it is, unfortunately, useless.give them rfc-s (request for changes). instead of small examples, write exactly down, where the bugs are, and what the players want to get changed. with the petition in this form, you only give he"
"1.0"
"supported"
"supported"
"1.0"
"i was curious how this thread was going, i see that goumindong hasn't ceased to try and derail things. i still support some sort of change to rails either along the lines suggested or as part of a broader effort to change hybrids as a whole, blasters aren't exactly doing that great either."
"almost as good as haircuts in space!"
"supported!most there changes could be done within a week. do it ccp."
"helps if i remember to give the thumbs up"
"thumbs down. magno sites are fine in low/null sec. i've gotten at least 9 intact armor plates off of them in the last month and a half, not to mention the amount of other t2 salvage, t2 rigging bpc's and the insane amount of salvage you can pull out of these sites. op is complaining about high sec sites or op is \"doing it wrong.\" take your pick.exploration is one profession that needs very, very little love."
"yeah, they're pretty terrible in a lot of lowsec. as others have mentioned, they can be ok in some regions because some t2 salvage (particularly from bloods/sanshas - intact armor plates and capacitor consoles, nom nom nom) is very rare/dear, while other npcs have few/no high value salvage types. serpentis sites in particular have basically no worthwhile drops.(and then you get doubly-screwed if you live/explore in gallente lowsec because of the lack of higher-end ded plexes; it's 4/10s or nowt for you, bucko)"
"vod**** - 4, 14, 34, 39, 54, 115"
"everseeker,8,10,14,21,22,33,45,50,67,80,87,97,111,112,127,131,136,139,156,164+1 to entry 999 - fix lag:)"
"rellick: 7, 14, 16, 19, 35, 39, 50, 71, 86, 97, 109, 112, 113, 116, 136, 139, 154"
"siiee: 8, 12, 15, 21, 22, 30, 35, 34, 51, 52, 31, 53, 74, 122, 100, 102, 105, 112, 113, 109"
"rantuket, #15, #19, #24, #25, #45, #48, #53, #66, #69, #75, #79, #132, #136, #153"
"slyferz: 4,10,14,19,33,34,35,39,40,50,78,87,100,109,136,150,151,154,160,165"
"zion89 ,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"xtops,6,8,10,12,14,15,17,19,22,23,33,34,43,48,54,61,66,69,77,82,84,86,97,100,112,113,124,127,152,167,164,138"
"ophelia ursus,7,9,14,15,19,21,25,34,39,46,47,53,98,102,105,122,131,137,164,167"
"tora ferenoth ,14,23,38,39,40,99,107,108"
"yarkhan, #168,#133,#23,#24,#15,#34,#64"
"goodboy theking , #15#25#39#45#51#52#59#66#76#105#136#168"
"avalon champion : #1,#3,#7, #10, #19, #33 (prefer ccp actually fix,,..), #45, #51,#52,#54, #97,#98,#105, #131, #136,#152"
"38 39 40 99 107"
"dhoz, pick#34,pick#100,pick#154"
"eemy blackdalia,pick#34,pick#100,pick#154"
"venkmann, pick#34,pick#100,pick#154"
"draskhirian,pick#34,pick#45,pick#120,pick#136,pick#135"
"this is a great initiative, working in an it space and having experience in application development i would like to just propose a number of suggestions:1. review the existing list of items  a number of people already pointed out that some of the items seem to repeat or be very similar in nature so i would suggest consolidating them, also a number of items seem to have already been addressed by ccp and may need to be removed. this would have the benefit of the community/csm not looking stupid and when submitting a list that has not been properly reviewed prior as well as taking some ownership on delivering ccp with the most meaningful information possible.2. elaborate on the description of some issues  reading through the list i found that some issues are not clearly explained, i personally was a bit confused on what the actual request was. from personal expertise i found that delivering clear and simple requirements to vendors/developers is crucial in the success of achieving the goal of requested development. i personally believe this would reduce misinterpretation, and result in ccps cleared understanding of what is being requested. 3. categorise the items  im suggesting to categorise the items into the following categories to make it easier for both the players and ccp to clearly see the areas where the changes requested lie, and hence be in a position to assign the right teams:a. bug fixes  items which have been identifies as bugs, i.e. elements in the game which do not behave/work as was intended/defined by ccp.b. rebalancing  items which require some changes to their attributes to be made for them to behave/work as originally portrayed/intended by ccps.c. new ideas  items which require the implementation of new functions/feature in the game.from ccp i would suggest the csm requests the following:1. comeback with estimated effort required in implementing each item on the list categorised into the following:a. easy  items which are relatively easy and simple to implement, items which only require a single resource (or a very small number of resources) to implement i.e. such items are generally considered as quick wins.b. medium  items which require medium effort of implementation, usually involves a small team of resources or one resources dedication for implementation, such items usually require a bit more thinking and time.c. hard  items which require a significant amount of code rehashing or new code to be written, such items generally might require a number of resources from various teams to work together to achieve the outcomes. such items are usually lengthy and costly to implement.2. comeback with a strategy in dealing with these items, essentially its the priority from ccps perspective they think should be assigned to the items on the list, i would categorise them in the following way:a. not happening  items which ccp does not want to implement at all.b. next patch  items which ccp could release in the next patch (not expansion pack), usually they are the easy (quick wins) items.c. next expansion pack  items which ccp could release in the new expansion pack, maybe the starting point for all this work will actually be the expansion pack after the upcoming one since its might be too late in the development queue to add them.d. soon  well basically i dont see the point of breaking it down into any more detail as this is too far away in the development pipeline and ccps priorities might change by then. but at least this way people can see which items are currently flagged as low priority and will be addressed some time in the future"
"issue #163 has already been resolved. you can now click on the name to get information about the chat invitee."
"20 108 164 32 97"
"cuchulin,4,10,12,13,14,19,33,34,56,69,76,79,96,97,110,122,135,160,164,168"
"laedy #61, #65, #69, #67, #102, #115, #122, #127, #134, #131, #137, #14, #19, #21, #32, #129, #135, #33, #35, #45"
"tekai foo,33,34,24,66,166,25,13,14,145,108,93,83,40,137,148,107,81,40,30,101"
"janice khan 122, 127, 134, 131, 129, 135, 33, 35, 45, 61, 65, 69, 67, 102, 115, 21, 32, 137, 14, 19"
"chrysta phine 21,32,19,61,65,131,129,69,122,137,14,127,134,67,102,33,35,45,135,115"
"farinet:34,14,167,39,7,110,127,51,54,8,87,109,160,147,144,118,94,75,52,24"
"qoi, 108, 167, 109, 99, 78, 39, 20, 17, 5, 73, 144, 149, 168, 134"
"here are the top 20 items, as of the end of page 8 of the thread.votes weighted equally up to 20 items per voter.total number of voters = 213item count score popular issue name---- ----- ----- ------- ----------- 34 115 114.90 53.99% commit to excellence (csm) 39 87 86.86 40.85% corporation bookmarks (csm) 14 76 75.86 35.68% allign to bookmarks (csm) 40 71 71.00 33.33% corporation and alliance tool overhaul (csm) 19 67 66.69 31.46% assault frigates 4th bonus (csm) 108 61 60.90 28.64% overhaul of roles and grantable roles system (csm) 33 60 59.86 28.17% commit to fixing the ui (csm) 38 56 56.00 26.29% corp hangar audit logs (csm) 69 54 54.00 25.35% fix rockets (csm) 138 54 53.90 25.35% show damaged drones in drone bay (csm) 107 48 47.95 22.54% outpost dock radii (csm) 136 47 46.65 22.07% show implants on pod killmails (csm) 99 44 44.00 20.66% mining crystals change color of mining laser beam (csm) 164 44 43.95 20.66% view ship fittings in hanger without boarding ship (csm) 100 44 43.90 20.66% modular starbase (csm) 105 44 43.86 20.66% neuts/nos on overview (csm) 97 44 43.74 20.66% make guns continue firing at previous target after reload (csm) 23 42 42.00 19.72% black ops improvements part 2 (csm) 7 42 42.00 19.72% add meta column in item detail list view (csm) 167 40 40.00 18.78% whatever happened to the industry expansion (csm)i understand your concerns, cearain, and will keep them in mind the next time we do a poll like this. as i said before, there is a balancing act between precision and ease-of-use.keep in mind that all these issues have been through the csm process. the competing concerns were addressed at that time. however, this does raise an interesting point -- should players be able to \"recall\" a csm proposal, and what process should be used to do that?i am not concealing anything. while i think it's important that all the csm issues be in this poll, some of them are not directly relevant to the current csm task, which is trying to get dev time in the next expansion.with respect, i do not agree. assuming a new poll could be created that more accurately gauges player sentiment, implementing it would be an imposition the over 200 players who have already been most generous with their time. and keep in mind, we have to start making our decisions this weekend -- there simply isn't enough time to reset and gather \"better\" data.i do very much appreciate your concern on this issue. perhaps you would like to start a thread and try to come up with a better system that maintains ease of use?"
"trebor daehdoow,firstly thank you.secondly, when to you provide this list officially in the name of the csm to ccp ?we don't it's their forum but we also know they don't read it.yeay"
"miramell , 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108, 34"
"kira kubajaschi , 34, 38, 39, 40, 99, 107, 108"
"sturmlumlane pick : 7,16,19,23,48,63,114,125,115,116,120,110"
"di mulle,1,8,19,34,69,108,137,153,167,100"
"doctor rothschilde,6,7,8,14,19,24,33,47,69,105,113,115,116,117,136,138,164"
"bomberlocks,1,3,14,8,9,18,19,23,30,33,45,46,79,102,105,109,119,164,138"
"sedilis, 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 14, 19, 21, 23, 34, 66, 149, 152, 156, 162"
"rootimus maximus, 1, 5, 10, 14, 15, 33, 34, 38, 39, 47, 52, 63, 69, 70, 105, 109, 113, 136, 167, 127"
"leiture,3,6,19,23,30,34,45,55,56,69,98,99,109,120,126,139,145,147,151,167"
"ths csm meeting organisation :csm meeting organisation"
"caldreis,2,3,5,8,14,16,31,34,43,46,49,59,103,106,122,123,126,133,151,167"
"jack nuddels,8,15,53,80,97,113,166,167"
"urgg boolean,33,96,97,113,138,14,167"
"mortaock picks: 14,15,16,23,34,35,39,40,48,49,66,67,86,77,97,109,110,113,127,132,152."
"misscreant picks: 14,15,16,23,34,35,39,40,48,49,66,67,86,77,97,109,110,113,127,132,152."
"teborthank you for the responses. i appreciate your consideration of the points i made. it should be obvious now that the original plan of getting votes in assembly hall and having csm vote was, on its own, next to worthless. this extra step of having players tell ccp and csm what is *really* important to them might be the necessary extra step. its for that reason that i think this step should be set up in the best way possible.my proposal for the next time we do this would be to simply give everyone 20 points total. they can assign them as they like to the issues they want. i'm pretty sure you will see far less than 20 issues on average from each voter. they would also be able to designate some or all of those 20 points as negatives. i would just throw that out there. as to your question of whether we should be able to vote negatives, i think the answer is yes for several reasons including but not limited to:1) the game has changed. a proposal that may have been supported in the past may not be as important and indeed some may say is now harmful. for example, take the proposals to improve destroyers. it was posted in assembly hall in june of 2009. at least a few players have recognized the apoc 1.5 rig changes august of 2009) were a indirect boost to destroyers. they were also an indirect a nerf to bses and a buff to ships that were top in their rig class. this was a buff to bcs at least relative to cruisers. it was also pretty clearly an indirect boost to destroyers relative to t1 frigates and t2 firgates. how is that so? rigs give a percent increase so to the extent that you start out with a larger number you get more from each rig for the same price. hence this change boosted destroyers relative to t1 hulls. since tech 2 frigates only have 2 rig slots the rig changes were a buff to destroyers compared to them as well. that may account for some of the responses that destroyers dont need a boost in the *recent* boost destroyers thread in assembly hall. im not saying people thought it through this way. but they may have realized there are a ton of thrashers  hence they must be good for something. moreover there are a fair number of other destroyers  at least in low sec.so even if the actual proposal wasnt implemented the game has changed such that someone who may have voted for a destroyer boost in june of 2009 would not vote for one now *and may even be against one* now.2) the original threads are sometimes not linked. so you cant use them to see if there was substantial disagreement. 3) moreover, often if the thread is proposed by a csm it will get fast agreement from players (for various reasons that i wont go into) and then quickly get voted in at the next csm. often some of the negative implications of the idea are never even discussed at that time, but they may turn up later. making people realize its a bad idea. this method completely ignores that this happens. 4) the previous methods were never intended to guage how much do players want (or not want) something before. it wasnt part of the equation. it either got sufficient thumbs ups from players (whatever that may have meant) and then csm or it didnt. if we now want to start gauging the importance players put on an issue its not rational to completely ignore the fact that many players may hate certain ideas. indeed by only counting the yays you may have things on your top 20 list that the majority of players do *not* want and feel *very strongly* that it will make eve worse. if you never consider the nays your system may have this happen quite often. thus your system will not represent the players view but instead misrepresent them. i do think that csm must start giving ccp some more information about what players really want. so i support your general idea here. im just not sure whether the way you did it here will be more of a representation or a misrepresentation of what players want. i just dont think there is anyway to tell. that said i do i understand your practical concerns so understand your position on this time around. i would ask that you consider these points in weighing the results and in deciding how you will ask for input from players in the future."
"antihrist pripravnik,19,8,14,32,48,79,87,97,100,105,107,109,110,113,132,151,152,7,34,40"
"billserkoff2 5,7,32,45,59,69,76,84,105,102,100,99,97,96,110,109,113,127,132,133,135,136,138,139,165"
"fix hybrids - it isn't mentioned anywhere on there."
"no vote manipulation on my site :s, just straight up data. check the source :p"
"turelus,3,5,15,34,100,105,134,149,165,19,40,43,67,69,80,96,109,110,167,13"
"freyyaa,pick#34,pick#38,pick#100,pick#154"
"shatteredstone,8,6,17,14,22,31,32,33,37,39,46,54,56,75,77,84,94,96,97,98,101,105,106,112,116,122,123,124,126,127,131,133,134,136,138,144,149,151,152,167"
"borishotch, 51, 101, 108, 110, 113, 127, 133, 135, 138, 139, 164, 167"
"firartix,6,8,14,25,51,75,81,82,96,97,102,121,127,130,137,138,136,166,131,106,77,52,9,15,17"
"lancien,pick#34,pick#100,pick#154zar'al,pick#34,pick#100,pick#154"
"helothane,11,14,25,39,50,69,84,87,97,113,135,138,139,152,164,166"
"hyperion75 19, 34, 45, 51, 69, 79, 96, 97, 136, 142, 153, 164, 165"
"hydraxian,34,14,16,25,19,32,47,65,79,97,87,134,153,136,154"
"kinborough, 119,5,69,134,142,143,153,154,15,19,34,165,96,97,95,87,86"
"you have pretty much described how the process is supposed to work. we're going to do the categorization and prioritization using player input as a guide, and we hope ccp will give us the needed feedback and iterate the most-wanted ideas so we can get them implemented in the next expansion.mynxee and i in particular intend to keep everyone updated on how the process is proceeding. this is the first time csm has been a stakeholder and thus had any input into release planning.we will be providing our lists to john (ccp diagoras) and p<U+FFFD>tur (ccp xhagen) this weekend. john will be representing the csm in the actual meetings.cearain, thanks for your input -- check your evemail (grin)."
"william cooly, pick 5, pick 10, pick 14, pick 16, pick 21, pick 23, pick 34, pick 35, pick 43, pick 49, pick 59, pick 66, pick 86, pick 87, pick 97, pick 109, pick 127, pick 133, pick 136, pick 139, pick 168."
"porlisa,33,34,35,39,45,50,78,97,114,115,142,149,160,138,136,105,69,8,1,9"
"ibn taymiyyah,pick#8,pick#10,pick#14,pick#15,pick#21,pick#23,pick#33,pick#34,pick#39,pick#45,pick#48,pick#49,pick#56,pick#69,pick#113,pick#139,pick#151,pick#167,pick#133,pick#111"
"ronin nazuri: 07,09,19,23,33,34,39,50,52,103,112,113,122,126,138,139,149,151,152,166#07 add meta column in item detail list view (csm)#09 add scan angle buttons to scanner window (csm)#19 assault frigates 4th bonus (csm) #23 black ops improvements part 2 (csm) #33 commit to fixing the ui (csm)#34 commit to excellence (csm)#39 corporation bookmarks (csm)#50 drone stance interface (csm)#52 dynamic missions part 2 (csm)#103 move recover probes away from analyze button#112 prevent cloaked ships in same gang/fleet from decloaking each other#113 reconnect to lost drones (csm) #122 save and reuse scan probe patterns (csm)#126 scanning colors (csm)#138 show damaged drones in drone bay (csm) #139 skill injection (csm) #149 store bookmark folders server-side. (csm) #151 suicide ganking part 3 (csm)#152 t3 refitting inside wspace (csm)#166 watch list and broadcasts (csm)just in case there is some confusion: my support on #33 does not mean i endorse #31 \"client addons [aka user created mods] (csm)\". in fact i say not only no, but hell no. this isn't wow kiddies, the ui needs work but not user-created mods. edit: listed in requested format."
"wraithik, 4, 13, 16, 14, 30, 33, 34, 39, 48, 54, 61, 62, 63, 72, 115"
"gabriel rosentcrantz 8, 14, 23, 41, 2, 17, 26, 28, 32, 34, 39, 43, 54, 81, 97, 98, 100, 108, 119, 131"
"james arget,5,8,9,10,14,15,23,32,33,34,39,43,47,49,51,69,78,79,84,92,90,97,99,100,102,122,126,131,152,153,161"
"t'amber told me she'd kill me if i didn't say it :(/me is sad now..."
"(linkage)so now i can't make a link to my bounty hunting idea, when someone suggests a bounty hunting idea in another thread two hours before?...yeah clearly me being a suicide gank victim is at work again! (that was sarcasm, just in case your confused again). suggesting i bumped this thread for any other reason is not based on anything other than wishful thinking on your part.you seem to be persisting under the constant delusion that anyone suggesting anything that might affect suicide ganking is a victim....not true. in my case i just want to see a slightly less broken bounty system. your argument is this. 1) i have a mining/carebear alt that i wish to protect from high-sec ganking.2) i have a low sec pirate that want's more victims.3) suggesting a change to the bounty system solves both problems at once, cleverly disguised as a boost to the bounty system.ok so lets examine this1) i don't, but even if i do it is irrelevant to the topic in hand.2) i do, but to be honest have no real difficulty in finding targets since our 16 man corp is at war with an alliance of 1500+ players. in either case it is irrelevant to the topic at hand again.3) since i have no argument with suiciding, but i do want to see a bounty system working properly i can only say incorrect. oh, and that is also irrelevant to the topic at hand.i say again, my own or my corps activity's have no bearing at all on this idea, i know you love bringing it up to support your non-argument but you really need to get that into your head.try forming an argument that is not centred around what colour galvatine's front room is this week, or what galvatine's had for his dinner this evening and you might get somewhere. resorting to saying this is a bad idea because i have a grievance is fail, and you know it. i could very well throw this back the other way and say the only reason you dislike the idea is because all you ever do is suicide gank (and anyone who does search on you can back that one up).here is your challenge, write an objection to the idea without bringing my or my corps play style into it and if i cannot counter it i will delete the thread.simples"
"thread cleaned of trolling and off-topic posts. please remain on topic and post in a constructive matter."
"/cheerfor those that already noticed, yes this is a rework of the swg bounty hunting system.thinking about that, the target jedi had a lot to lose by getting killed (perma death and with later patches, loss of experience). without such a penalty, preventing exploitation of the bounty by the target or the hunter is impossible.i'm not for one second suggesting these need to be introduced, but saying that what we have to aim for is a compromise where we make it as hard as possible to exploit, without gimping other game mechanics in the process."
"good stuff."
"signed. this region needs serious repair. please hear us ccp!!"
"supported."
"supported on all points. alts and char trading already allow ppl with bad rep to hide, so i feel that bad names should be changeable. the player gets what they want and ccp gets more cash. just make it expensive to prevent abuse if needs be."
"i made a new topic with a similar proposal but failed to search for duplicate topics. in any case, reposting here to add some suggestions for how it might work. either way, i support the suggestion. original post:from this thread, it appears there's a fair amount of interest in being able to change a character's name. there are also valid concerns about the exploitability of name changes, particularly in a highly social game where trust comes at a premium. here are some suggestions for permitting name changes while preventing abuse.permit a player to modify a character's name, but...1. limit the number of times each character can change their name, perhaps to once a year or once a lifetime; and2. charge the player for the service, either with an account payment similar to portrait swaps, an isk cost commensurate with the character's age/skill, or through the use of a plex.when a character changes their name...1. the name change appears in their employment history;2. anyone who has that character in their address book is sent notification;3. any searches of the old name still turn up the character; and4. forum posts show the previous name in parenthesis below the current name.i think with these measures in place (and with the usual moderation of 'bad' names), ccp can safely implement a change name feature."
"i'm against this... though a possible compromise would involve characters being able to change their name, but the original name still showing. what?!? yeah, i know, sounds counter intuitive. in some mmo's you can turn on/off levels of info. if their old name was displayed say parenthetically beside their new name and said old name could never be removed, then i'd be okay with this. hiding the old name and therefore the history associated with that name behind windows and info buttons makes this a big no for me. make their old name as transparent as their new name, however, and i could tentatively agree."
"this is actually false. our corp was robbed about a year ago. we ended up in the same alliance as the thief later on. because we recognized his name in a fleet, we were able to pass on what had happened. if his name had been different, we might have not noticed. it isn't like people are constantly keeping tabs on thieves.i would support name changes only if you could flag characters on a personal/corp/alliance level with different tags: scammer, thief, loot thief, etc. if you could tag people, you would be able to quickly identify a character, even if they had a name change.as to the idea that putting an \"aka [insert old name]\" after the new name, you need only look back to solodrakbansolodrakbanso name to see how someone could create such a long string that their old name might not be noticed."
"fairly self explanatory. cruiser rats in 0.5 and 0.6, with appropriate bounties, loot, etc. just to add a little more flavor/difficulty to high sec rats."
"i just want to know who share the following line.i want eve as a spaceship game and i will nor play dust 514 nor accept any interaction with dust 514 players on my eve game time."
"you're not missing much."
"i disagree, in my view it could greatly enrich the game. but its hard to say, considering the low amount on informations."
"i will likely play both."
"newsflash: they never asked you to!"
"then quit the game because your not going to have much choice.can i has your stuff?"
"this, really. it's hard to be enthusiastic in a vacuum."
"half the reason i signed on to play eve was because of dust-514. dust-514 will bring more players to eve and eve players won't be forced to interact with dust players. so... win-win? i think so."
"it's console only. how do you play a fps without mouse? frustrating just thinking about it."
"i was going to troll you but... i actually agree with you .although i've seen some kids playing halo and let me tell ya, they use those controls with surgical precision. i guess i'm just getting old."
"dust514 is a very interesting idea and i applaud anything video game companies do to try to create new genres or new exciting ways to playing existing genres instead of remaking the same game over and over again.ccp has already stated that dust514 can be completely separate from eve if needed so i don't see why you are so bitter."
"i'm all thumbs. i know what you mean though. i used to hate consoles, but increasingly, all the non-mmo games were coming out on consoles and i eventually caved in. it isn't the best way to do an fps, but i have accommodated. it isn't quite as fluid as i'm used to on a computer, but it helps tremendously."
"in space...no one can hear you qq....just sayin'"
"qq moar"
"now i know what the prob was with them in high sec b4, but its a simple solution if the wanna suicide or whatever uber concord just kills them. becase trying to kill lrg ecm to the hilt pos's is a pain, so why not let caps back in. make ppl wanna actually buy and fly them more. so can this be brought to ccp's attention ?"
"dreads are so needed in high sec"
"almost impossible, to destroy alarge pos in high sec, when there a ****load ecm's jammers. its a real disadvantage for even a big alliance or big corp to even attack this kind of setup, so war targets stay in bubble and wait enemy ships to pop waiting there doing nothing. so how the **** you can destroy this kind of setup, bringing 100 bs fleet in high sec, sounds ridiculous."
"chribba, is that you?"
"npc corp alts in remote rep logistic are bad enough, now you want npc corp alts in triage carriers?"
"hope i was, but i would guess he would like that too!"
"the last thing high sec needs is cap fights in jita, or mass afk l4 grinding in carriers/moros."
"if they allowed caps in high sec for movement purposes only i'd be ok with it. anything combat related, no. mining is ok.get a nyx and go mine a belt."
"the machariel is slower than a self-respecting ab frig, whereas a vindicator does far better dps than any other subcapital. by your logic, does this mean that the vindicator is better than a machariel, because its bonuses fit in well with its ship class?"
"mach's speed does not make all other bs obsolete. dramiel's speed along with lack of weakness makes it flat out better than any other frig in such a way that they have no reason to exist."
"so now its the speed? yes, speed is one key value for frigates. the dramiel is an angel (minmatar/gallente)pirate faction frigate with a very high price tag. its must be the best ship in this field, following this definition.lets see how the mwd speed situation is (with like 3 overdrives), no overheat:t1 frig like rifter: around 3500 mst2 interceptor claw: around 5500 mspirate frig dramiel: around 7500 msvalues might differ a bit, but not much. thats how its is: from every shipclass to the next best is a difference of about 2000ms. for me it looks logical. for the expense of 80-90 million, you have to be faster than a trashy 10 million intie. of course you might state that other frigs are pointless then, but this is not the case. following that logic would also mean that all bs beside pirate bs are unneccesary since those pirate faction bs perfom better than standard bs. but obviously thats not the case..... since not everyone can expense the isk regularly...same for dramiels. its a superior toy for alot of money. it will never replace interceptors. also dramiel isnt really better in all fields than a ceptor: interceptors have a better tackling range (shipbonus)and alot more warpspeed. so if you want to \"intercept\" a hostile gang, intie is still better .)and now stop whining. just pay the price and buy a pirate frig. nerfing this ships would make them pointless. remember how silly faction frigs where in the past...there was no market since they were just not good enough for their price. now ccp buffed them to fit in their sceme again and everybody wants to nerf it^^ this makes no sense."
"not supported. dramiel is fine"
"not supported.dramiel is a extremly expensive angel ship. since its mainly minmatar and secondary gallente: it should focus speed and damage. for this crazy price and the amount of skills you need it must be faster than an average ceptor worth 1/9th of a dram. everything else makes no sense."
"no wardecs in empire space 0.7 and above . this is purely griefing . this is only legit if the war is declared mutual.im a 4 year old player and its annoying .let the pirates flame at this time"
"-999999/10 troll"
"pve games ------------------------------------------>in eve, you consent to pvp the moment you login."
"enough said."
"care to reference that? that isn't even the point. there are seventy devs working on something that isn't going to add to the core gameplay of eve. it will be basically a minigame that took three years plus to make at the expense of what eve really is. there are a lot of ****ed off pilots that found out there are no incoming fixes for already implemented features for at least eighteen months. probably much closer to two years because what do you think is going to happen when incarna is released? think it's not going to require some tweaking?"
"i have yet to see anything that ccp does go through without a complaint. in fact, every year that incarna hasn't come out has been met with threads demanding incarna. now there are threads against incarna. don't try to speak for everyone."
"here's some cheese. not supported"
"not supportedi hereby motion to ban op for wasting time in this forum being a whiny c**nt"
"edit: sorry, duplicate post. didn't see the other thread below it. please lock."
"locked by request."
"thank you ccp for disconnecting me from the server without so much as an email to remind me my sub was about to expire. i know it's my own responsibility to make sure i'm paid up but a little something would be nice, especially since i just paid for a second account 2 weeks ago. this is why i lost track of my sub time.i get a mail every hour to remind me that my pos is about to run out of fuel, i'm just saying maybe one mail 48 hours before my account is gonna be cut off would be nice.now if you'll excuse me i have to go check paypal to see if i have enough to pay for another month, cuz if i don't it'll be a 5 day wait for a bank transfer."
"so you missed the note on the character selection screen that tells you that your account is about to expire?"
"depending on your payment method, you don't get a message. i know you do for plex and don't for paypal. i don't know about any other methods."
"yep its pretty dumb that they don't give you as much notice as they could to resub.maybe they could do it after you finish a particularly hard mission or flip some items in a station, or win a 1v2 - you know, \"hey eve is awesome, we know it, you know it, howabout throwing some bucks at ol ccp so you can play another month?\""
"stand down! widot thread not allowed xd"
"hello rokkit kween, i know we will have to agree to disagree here, but you have written a very clear statement about everything in eve being pvp. so i think it is useful to tease out some of the implications of what you appear to be saying as a way to identify some of the beliefs of pvp fundamentalism. if you are not a fundamentalist, i apologize and look forward to your clarification. you begin by using pvp as a metaphor. while pvp usually refers to pvp combat, as opposed to pve combat, you have adopted an expanded meaning that uses pvp to metaphorically describe all game mechanics and social interaction in eve. pvp as a metaphor can be useful. kresian, for instance, uses it to good effect as a way to discuss the interdependent ecology of eve's combat, industrial and other features, as well as to emphasize the indispensable role of pvp combat and interpersonal competition. while she and i view eve from different perspectives, i agree with her on these points. yet your use of this metaphor also conflates the meanings of pvp-combat, competition and conflict, as well as understates the importance of cooperation and amity in eve. i can't think of any good reason to do this. it dumbs down our language for talking about eve, and thereby creates a less accurate understanding of the complexity and evolution of the eve universe. next you imply that making reasonable distinctions is playing games with words. well, words are used to make distinctions, and such distinctions are necessary if we are going to accurately describe eve. i haven't read anyone claiming that eve is not about pvp combat, competition or conflict. what i have read, and what i believe myself, is that eve is better understood as a sandbox that incorporates but is not reducible to those features. honestly, i am not trying to play games here. i'm expressing a different view of what eve is now, and what it should become in the future. you move on to intimate that those of us who see eve as a sandbox with pvp -- a cosmos -- don't want to play eve, and would destroy it from within. that simply is not the case. many of us enjoy playing eve, whether we agree with your overuse of the pvp metaphor or not. some of us, such as myself, find pvp to be our favourite activity. and since eve is already a cosmos, your worry about destroying the game from within is overblown. we can develop further elements of this cosmos without sacrificing its pvp combat dimension. finally, you note that if we do not agree with your view of the game, we should leave eve. please do not make the mistake of assuming that only one view of the game has insight. i've acknowledged the insight that the pvp metaphor can bring to the table, even while pointing out its shortcomings. we'd have a better conversation on this topic if we were all committed to finding the insight in each other's points of view. delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"this is why the word \"sophomoric\" means \"like a wise fool\".nothing was a 'metaphor', it was a statement of fact. industry is pvp, if you don't believe it, try to truck down a freighter full of building materials and jump it gate to gate in a hostile region. try to build capital ships in a region where the governing powers don't consent to your pos being there. and trade is pvp as well. try to take the materials you've produced to jita and see how long you stay at the lowest price without being .01'd. try manipulating the market and see if someone doesn't crash your profit margin. take hundreds of millions in losses after you buy up a product and find someone shattering their own profit margin in order to substantially undercut you. the babble about \"cooperation\" and \"amity\" in eve are somehow different from pvp is just more ignorant nonsense. people working together (to oppose other people working together) hardly invalidates the fact that cooperation is one way to engage in pvp, not somehow different from pvp. if a group of people in team fortress ii work to take the enemy's intelligence briefcase, it doesn't mean that tf ii is no longer a pvp game. and yes, those of you who join a pvp game and then whine, incessantly, as to why it shouldn't be a pvp game really should go somewhere else. we'd laugh at someone who joined tf ii and then complained endlessly about how there was so much shooting going on. same deal with eve. judging by your massive 9 kills (and 31 losses) on battleclinic you've joined the greatest pvp mmo ever made in order to write sophomore-level word salad about how eve should be a \"cosmos\" instead of what it is and what it was designed, specifically and explicitly, to be. there are any number of \"comoses\" out there in which you'd be much happier and wouldn't have to advocate for any type of changes. start with second life, it seems to be more your speed."
"who is the prc by the way?"
"so in short you cannot provide a single specific example to back up your accusation that the csm promote their own petty wants? you could have just typed \"no\" instead of 300 words of flim-flam and fallacy."
"two items from me this time:modify or remove learning skillsuser interface - big wins, fan favorites and low hanging fruit"
"may i please ask csm members who will present the most wanted backlog issues ?"
"those are all passed csm issues. we will prioritize them this weekend as part of the ccp release planning process. hopefully some of them will be allocated dev time."
"there is a thing to consider: when you make a gift of something, that thing becomes worthless.any attempt to boost lowsec must take this into account. in my vision of lowsec, it is the heaven of smugglers and pirates. there should be no highsec highways between empires, but more highse isles in a lowsec sea. this would make interregional trading more difficult and thus more rewarding for those who are fit enough. this could require having some lowsec areas cynojammed as empire, otherwise the use of jumpfreighters would make the task too easy for those who can afford those ships. on the other side, pirates would have more opportunities to catch some fly. of course, this would not make lowsec much more populated, it will just give a good reward to those who can get it, while it will not give any reason to farm and harvest this space.i think that an idea could solve the problem, i'll post it in features and ideas discussion.edit: here is a proposal that will also make missions more dynamical."
"csm memberspersonally i feel it's now your time !you asked us about our needs in the backlog priority.we are voting 2000+ and you have a meeting.i really hope that you all will consider our voice, no matter what you personally thinks about each others or about the good/bad of what we asked for.waiting heavily on your meeting issue list an on the minutes of the next csm meeting to know about csm position in the customer to ccp relationship.thank you,yeay"
"it's not a matter of how often you do forums, it's a matter of how hard you do them."
"stop apologizing you big girl!of course we knew exactly what was intended, it was just too easy, fun and needed, to let an opportunity like that, to do a in-your-face of much of the csm (present and past), simply slide by in faked apathy.but if you really want to take a lesson home from this, instead of just taking it as us wanting to give the csms some painful kicks, don't use a word like tool about (a group of) people. instrument is not much better.quite apart from all the alternative meanings of tool, there are the associations to things like physical tools and instruments. lifeless objects which you have complete power over and have no will of their own, nor any influence on the actions you force them to carry out. to be used and put back on the shelf as needed.not exactly flattering for something that is some kind of three-way crossbreed between a focus group, a political lobby organization and a showpony.you will have to forgive if it sounds harsh, but that is just because i care. i'm not going to condemn the whole of the csm, because some have been smart enough to shut up so there is nothing to judge, but some have been a travesty, others naive and novices really putting their boots in their mouthes even if they don't all realize it. for the most blind, \"tool\" (get it now?) would be appropriate, perhaps bordering on compliment.not that the dev participation is all that innocent from the hear-say."
"/flog"
"supported!"
"bumpercars"
"posting in an epic thread. keep up the work."
"please do something to fix this aging issue, ccp. please!"
"blaster range needs to be improved to around 20-30kmwith speed being the norm, getting in range and staying in range is a major issue, and more leeway is needed."
"ur dumb, pulse range with blaster dps is stupid. moar dmg, not rng bro"
"apparently the drake and hulk are now amarr ships.also che was a racist terrorist, ghandi was a racist sex fiend and mother teresa was a sadistic extremist who denied the ill comfort and treatment whilst hiding the financial details of her charity, but please spout more crap."
"i absolutely endorse this proposal."
"not really supporting the specific idea, but something must be done... i agree that the stats on rails themselves appear to be ok, but the ships that use them are lacking, especially the caldari ones. so either fix the ships or the weapons...edit: whoah since i didn't read the whole 27 frakking pages i lost all that sexy math thrown around :p nothing to add there, liang basically got it right (at least as long as that formula is accurate). though the accuracy niche red speaks about is an interesting concept... but really, given how eve works that niche is basically filled by lower classes of weapons (and due to the range on caldari ships and on t2 beam ammo, the range isn't that much of an issue anymore. in fact basically there's no need to use anything else beside lasers right now, 'cept maybe when you need very high alpha while having few ships... like, anti bomber duty)."
"damage on the rails needs to be improved, especially for mediums and smalls."
"while i must agree the whole principle of learning skills to learn skills faster might seem redundant . it is a certain way to specialize as well. not everyone values certain attributes the same way and might thus invest more skill points in certain attribute learning skills (my charisma learning are still quite low for example) . and it also adds a variation in skill priorities for people with short-run perspectives and long run perspectives. now a little idea i have thought of is maybe to make learning skills \"special\" skills . instead of being forced to train them the normal way why not give a possible alternative . like maybe mini-instant-learn skill books that would add skill points to a certain learning skill. could be something purchasable through the lp store or rewarded from specific missions. so instead of using your training time to train the learning skills instead of \"useful\" skills you could be training those learning skills the other way while using the training queue for more valuable skills. now i admit this is may not be the best well-thought idea and there might be some issues i have overlooked ."
"not supported."
"learning skills are a waste of time, and it is probably the single biggest contributor to new players not sticking around long enough to learn the game. as soon as you tell them how much time they have to train in learning skills that don't allow them to get into ships faster, they become disinterested. remove the skills, add in equivalent attributes, and credit with faster training time."
"qazbah,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"trapperz,11,14,16,33,34,35,39,40,49,83,87,105,108,114,132,134,136,138,142,149"
"lord wulfengheist,16,22,26,39,48,56,69,83,82,97,96,102,112,115,122,123,132,134,136,152"
"1.14.19.22.23.25.33.35.51.127.129.12.52.76.153"
"skeldi,1,5,7,9,10,14,39,47,53,78,82,84,97,112,127,131,134,136,149,152"
"crazy-ksk,pick#1,pick#5,pick#12,pick#15,pick#16,pick#23,pick#24,pick#33,pick#34,pick#46,pick#45,pick#48,pick#52,pick#51,pick#59,pick#111,pick#114,pick#119,pick#120,pick#132,pick#152"
"<nicolas vauban>,10,11,22,34,88,100,111,113,122,127,130,133,135,160,161,167,168"
"eljinn,pick#34,pick#100,pick#154"
"jake sull'y,pick#34,pick#100,pick#154"
"dr xaivior,pick#11,pick#14,pick#23,pick#33,pick#39,pick#45,pick#50,pick#55,pick#87,pick#112,pick#115,pick#116,pick#124,pick#139,pick#168"
"ltcmd hunter,16,38,39,40,75,99,107,108,122,131,133,149"
"jforce,8,9,14,15,21,24,27,34,39,49,53,55,78,79,87,97,111,122,160,167"
"mimystic2,14,34,39,87,138,165"
"ashemi darkhold,3,23,33,34,40,45,55,66,86,87,97,111,114,142,146,154,160,167,37,115"
"nalme ark,8,16,23,48,27,32,39,51,54,55,79,116,126,137,149,165,166"
"sepheir,22,49,69,93,100,142,143,149,125,7,30,33,32,34,54,90,107,112,114,115"
"cloning service,5,8,7,10,14,15,16,19,32,33,39,45,47,72,80,90,97,96,100,104,105,107,109,112,116,136,148,149,165"
"morwennon,9,10,14,15,19,21,34,33,47,48,79,94,102,120,122,164,167,105,98"
"skaffe,5,14,34,33,39,40,45,47,69,79,87,100,126,147,161,168,1,7,19,46"
"13,14, 17, 23, 25, 27, 39, 48, 56, 66, 75, 87, 112, 133, 148, 153, 166, 168"
"mega kill,1,4,5,6,8,10,12,13,14,15,16,17,20,22,33,35,43,47,66,75,84,87,99,97,98,108,113,116,122,127,134,139,164,165,166,167,153"
"siphaanu,16,19,23,24,27,33,34,43,120,53,67,69,79,87,92,100,108,109,112,153"
"twizted sizter,23,38,48,49,56,75,79,97,98,100,101,109,112,122,128,129,136,139,144,148"
"gohlem 38 39 40 99 107"
"phantom slave 33, 34, 16, 22, 14, 167, 111, 97, 79, 51, 45, 120"
"gai luron,3,5,7,10,39,90,102,112,113,129,133,136,149,152,151,166,167,13,15,17"
"kragaar, 3, 17, 34, 37, 45, 54, 69, 96, 115, 124, 134, 135, 136"
"30thelement,112,8,23,79,72,97,122,136,161,165,"
"ataraxium malicus,#160,#136,#135,#132,#125,#109,#97,#84,#69,#67,#66,#59,#48,#25,#23,#19,#5,#120,#115,#107."
"mikatuya, 34, 167, 87, 144, 14, 7, 97, 50, 36, 66, 69"
"generals4: 45, 51, 97, 133, 167"
"rhok relztem,7,8,10,14,15,19,23,31,33,34,43,45,51,52,56,69,133,134,137,139,14121 picks but i just couldn't get it any lower."
"jelmer,39,40,38,99,107,108"
"leneerra, 2, 8, 69, 152, 161, 167, 164( includes 134), 115, 119, 168, 97, 95, 53, 48(includes 12), 34, 3(includes 30), 66, 64, 61, 58"
"thetrel,23,49,50,75,100,112"
"kuuijn,7,19,23,24,33,34,51,52,69,79,92,105,113,135,147,152,168,96,63,132"
"shuckstar,1,3,7,10,14,17,19,23,38,39,40,47,69,76,75,80,102,110,164,147"
"krecian,12,14,16,23,27,30,34,41,43,49,80,92,97,99,102,103,104,105,106,107,110,109,115,120,124,132,135,151,154,156,157,164,165hard to really narrow it down ><"
"thoth rothschild,166,92,81,79,69,53,50,47,34,33,24,23,12"
"niyrah - 4, 14, 30, 33, 16, 13, 72, 61, 62, 63, 54, 115, 39"
"katharina dematier,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"keltat,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"frejarea semtag,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"magicmorphone,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"joy productiva,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"jelena productiva,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"not supported, keep scams on contracts where they belong.edit: just realised you guys are talking about the forums not the game x.xi am support"
"your \"facts\" r someone's suggestion and the link from that thread to yours...nevertheless, u still have not explained how to make your proposal work in low sec. all u've done is address it only once with an impractical action brought on by wishful thinking and ever since, u've been avoiding it altogther. when macro exhumers r still infesting high sec and mineral prices r absolute ****, how would the current situation warrant a nerf to suicide ganking? it doesn't so the only reason ppl want it that way is because they want to be 100% safe. and of course, that's why u used the \"slightly\" in \"slightly less broken\" because u'll still be safe for obvious reasons. 1. it is completely relevant either way because suicide ganking affects them. just because u fail to see how the mechanics of eve affect each other, doesn't mean it doesn't happen.2. it coincides with your proposal so it is relevant, just like any other thread that attempts to nerf others and buff oneself.3. only it's not gonna work properly in low sec and u know it. after all, what u say isn't necessarily the same as what u do. that's why u've avoided that part of the argument almost completely and continuously \"question the relevance\" of any other argument that u cannot counter. refer to #3 'cause u really need to get that through your head...refer to #3 and i do actually kill in low sec and 0.0 if u actually did do a search or even easier, actually listened to your corp founder. so u can't \"throw it back\" 'cause u're wrong there as well."
"simple indeed...so for the millionth time...make your proposal actually work against the low sec blobs with a practical strategy for the bounty hunters. anyone in their right mind would know that sending a random player to a blob with a miniscule isk \"incentive\" is not gonna work. notice i didn't mention u or your corp this time--just the low sec blobs in general, despite the similarities...so r u gonna actually answer it for once with something practical or r u just gonna deem the same irrefutable argument \"irrelevant\" again and continue bumping your thread, hoping it will somehow pass by the quantity of posts alone? but we all already know the answer to that... p.s. in case u didn't notice, your posts also were deleted for trolling as a little taste of your own medicine--just a reminder that ccp is only doing their job, which does not involve silencing the opposition for u."
"deleted for double posting."
"supported"
"sifting through the normal tripe, we finally have a point.ok lets try and answer this one with a couple of points/questions and some suggestions.1) it would be impractical, and unfair to provide any kind of \"boost\" to the hunter when hunting in low sec.2) recognising that low/null sec hunting is actually more difficult/risky.so while we can't fairly change the game mechanics to make hunting low sec targets easier, we should recognise that they are more difficult and reward accordingly.how about applying a modifier to the reward based on the sec rating of the system where the kill is? with a negative modifier for high sec and a positive for low sec..."
"now u're the one trolling. 1. once again: and exactly how fair and practical is it when he has to face everyone else just to get to his target and survive all for a ****ty reward?2. u noticed, huh? then u should also know that no amount of added rewards would ever encourage a bounty hunter to commit suicide, especially since none of the rewards apply unless it's actually completed.try to actually give it an ounce of thought for once--if normal players won't be farmed for free, what makes u think a bounty hunter would waste all his time getting farmed for chump change? r u picking up on your total lack of logic on this or r u just complacent with a so-called \"slightly\" less broken system to waste ccp's time with?"
"so basically your saying that killing any one given pirate/outlaw/wanted/bountied target, in lowsec is always impossible as a single player?sorry, i don't think that is the case. patience and cunning may be or will be required, but to say it is impossible is simply incorrect. remember me saying that the idea came from the swg system? ask any bounty hunter that tried it, your target was nearly always a lot stronger than you, and extreme planning/cunning was required to hit your mark. also bear in mind that the mark had a lot to lose by getting pwned, so was always paranoid and on the defensive.people still enjoyed it, and granted it's not going to be everyone's cup of tea, then again the same could be said of many aspects of this game. even if you took away the agent idea and kept the tradable rights it would be a lot of fun for those that were willing to take on the risk."
"signed"
"signed!"
"signed!"
"since minmatar ships are only held together by duct tape anyway, i suggest a special rr mod for just this race. a duct tape launcher that will be used for rr instead of the normal rr modules, using duct tape rolls as ammo."
"suggestion heartily supported"
"1.0"
"bah, always ragging on the minmatar :(however, i support this."
"and janitors, someone needs to apply the duct tape :p"
"i fully support this idea."
"suported only if brand names of duct tape are used as variations on ammo (sellotape = long range but sod-all rep, masking tape = short range but high rep, etc.)"
"[i'm not sure if this has been proposed before, if it has i couldn't find it]reduce standard belt ores volumes by 80% - this still makes them viable for lowbies mining in frigate or their first mining barge. the volume removed from them should be moved into belts that must be scanned down. gravimetric site belts in every system. the belt must be depleted before respawn (aka all the ores, not just the higher value ones).essentially all the upgraded 0.0 system grav sites, except appropriate for highsec.these belts would have tougher rats than the normal ones.ice belts (in all systems) would all be scan down and move once every few hours (random 3-6 hours)exhumers and mining barges would have +20 cpu, +1 pg and +1 high slotthe orca and the rorqual should probably get that too."
"i like your first idea with a few tweaks better than this one. i would humbly ask you to modify it to include bs rats in low sec, cruisers in 0.5 - 0.8, and frigs in 0.9 - 1.0....also take the asteroids out of 0.9 - 10.0 and replace them with tiny tiny roids for the noob frig miners.macros would adapt in a scannable roid field world. but good train of thought here"
"it occurs to me that the people at ccp understand fun about as well as a penguin understands a pogo stick. or perhaps, they are sadistic imps trying to recreate a bf skinner experiment on space nerds. stop making me click for space cheese. make pi fun or make it painless."
"having to log only to reset each extractor on each char give me the impression i had when playing browser games.and i don't want this.give us a damn option to do this quicker... 2 weeks i stopped pi, and it does not miss me..."
"yes,there is nothing left to say."
"everything in eve is based on clicking.how many clicks does it take to mine for 3 hours, haul it to station, reprocess it and sell it on the market?damn near the same amount it takes to cycle your extractors every 3 days. htfu and stop *****ing about almost free, risk-less isk.not supported"
"support"
"no.there are far too many ways to escape penalties from your actions in game through the use of alts, trial accounts, bought/traded characters etc. the bare minimum for any name change would be it does nothing to your standings, combat logs, kill rights, etc and how they are setup with other players. if a player has another in their watch list, changing a name doesn't affect the watch list, standings, notes, etc and there is clearly some history or aka attached to them.but the point is you, everyone, should be held responsible for their own character, you made it/bought it so you have to live with it. i oppose character selling/transfers i understand why people do it and why they might want it but it along with the ease of recycling alts, making trials are all taken advantage of by those who know how to do it effectively. changing your name just adds another layer to this stack of 'escape' from consequences as not everyone or every system is going to track and keep the name changes up to date. the game already has few real consequences that can be imposed on a player by others, only if you can find them and 'catch' them can you extract any 'revenge/justice' but only in so much as you can take what they put at risk. one can easily turn a character into a station trader or turn on an alt if really hounded by other players which afaik rarely if ever happens. i realize in many instances a character isn't tracked and hunted or banished by their identity but i think there should be more ways to make players aware of who/what characters are about not less."
"anything you want to do that will completely sully your reputation you can do with a disposable alt. scams? disposable alt. suicide ganking? disposable alt. corp spy? disposable alt. with the disposable \"i win\" button, there is no reason not to allow very limited name changing. this doesn't remove corporation history, standings, security status, bounty or anything related to the character's true nature.no reason not to support this. i can walk down to the courthouse today and buy a name change."
"supported. this is a stealth macromining nerf.on a somewhat related note, the bounty value on npc's should be dictated somewhat by the danger posed by other players, not solely by the danger posed by the npc as now. in other words, the same rat in a highsec mission or belt should pay a lower bounty than the same rat in low or nullsec."
"supported, good idea. i agree with the point about macromining."
"i can't support it because while it would deter macrominers, it would hurt legit miners a lot more. it also would be a stealth lowsec nerf as cruiser spawns are really the only reason to bother with many 0.4 and 0.3 areas: while battleships spawn, its mostly cruisers and frigs. even with a lower bounty the safety in hisec areas would be a strong draw.the only place i would support it would be in ice fields."
"not to mention, the usual set of t2 medium drones that every exhumer has can easily kill the cruiser rats, so unless they're buffed up, it's not gonna work."
"absolutely supported."
"it's trivial to equip a hulk to be able to tank rats. now the t1 exhumers could need a slight buff"
"supported as i think there is a real need for this."
"great anti macro idea...at least the macro's will have to be fitted with t2 or faction gear to perma tank the rats, making them a nice gank target and not just for lols."
"as for macros, wouldn't they just move to 0.7 and up? might as well extend it up to 1.0"
"edit: i would say also put them into ice belts."
"i say put bs in low sec, cruisers in 0.5 - 0.8, and frigs in 0.9 - 1.0....also take the asteroids out of 0.9 - 10.0 and replace them with tiny tiny roids for the noob frig miners."
"i would all so like to point out that cal ships have a higher sensor strength as well :d, do something , nurf the ships , nuf ecm , or boost eccm's. supported"
"most ecm ships are paperthin and you can destroy it easily with the right weapons.you are just doing it wrong./not supported"
"eccm modules need boost. ecm drones need nerf."
"1) no.2) bite me..."
"oh look. it's this thread again."
"proposal on a way to stacking penalise ecm:for every cycle you are jammed (or every 10 seconds, or w/e) you gain some resistance, lets say your crew starts fixing your bloody sensors or something. this bonus decreases while your not jammed. this way a ecm boat would still be able to jam alot, but after a while youd break free and be able to do stuff for a while. ecm boat can then swap to harrassing someone else while waiting.pros:no permajamecm boats require some more skillcons:implementation"
"1.0"
"i remember the good old days where people used to fly them scary blasterthrons in low sec..."
"this idea really scares me, because it will end up me using neut-susceptible lasers (and ridiculous amounts of cap/shot) while blasters get the same range.you have the best dps, you have barely any cap usage (don't kid yourselves).the megathron is still a favorite of many pilots, because battleships don't need to get into range because they usually warp in at range due to a frigate, recon, (etc) tackling."
"this is definitely not what needs to be done."
"blasters are quite bad now, but the fault does not lie with the weapon. to deliver your dps, you have to get [really] close to your enemy, and it's nigh impossible to do that right now. by the time you get to your enemy you're dead, if you get there at all because of scrams, webs and other ships being faster. blaster boats need the ability to close distance much better than they do now; how that should be done is yet to be figured out. right now equipping blasters is like a boxer having t-rex arms.essentially, the weapon itself is fine, it's just that you can't use it.about rails, i don't know much about them except that i'd like the firing animation to be more attractive."
"like all of us... :/when i began scanning i only do it on certain regions with flashy colors, as it's way easier to see all probes with this type of backgroundadding an option to reset camera on probe x would also be useful."
"i fully support this."
"bump!!"
"endorsed good prop"
"supported"
"definately be very useful."
"a long overdue ability! good prop!"
"totally agree revamp is needed to help corp managment all together,"
"please do this."
"supported."
"good idea!"
"signed"
"i concur. this would be a very good for everyone"
"signed"
"supported."
"needed more than air tbh. *click.*"
"signed"
"i fully agree that power is given to the thief and that should not be allowed without some form of tracing them... you have my support good sir"
"supported in full."
"supported. theft should imo be allowed but traceable"
"supported and signed"
"as i am another who suffered an over 2 billion isk loss for my corp from a thief. i fully support 110%"
"signed."
"supported"
"yet another victim... supported!!"
"bump"
"pw pos for the win but yea help ccp"
"drolling here. i would love thisalso can we get a micro management adminstration pos structure?so we can hand out limited access for either spacific items or tabs to other corps in are alliance for like deliveries for us production corps in the alliances of 0.0"
"i don't see destroyers as needing much of a boost as a class. afs could use something as they cost considerably more than a destroyer. but on the whole i think frigate class ships are pretty well balanced and the thrasher may be a bit op. i'm certainly seeing more thrashers around than any t2 frig - ceptor or af. but then again i'm flying around fw space, and dessies unlike t2 frigs can go in a minor plex. i don't think that explains it all though."
"i will not buy a console. also, ever since playing ut99 competitively i refuse to play fps with a joypad/thumbstick.that being said, the interaction between eve and dust could potentially be a good thing, at least during the ephemeral lifespan of dust."
"although i'm not happy that resources and manpower have been diverted from the basic eve for dust (and incarna), i am looking forward to the addition of dust 514. i've essentially been a computer-only player all of my life but i finally broke down and purchased an xbox 360 this past winter specifically for dust. i've been practicing with cod-mw & mw2 and a few others so i'm confident i'll be able to hold my own when dust is released (and no, i'm not a kid - i'm old as dirt).as stated by others, if you aren't interested in dust, just don't use the interaction - no one is forcing you to - but i think it will add a new dimension to eve that should bring more players into the fold. i'm just hoping that eventually, with the addition of incarna, players from both games will be able to interact in ways beyond just the text communications such as dust players coming up to stations and pilots being able to go to planet-based areas. we'll just have to wait and see what developes."
"i was excited bout dust right up until i heard it would be on a console, makes me wonder what passes for brains at ccp, won't buy it, won't recommend it, will find ways to grief it out of eve."
"i know this topic has been discussed at great length throughout the community so i am going to do my best to combine what i've seen scattered across 300+ posts and condense it into 1 meaningful and hopefully realistic post.1) balance - insurance has been broken far too long with this due to the release of the new sovereignty system and furthermore by planetary interaction (pi). re-balance insurance costs/repayment to be better suited to a re-created market.2) criminal acts - insurance should not be paid out to those who lose their ship in the process of a criminal act either by a player, concord, station/gate guns.3) wars - again insurance should not be paid out during a war, i don't see geico insuring destroyers in the middle east kind of idea.4) haulers - haulers would like to be able to purchase additional insurance to protect the cost of their cargo, especially important for those who do hauling as a business.5) alliance insurance - make it so an alliance can insure a ship for a player.that is all - i stayed away from politics, finger-pointing, etc... intentionally, yes all of these have been mentioned before but are spread over 300+ posts so this is a condensed version for the ease of ccp/csm to see it and hopefully address it.thanks,marcus covinus"
"maybe you haven't noticed... but this has already been implemented. insurance costs are now supposedly \"realigned\" automatically every month or so based on the market mineral prices.you'll find some support with this idea. however, ccp has stated that it is hesitant to do so on the basis that newbies make [many] mistakes.for me, personally... i feel it would severely restrict combat in low-sec as one party or another will have to go gcc for any engagement to happen. and it's hard enough to get people to commit to a fight without having them factor in insurance as well (i.e. less brawls and more skirmishing). this is by far one of the best stealth \"nerf-wardecs\" idea i have seen to date. +1 internets for your originality and roundabout fashion.i could get behind this idea. it might even tone down the suicide ganking whines a bit (maybe not?).correct me if i'm wrong, but i believe that corps can already do this. overall... some good ideas, many less so. so i'm going to go withnot supported."
"what if he's -5 but doesn't have gcc atm? which brings this to:fixed."
"1) payout is already fluid, change already made. although not as much as could be, and not region specific.2) that would destroy lowsec pvp. canceling insurance for concord kills, and at most sentry kills, should be more than enough.3) why not? by the same concept no pvp ships should be insured because they're likely to get popped. eve insurance is just game mechanic to make pvp less wallet-breaking, not to be compared to irl insurance.4) too much room for exploitation.5) they can always reimburse you for it."
"i must agree that paying an insurance to a pirate who got himself killed seems a bit silly. but there could be more \"fun\" ways to make the insurance of pirates less lucrative than by simply removing it. i actually came up with two ideas:a)add a new insurance \"clause\" which would basically cost 5%/10% of the price of your current insurance and this clause would be necessary for you to be insured in the two cases you described.b) this one is mainly focused on the criminal acts part . what about making security status affect the insurance price? maybe something like 1 or 2% per sec level . like this pirates will see their insurance become more expensive.but maybe i'm too creative . i would also like to add the total removal of insurances during criminal acts and alliance wars might deter people from pvp'ing a lot ."
"i would support insurance removal for concord kills, but certainly not for anything that caused a gcc. as others have mentioned, you would really screw lowsec pvp.1: it was fixed2: see above3: no4: be more careful, also see above. removal of concordokken payouts would promote more careful target selection among suiciders.5: probably not all that necessary, just transfer isk if they really want to do that."
"u mad?"
"invincible macrominers."
"no thanks"
"ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha rofl!!!you're playing the game backwards my friend.go to 0.0 problem solved.you're already shooting pos's you're at war with so there'll be little difference."
"didn't think about that. but i doubt a macro at this point in time has the skills to fly a cap ship."
"*coughs*onlytakes6or7monthsofspecialtytraining*coughs*"
"you guys both have it wrong. you don't need a macro with a dread. you have a giant cargo hold to mine into. highsec dreads used to be able to mine, non-stop, for hours afk."
"then i still want a nyx in high sec so i can mine non stop. you just can't dock..."
"hear me out.what if we could target specific systems in a ship?be able to disable communications. be able to disable propulsion systems or weapons systems.yes, i know you could still use ts or ventrillo, but if you disable comms then you wouldn't be able to warp to corpie without probing him out or something.it'd be nice if we could target a heavy dps dealer and destroy its weapon systems to level the playing field a bit and allow for engagements to last longer.this would probably encourage more ransoms as some pirates, once comms are disabled have more time to negotiate a ransom. if ships became harder to kill and lasted long enough to disable other ships' systems players would be more inclined to getting into more battles.instead of replacing ships often you replace broken and destroyed systems.just thinking out loud.begin the flames!"
"because eve pvp is about the size of the blob, not intelligent tactics.what i'd rather see is an fof scrambler that breaks up all fleets, paint everyone with red aggro, and reset drone aggro."
"this is an idea that has been brought up before. i believe one such thread even got a dev response stating something to the effect that he liked the idea very much but that there were technical limitations on implementing it.you'll find this idea right up there in popularity with \"line of sight firing\" and \"keyboard control\" for ships."
"already in the backlog, vote for issue 99 in the backlog priorization thread:"
"yeah, there are, but that's not the point.point is that it's the best frigate (even faction) and no one considers buying the others because the dramiel outperforms it."
"see my post higher up.. a taranis is capable of doing it..."
"i'm not sure where you are flying. but not only are other frigates considered they are purchased and flown. i see lots of other frigates. i rarely fly the dramiel either, becasue it has little in the way of surprise value. there is really only one way (maybe 2) i would fit it and it is the common way. people used to not understand the ship so lots of pilots in them got tons of easy kills. those days are over for the most part. plus it costs way too much - not only the hull but the optimal fittings which are required to really make it shine. if you end up with a scram and 2 webs on you your going down fast. im not saying i would never fly one but there are several other ships in the frigate class i want to try first."
"lol"
"i agreed. npc corps should be wardecc-able"
"if ankh got also a 30 day then she's \"free\" today.one is tempted to infer from her silence that the punishment was more rigorous..."
"what you describe is a gift to pirates, send them the haulers/traders for them to shoot up as they attempt to pass through.the game play style of sitting in lowsec to pounce on people is fine but what makes those people think anyone wants to play mouse to their cat? the fact that lowsec needs a boost is evidence that people aren't by and large interested in being their victims, at best they might hope for some interlopers who go down there to fight and might end up getting bashed on by all the locals who lay in wait for that juicy mission runner who thought they could get in/out or the like minded hauler/explorer. i don't have all the answers but i think a lowsec that caters to small scale pvp through some mechanics would offer a better 'future' for lowsec than trying to pack buffalo in a pen for the mighty warriors to hunt."
"this kind of suggestion miss a critical point: the rate of success and the numbers of the predators in low sec is too high to sustain a healthy ecology, i.e. to have a thriving low sec population. in rl the success rate of predators hunts is 20-30%, in eve terms it would mean that only 20%-30% of the attempted attacks (not simply \"i have seen someone in system/warping to the gate\" but actual\"i have locked him end fired on him\") should be successful instead of the current way higher percentage if you want a population in low sec. beside that you are asking for a free meal: \"force targets to me\". it can be fun for you but not for the target as you will try to have overwhelming forces ready to slaughter him. simply too many people play pirates because it is \"cool\", making the profession a failure."
"you are just saying that it does not make sense to add an opportunity to lowsec because it would be a gift to pirates. and so how would you fix lowsec? you have to give something new to lowsec or take something old away from empire or 0.0 and give it to lowsec. there are no other ways. in ccp vision, lowsec is the place for corporations who have the force and presence to camp the gates and/or farm there. the problem is that many lowsec system are too much populated and there is too much traffic for this to happen... for example, amamake will never be controlled by a small corporation, even if a small corp can achieve some good results. ammatar lowsec is far more quiet instead. the success rate of predator hunts just depends on how strong or able the prey is. right now there is no reward for the prey for being strong: imagine you have the pilots to escort a freighter through lowsec. why should you even bother to do it when you can just do jita-amarr with autopilot? the fact is that the only reasons why you could want to bring some real force in lowsec are free pvp without political and economical consequences (when you are fighting just for the sake of it, without defending/conquering anything)factional warfare (even if there are almost no consequences for it, so it's like point 1) maybe access to lucrative lvl5 missions in my vision, lowsec should be populated by groups of pilots that want power and economical rewards, and are ready to kill for it. right now, if you want such things it's far better and easier to go into npc 0.0, because lowsec is worthless (apart from lvl5 missions).so my idea is a gift to pirates? read this again then. my proposal is a nerf to trading ease, and thus a gift to the more organized traders.the market is one of the biggest forces in eve, if interregional trade is forced to go through lowsec it will be more populated, and interregional trade will be more lucrative for those brave and fit enough. my ideas is a htfu for the traders."
"sorry i'm late to the party here, i've had precious little time for keeping up with the forums due to work and other rl stuff.there are some great and interesting ideas here...are you guys aware of my ideascale community for making low sec matter? if you're not participating there yet, i encourage you to check it out and add your ideas there. it's really a much better way than the forums to ... let people weigh in on ideas and allow the best supported ones to become obvious. i am going to be spending some few hours this weekend reading through, commenting on, and adding my own votes and ideas there. hope to see you there!"
"already in the backlog, vote for issue 99 in the backlog priorization thread:"
"flog it! :)"
"bumping this to the top!and yeah i support this hands down. come on ccp put aside the antics for getting new players and fix all the things in this game that are done halfway. yes it's a huge list but you got yourself into this mess in the first place..."
"35k players in the cluster right now and i can't login, i'm #300 in the queue. surprise eve is still a broken piece of **** with no sign from ccp that they care about their flagship.haha it doesnt even give me any kind of message now. it just sits on the authenticating screen."
"yup, getting the same problem here. guess i'll go do something else for a while... heck, i was pretty much only on the forums to see if i could figure out why i couldn't connect.status: unknown"
"maybe the solution is one fix/rebalancing/shiny new ships expansion and one feature expansion every year.since eve has become such a monstruous mix of code and lag, this is the way to go, or the game will die.anyway, supported.! commit to quality over quantity = excellence.also, don't forget to attend the mass testing guys, interesting things are happening in sisi"
"yes. please fix the core before you pile more things on top of it."
"20-30km is to much but more range is right. it needs to be double optimal then what it is right now 15km. that would do two things. first it puts the optimal right between projectials and pulse's were it should be. after that i would wait and see how that go's for a spell.and yes optimal needs inc. blasters are from the days gone by when bs's could first go 1,200km and from a second age were you could double web effectivaly.now both thoughs days are gone. i have more ideals after the optimal is inc. but that should be the first step right there."
"6km blaster range is hilariously bad with am ammo :("
"id say 1 way to boost the rails is if they had medium dps medium alpha, but were able to hit from much further ranges hten everything else. currently this is semi true. also rail guns should do mabye 5% damage penetration cause the rounds are moving at portions of the speed of light. it prolly would go throw a sheild. also railguns should do kentic and explosive damage not heat and kentic. finally the rounds are way to big. rail gun rounds can be a fraction of the size of a projectile round and still do the same damage. now for blasters they need to do the most dps in game. like 2x better than everything else. they also should have a slight tracking bonus. also blasters should do therm and kinetic damage cause there more likely plasma based. they should still be extreme close range.both should only need to reload in 5 seconds cause they don't need as much caution as projectile rounds. also they should have a kinda large cycle time cause both need a lot of energy to funchtion. thats my .2isk"
"not supported. i am all gunnery and drones. railguns are fine. blasters need fixed. and no caldarie rail ships dont need more pg becouse there shield tanks. gallent get more pg becouse are armor tanks suck more pg away from the rails then shield tanks. aka thats why caldari have more cpu on there ships for that tank. so they are already balnaced gank vers tank as they are."
"/signed rails need a buff, blasters need a uber buff and some gallente shipd cough*diemost*cough need a light buff."
"not supported. i dont see anything wrong with it. if it's not broken then leave it alone. becouse we have a long list of things that are broken."
"dont play with it... it works atm so if it aint broke dont try and fix it... instead why not apply resources to fixing other problems?"
"great solution: simple and should make everyone happy!why has it not been done yet?"
"learning skills were a completely ridiculous idea in the first place, but now that i'm used to my training speeds if they were to drop i would be very annoyed at ccp for wasting my good newbie-times training these annoying ****ty skills, unless the training was faster than it currently is."
"ecane celest,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"eyalarania,10,11,14,17,38,39,77,99,111,149,166"
"ordavion - 33, 30, 16, 13, 72, 63, 61, 62, 48, 4, 14, 54, 34, 39, 115"
"majorscrewup, 12, 23, 59, 102, 122, 136, 154,"
"stephen senagi #10 #71 #93 #97 #99 #151"
"lesmon,3,19,23,43,51,52,95,111,115,122,133,150,160,165,167,49,84,100,104,124"
"kyrlin dishai,1,5,10,15,19,23,24,25,34,45,47,69,88,98,101,105,136,152,167,168"
"dontmindme justpassnthru,5,19,15,23,34,45,51,52,69,66,73"
"eyedoll,14,19,23,34,35,40,48,67,82,86,90,126,135,136,148,153,154"
"thanks everyone. i'm closing the voting now so i can collate the data in preparation for the meeting later today. i will report on the results as soon as i can."
"rangar,38,39,40,99,107"
"graf drakul,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"shania twain,39,40,38,99,107"
"dracul trading,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"draculs erzklopper,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"citrid,14,31,34,38,39,40,55,67,96,97,107,108,113,116,122,126,135,136,139,166"
"sotmassacer,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"plauscher,14,31,34,38,39,40,55,67,96,97,107,108,113,116,122,126,135,136,139,166"
"felicia knuth,14,31,34,38,39,40,55,67,96,97,107,108,113,116,122,126,135,136,139,166"
"tandus,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"this is great. however, there should definitely be separate lists for wishlist items like a fourth assault frigate bonus and armageddon day 2 than no-brainer gameplay enhancements like naming all your ships in a station and faction item icons. still, good on ya for doing this. my input:5, 10, 30, 39, 47, 50, 99, 101, 110, 135, 136, 163, 166, went with the quick fixes rather than game-changers. and once again my head exploded while reading the csm pi suggestions. :)"
"on a saturday morning?"
"ok, just want to post some preliminary results. here are some of the top issues:votes weighted by number of votes, 20 points allocated per voter.total number of voters = 335item count score popular issue name---- ----- ----- ------- ----------- 34 179 388.39 53.43% commit to excellence (csm) 39 145 265.58 43.28% corporation bookmarks (csm) 38 84 197.89 25.07% corp hangar audit logs (csm) 40 100 193.85 29.85% corporation and alliance tool overhaul (csm) 14 144 182.22 42.99% allign to bookmarks (csm) 107 70 161.35 20.90% outpost dock radii (csm) 99 72 153.20 21.49% mining crystals change color of mining laser beam (csm) 108 80 148.24 23.88% overhaul of roles and grantable roles system (csm) 164 107 131.40 31.94% view ship fittings in hanger without boarding ship (csm) 19 101 130.67 30.15% assault frigates 4th bonus (csm)however, it occurred to me (and others) that, this being eve, no doubt some people felt their opinions were more worthy of consideration than others. so i wrote a quick bit of code to look for \"chicago voters\", characters with identical votes. some of these will be false positives, of course, but here you go:eukleidesnewtonnejasonkuehnartemis shadowkael shaddarhawza1winged angelfluffythecarebearjaverkim wildedamacleasebeta babedoorsdownzion89 qazbahtrapperznopsieleria orionnykoonzaralloixecutormelah tasnumorksienceladoseris urizengraf drakuldracul tradingdraculs erzkloppersotmassacertandussonoflothar cmdr prometheus lthunterltcmd hunterdraco selenguillaume leconquerantselentia wardalaesarshasishydra ulikreasearch draugz mciceteajeschlikriegsmeisterin lemoraacdcwot ssoxolorghrobert71khi'gilanlazysiegeluthien bedwyrrsalacious trinitysoniccjkjormela glimsakura glimrobina sudarskyavamsjelmerhirohito samadhozeemy blackdaliavenkmannzar'aleljinnjake sull'yzadus rejanjane ladoli csubakka 17drmovesalot 17boonedoxx 17zyklon41oliv2kenobikampfgoessncaliorilkampfsockemiramell kira kubajaschi motigorgohlemrangarshania twainlaedyjanice khanchrysta phinemortaockmisscreantwraithikordavionkatharina dematierkeltatfrejarea semtagmagicmorphonejoy productivajelena productivaecane celesteyalaraniacitridplauscherfelicia knuthafter removing the duplicate votes (i was nice and gave the chicago voters one vote each, just like everyone else, the top 10 are:votes weighted by number of votes, 20 points allocated per voter.total number of voters = 335item count score popular issue name---- ----- ----- ------- ----------- 34 144 231.35 42.99% commit to excellence (csm) 14 109 138.96 32.54% allign to bookmarks (csm) 39 83 123.55 24.78% corporation bookmarks (csm) 19 95 120.35 28.36% assault frigates 4th bonus (csm) 164 88 109.59 26.27% view ship fittings in hanger without boarding ship (csm) 69 84 103.61 25.07% fix rockets (csm) 97 81 103.03 24.18% make guns continue firing at previous target after reload (csm) 23 73 99.28 21.79% black ops improvements part 2 (csm) 33 82 92.72 24.48% commit to fixing the ui (csm) 120 68 88.80 20.30% review destroyers (csm)to those of you who were smart enough to stuff the ballot box with slightly different vote lists, congratulations. you win at eve."
"aiden garner,7,11,12,14,21,38,39,40,56,66,86,86,99,104,107,117"
"unfortunately, we have to pretty much finish our prioritization work and submit lists to ccp this weekend. our working meeting is this afternoon."
"trebor i send you a mail ingame.about these chicago votes. perhaps you have the time to read it before you meet.would be great."
"oh, cool. good luck with that.great political reference with the multiple votes, btw."
"dariah stardweller, 1, 5, 7, 14, 19, 23, 33, 34, 84, 94, 102, 104, 110, 113, 132, 142, 143, 144, 151, 167.edit: goddammit, don't close voting only after a few days .meh :p"
"ortokur :14,23,38,39,40,99,107,108"
"blue claus ,14,23,38,39,40,99,107,108"
"xtrader, 6,17,38,39,40,53,66,77,99,107,160,167"
"jack dant,5,8,14,19,21,23,43,47,53,56,67,78,80,95,98,103,108,113,135,153"
"3 account security enhancements (csm)19 assault frigates 4th bonus (csm)23 black ops improvements part 2 (csm)33 commit to fixing the ui (csm)34 commit to excellence (csm)38 corp hangar audit logs (csm)40 corporation and alliance tool overhaul (csm)46 directscan improvement (csm)69 fix rockets (csm)100 modular starbase (csm)108 overhaul of roles and grantable roles system (csm)115 remote repping and aggression (csm)134 ship fittings visible via show info without boarding ship. (csm)137 show bookmarks with markers on local grid (csm)138 show damaged drones in drone bay (csm)141 sorting deliveries (csm)154 titan bridge range (csm)156 tower under attack mails to pos gunners (csm)166 watch list and broadcasts (csm)168 wild 0.0 (csm)edit: blah nvm, realized voting has been closed *sigh*"
"t34r4k,35,34,40,107,131,134,153,154,165,3,10,21,37,55,67,70,81"
"post with ur main ... alt posting is highest level of f.a.g.0try. it is bloby just in ur wet dreams and we are mot interested in highsec. actually highsec ***s are interested in exploiting current mechanics."
"oh so very supported. the click fest actually has me not logging in, due to \"ugh... i don't wanna deal with it!\""
"pi is probably the least labor intensive activity in eve and you want to make it easier? having to spend 10-15 minutes a day on a passive income too much to deal with? hell, if that's too much for you why not avail of the 5 day cycle? better yet, why not just leave pi for the ones that actually appreciate the income?"
"signed!"
"signed"
"anything that allows me to have a few rolls of duct tape in my cargo is supported. :d"
"this makes sense"
"supported, provided it can also be used for seducing other pilots, you know, like when you go to the park at night, dressed in black, and wait beside the runners track in the bushes......."
"i disagree with your assessment of what holds minmatar ships together so i will support this but only with these additional, ummm, additions...a paperclip autocannon with color-coded ammo paperclips of small, medium and large sizes.a bubblegum drivejammer that blows a bubble around your target which stops all propulsion systems including afterburners and when finally popped, leaves a sticky mass on all cameras effectively blinding the ship."
"in that case, we should also get 'dynamic configuration' of our ships.whenever our ship is damaged, and is repaired, the location of the fins, or even the general makeup of the ship if it was badly damaged ( into hull ) should be altered. afterall, putting bits back with ducttape tends to change how something looks. especially if you keep doing it.another point though.. when firing said duct tape at enemy ships, it should be possible to lower their agility with it. making thrusters and whatnot stuck int he same position, making it harder for the enemy pilot to change directions.i also want a 'scrap cannon', where i can use my own ship as ammo to fire at the enemy.and since matari are supposed to be 'terrorists', when do we get an exploding frigate?or some kind of minmatar mod, you put on a ship, and when you activate it, your ship explodes, and everthign around you will get horrid damage. like a 1 shot smartbomb, or a stealthbmber bomb, fired at point blank range. this would also mean you'd probably pod yourself while doing this ofcourse.. the upside being that you do massive damage to an enemy fleet around you."
"i use chewing gum and bailing wire. your suggestion is unbalanced and biased towards duct tape users. not supported."
"i use wd-40 and do not support this proposal."
"nope, go away please."
"supporting duct tape launchers for the silliest race in the game. you do realise that most \"terrorist\" groups don't believe in killing themselves to achieve their aims, right?"
"you're forgetting something here... capsuleers are immortal...all that would happen was we'd wake up in a medical bay without implants.. oh wait.. we knew we were goign to blow ourselves up.. so we arranged for a clone that didn't have any."
"actually my two proposals in concert would work better. and your modification steals too much of lowsec's thunder."
"tbh, lowsec doesn't really have thunder...that's kind of the problem which csm is working to solve. they are even writing a proposal to ccp on how they would improve low sec....most systems are completely empty. no fun."
"why is that everyone seems to want to punish the miners that actually put an effort into mining. every solution like this to attack macros only punishes the miners that don't. all ccp needs to do is flag accounts active for superhuman lengths of time. and if someone is caught macroing ccp should 0 sp their ass and delete all their ingame assets first offense. on the second offense a loss of 30 days game time, and third permaban. stiffen the penalty for macroing and soon enough macroers will just about cease to exist.we all know their is no way possible that a player could sit there damn near 23 hours a day and not be a macro."
"because you haven't the slightest idea what you're talking about. this doesn't punish miners one little bit, it makes them spend a few minutes probing down the belt just like those of us that mine in 0.0 do already.this only \"punishes\" those people to lazy to take 3 minutes to probe down an easy-to-detect grav site.since you seem to think otherwise you surely are capable of backing that assertion up. so how does making you spend a few minutes probing punish you? it makes it much more difficult for macros."
"this would just force the macroer to actually play the game long enough to probe down the sites. then all they have to do is bm the site. macros win again."
"the basic idea isn't bad but there are problems with implementing it.1) not really, the asteroids would disappear in a very short time after dt and the newbies would have nothing to mine.2) why only in high sec? if you do that you should do it in all systems. 3) we currently don't have moving belts because redrawing and reselecting a new locations for every asteroid in every belt (ore even 80% of the high sec belts) every few hours will use a lot of the server power. if the sserver was to use several pre-definite positions for the belts and cycle between them in a few days/weeks dedicate miners would have mapped them all and cycle between them till they find the set in use.so ccp has removed your static belts instead of adding scannable asteroids fields plus the ability to add to the number of those with the mining upgrades? cry more."
"macros cant work with 3d space camera moving and probe moving/adjusting. they will need a real person to probe belts 24/7. it's not the same as scanning the screen looking for words, actually physically moving objects (probes) trough 3d space isn't something 99% of the macros in the world can do. they would need very high advanced ai to do so, and that would cost the rmt's a ****ton of money. proof me wrong if i am.there for i support this.newbies should just probe like everyone else then, or do something else."
"no.you force newbies, especially the clueless to probe out belts as all the static ones will be ate by macros and other lazy a@$ punks in retrievers/covetors/hulks in newbie starter systems. just because you say the little static ore will remain for newbies doesn't make it so, try playing the game more.you basically destroy the usefulness of gsc, setting up strings of them in belts for miners to mine into as they move along. that is a basic tactic of players on their own, those who don't have an orca, etc.forcing the roids to be depleted is another tactic of play how i want you to, bad idea. people may well move on to other in system sites, or other systems over seeing their profit per hour drop to 1/2 or less mining the crap ore. or you make it so only those in select time zones or no job/life can mine the 'good' ore and the crap is left for everyone else.you make the rats tougher, so now the newer players and possibly regular mining barges can't cut it out there, a retriever has crap slots, covetor isn't much better, who knows about a mining cruiser or frigate cause all the static ore was ate by previous players."
"that's funny and here i was thinking this was a multiplayer game."
"i like this idea.-mining becomes a little more of a thinking game-macros won't be eliminated, but the people running them have to put more effort in, which makes it worth that much less-more realistic-hisec and lowsec grav sites are currently uselessthe only drawback i can see is that it takes a bit more learning in order to mine, but there's already a tutorial dedicated to scanning when players start the game."
"what is funny is how people selectively pick out one thing in a lame attempt to disregard every other idea/point made, that or they really aren't capable of handling the act of reading comprehension so on seeing their trigger they respond."
"i support this on the condition that at least half of the belts can be scanned out with the d-scanner."
"that would defeat the purpose, macrominers would be able to macro that. make them easy to scan down with the probes but make them require probes. it doesn't take much to get ability to launch 4 probes."
"not supported.in particular, i think the fitting for hulks is extremely well-balanced. if you want to afk while 3 battleships in nullsec wail on you, you're gonna have to pay for some deadspace loot. and you're going to need decent to good shield and cap skills. as it should be.the real problem with the mineral market is macro miners. lowbies mining in retrievers will never make jack until that's fixed (though they're never gonna be rich)."
"t3 ships are created in wh, with goods looted in wh, and one of their main use is on wh.the ability to change subsystem on a wh pos seems totally natural for me."
"supported? oh yes."
"excellent idea, supported."
"i can see where name changing should be allowed but very early in you subscription to the game. suppose when joining eve you thought of a silly name just having a laugh not intending to stay. you got char building and got to like the game to stay but the name is now niggling away at you but to start a new char would cost you two months of training. in this case a time limit of say 2 months and petition along with a system to ensure that it is no an exploit, could allow for a name change."
"i support the original proposal on the condition that rats in 0.1-0.4 be much more profitable than rats in 0.5-0.6."
"quoted for great justice"
"this, it would attract some needed attention to low sec space."
"topic: real life advertisingseveral mmorpg's have in-game advertising as a way to pay some of the bills. on face value, having a pizza hut ad on a medieval castle is silly and a determent to gameplay immersion. however, a few months ago, i went back and tried out anarachy online to see how it was doing. i played it at launch in 2001 before world events took me to the other side of the planet. anyway, they had real life advertisements and the ones they had (scifi movie, trendy sunglasses) somehow fit in their edgy scifi world. they also had ads for community sites, something i hope incarna will have. last year, at least one ccp exec spoke about an additional purchasing model for dust 514 as a way to pay for the servers. could incarna try to cash in on another kind of revenue stream to support the expansion? some people consider such advertisement to be \"selling out\". questions: how would you feel if incarna featured real life advertising as a way to support ccp's hardware infrastructure? is there any kind of real-world advertising you feel would be appropriate?if you disagree with any kind of real-world advertisement, would you support station advertisements for eve-rated sites? discuss"
"why would i want ads advertising \"gamer-fuel\" when i know quafe is the only way to go?"
"bring back quafe girl!"
"it's more of a question as to whether or not you could stomach it. the ads, not the quafe."
"i would liike to be able to advertise my corp i on in-station billboards"
"1.) tracking on rails is fine. get to know your other weaponsystems and the ships they go on before changing that. the only race with gunnery tracking or gunnery problems is caldire.2. ) deimos and ferox. to be fair i dont use ferox hardly at all. but you cant give optimal inc's on gallente ships that is a caldire bouns. just like your never going to see a tracking inc on caldire ships. i also dont play with ships smaller then bs's much anymore this days ether. 3.) i know blasters need some love. i do belive that 100% optimal inc is what they need at bs level. 150% mite be right for curser level but i just dont use them that much to say myself. thats were i would start with the twiking is inc the optimal between project and pulse. keep the same tracking speed as projectils have basic ammo types that inc there tracking speeds. though it would not brack my heart to get that inc and loss some tracking to fall some were between projectials and pulses."
"i do support the hybrid notion, but i do not support blaster change. blaster need more damage and tracking, to reinstate gallente as the ultimate close-range killers. making them something inbetween lasers and autocannons woun't help the case.qft"
"look. blasters should not have more range. sh!tbust. they don't need (much) more tracking. what they need is more damage. simple.blaster boats themselves need better speed. not agility. blaster boats should have the best straight line speed but fairly poor agility. in other words, gallente blaster ships will \"charge\" at their enemies, get in range and unleash hell."
"the colors are sooo fail. ccp needs to change this asap, it takes all the fun out of scanning."
"change gfx options to high on the shader i think it is... it all works then however yes better contrasting option would be much appreciated"
"same happens with high shaders."
"went probing today, left annoyed, partly due to background color. make it usable."
"i've been soliciting feedback on the topic of corp role changes, and with the next csm meeting's issue deadline coming up, it's time to put this into an assembly hall post. this is intended as a comprehensive look at the entire topic, from top to bottom. changing existing rolesccp has previously stated that there's a hard limit on the number of possible roles due to the back-end design of the role system. this is obviously not an ideal state of affairs, but it's a limit i'll respect here. thus, my proposed changes are intended not to increase the number of total roles in game. now, on to the changes.- four roles can be removed with no major difficulties. rent office can be folded into accountant, contract manager into trader, fitting manager into communications officer, and station manager into config starbase equipment. the last i may be wrong about, i don't do 0.0 alliance work, but it seems fairly safe. this frees up four open slots for new additions. - the industry roles are fundamentally broken, and make security impossible. take the three that currently exist, and replace them with, at minimum, an \"install jobs\" role which only lets them cancel/deliver their own jobs, and a \"cancel jobs\" role which lets them work on anyone's jobs. you could also make viewing other people's jobs impossible for the basic role and have a view all jobs role, or you can split science and industry apart if you like, though i don't really see a reason to do either. - config(non-starbase) equipment should only apply to unanchoring equipment, not anchoring. bubbles and cans should be freely anchorable. - this is more ui than roles, but auditors should be able to search the audit history by role, and not just by member name - i.e., see all changes to config starbase equipment, no matter which member it was to. - ceos should be able to set default access rights for assorted pos structure types, so that people don't have to whine for access every time a new lab goes online. - the current base/headquarters/other split seems useless to me. replace it with a system where each corp storage space(pos/office) can be put into a/b/c, and people can get separate access to a, b, and c. this does remove base functionality, so perhaps a/b/base works as a compromise, but hq/other is dumb and should be replaced. also, let the ceo pick which one poses fall into by default(and maybe work in default access rights on pos structures while you're at it). new roles- the idea of a \"diplomat\" role has been proposed by ccp, to allow non-directors to set standings, and i fully support it. - corporations should have the option to switch from vote-locking bpos(which is only really appropriate for things like ipos and very centralized corps) to role-locking them. this change will require a \"blueprint manager\" role be added. - i'm torn on this, because it could make bumping too easy, but a second corp trader role should be considered, to allow you to modify/cancel other people's corp orders. - this probably runs afoul of the role limits, but \"use\" rights on office tabs could be interesting - don't allow them to take the stuff, but allow them to use it for production jobs(which could only be delivered to the same hangar tab, ofc). this could allow jobs to be outsourced with fewer security concerns, which should help newer players get into industry more easily. other- titles need to work properly, especially as regards notifications. a fuel tech-by-role gets fuelmails, while a fuel tech-by-title does not. grantable titles would be lovely as well, but again this probably qualifies as 7 new roles. - make it so that the ui doesn't make my eyes bleed. yes, it'll use tables, but they don't have to be horrible, unintuitive, poorly-explained tables. - allow corp-level api data to be split out by role, not limited to directors only - e.g., let fuel techs see the starbasedetail xml. this can be a ceo toggle or just an automatic system."
"separate access rights for individual poses. at the moment i can't let people online more guns at our staging tower when under attack, without giving them the right to unanchor all our mining poses.hangar tabs in the sma, with respective restricted access.also, slightly off-topic, but personal hangars for each member in the cha. let directors or a separate role set a quota for everyone, or let directors access each member's hangar (to prevent someone from taking up all the cargo space)."
"this would allow anyone that can control a pos to config outposts and offline tcus (thus removing sovereignity from their alliance) - i don't think this is a good idea.the rest is partly dangerous and mostly very useful. supported, although i don't like every aspect of it."
"excellent proposal."
"supported, again.this has been brought up before, it will be brought up again.this"
"an excellent suggestion. fully supported. might i also suggest adding: make the entire roles interface much simpler and easier to use? i've been playing for a couple of years and still can't always make it do what i want."
"once again supporting a classic hersch proposal.unfortunately i seriously doubt there's a snowballs chance in hell ccp will even touch the damn thing for the next 18 months to 2 years in light of recent developments... but one can hope."
"in order to eliminate hundreds of unecessary clicking i suggest that ccp implement a drag & drop feature on the containers in the overview, plus the shift key feature to multiselect containers. on the multiselect, only containers whitin 2500m would be selected, then you proceed to a drag and drop in your cargo and the content of the containers would be transfered to your cargo. if the containers contains more than your cargo, only some items would transfer."
"i'm having some trouble understanding your proposal, so please bear with me, here.when i go salvaging and i open a new loot container, i left-click any item in that loot container, hit control-a to select all, and then click-and-drag from the loot container to my cargohold. thus, i never have to drag each stack one-at-a-time. does this address the problem you're trying to solve?...i would support some sort of functionality to auto-loot all items from a container you try to open."
"i believe he means when in range of numerous containers you gain the ability to select all in range and take their loot with one action instead of opening each and then taking it all. you'd be able to shift select them from the overview, which i gather ccp would say isn't possible.i would support the auto looting of containers you own but not for taking from other player's containers."
"hi sir, no that's how everyone proceed i guess, using the crtl+a. what i suggest is a simple drag and drop from the overview, so no need to open each containers one by one. also the multi-select would allow you to gather every containers in a blob, do a shift+multiselect then 1 drag and drop would empty all containers within range (if you have enough cargo space). much more efficient and way less clicking."
"i'm a programmer and it's definitely possible. also, i agreee that this feature works only for your containers or your fleet's."
"i support 110% i am tired of items disappearing. and that way people can also track me borrowing from corp mate incase i forget to remind them i have it."
"i'm all for this! ccp has to work this out this should of been in the game already."
"supported in full. signed."
"too unbalancing. the coercer extra mid could be useful though. and missiles for the cormorant would be great too.not supported"
"issue: marauders are only susceptible to caldary e-war, and not to any other races. i don't see any reasons for only caldary to get the luxury of having boosted e-war against marauders, everybody should be equal. solution one: remove the weaknesssolution two: make them equally suceptable to everythingsolution three: give every marauder a differnt weakness, for example gallente will be vulnerable to minmatar, but resilient to caldary and amarr. caldary will be vulnerable to amarr, amarr- to caldary,e.t.c. or in any other combination."
"i am absolutely, positively, 110%, undeniably, irrefutably, irrecoverably sure that i do want to ****ing undock \"while in combat\".god damnit that box is ****ing me off.stop catering to carebears, idiots, and newbies. or at the very least, give us the option to shut the damn thing off.rage, yes, i'm mad."
"damn straight"
"maybe you should quit playing stupid carebear docking games in empire and come to 0.0 where the ~~r34l pvp~~ takes placeedit: formatting."
"implying docking games don't happen in low/nullsec!"
"sup guys?"
"i for one am always down with braking new ground. that is what ccp is doing here. with mmo interfacing with a fps game. i even like good fps games. but i put down console game in my 20's. just got a new alienware for fathers day and all. i knew years ago after geting on my friends pc that i would never go back to console games.long story short. i'm happy for ccp and braking new ground. it's just that there is not much in it for me other the pi and station walking. i'm not even doing pi so that leave station walking. i know thats going to be cool for all of like 20 mins. then i will probly get back in my ships and never get back out again.i would be a 1,000 times more happy if they were puting a pc version out with the console game."
"my point exactly.regards, lax"
"lenna rae; pick 11; 27; 47; 50; 51; 53; 84; 120; 168;"
"op lacks content. thread locked."
"no. 0.0 players don't like being unable to afford ships"
"1: supposedly already fixed2: maybe change it to you get less payout based on how many ships you collect insurance on in a month or something. i.e. the more you collect the less you get. but any kill with concord involved should nullify the insurance contract.3: no4: i think insuring items in a courier contract would be nice that way the issuer can insure the value of the cargo and might decrease the exploit concerns5: i like the idea might make people more willing to fly the nice ships if they can buy insurance from there alliance to supplement the eve insurance.mongo"
"dnftt"
"or maybe she just thought: feck eve and quit. it's prolly what i would do if in a similar situation."
"godamnit i want to know!"
"ok, this is the wrong aspect to take on the csm issue. we need an effectual csm process, not only in terms of the csm election and vetting process, but in how we approach current player concerns. many players are very happy with the current state of the game, stemming from the fact that they are limited in their scope of how they play. they do one aspect, and exclude most others to any depth.this does'nt mean that some of the issues being \"whined\" about are without merit. i believe that if there was an in-game interface that allowed for an easy evaluation of current balance issues as put forward from the player base, where a player could not only agree, dis-agree or abstain from adding their two pence to the convo,but also puruse the topics at hand, we would see more people taking notice of the csm process. as of now, with little transparency in the process, as well as almost no concise gathering of the data on the issues, the player base as a whole isnt going to have a lot of concern with the issues.rummaging through 100's of posts, with flame wars and trolls mucking up the thread, most people would rather simply work around balance issues, or exploit them, and get on with their game. only a few people are actually going to take the time to look at deeper issues.the reason i am so adamant about this particular aspect of the issue is that poor balance in the game results in less actual long term subscriptions to the game. no one wants to play a game that has obvious issues limiting their scope of play. if they are coming to the dark universe that is eve, with it's many hardships already extant, why would they stay if mechanics issues make that existence in eve even harder?"
"without so much as updating her blog? that seems rather out of character, to put it mildly."
"yes, what you are asking is a free gift. pirating is already easy and you ask to force prey to you.you are like a lazy lion asking to remove all the rivers with the exception of the one where you hunt, so that every animal should got there to drink and you will get more and easier prey.what you are asking is not an opportunity to low sec. you are asking a boost for a particular playstile and boosting pirating is exactly what low sec don't need. los sec need boosting to the activities that can attract people to live there, not an increase of passer by so that pirates have a easier time finding prey.even you admit what is your true intent and what will be the effect:and that would boost low sec? or it will only boost a single playstile?"
"player councils in mmos are only worthwhile when the game developer listens and values their input *cough*cough*ccp!*cough*cough* /angrystare"
"1.0"
"more support!"
"agreed"
"the csm has been doing this (rfc-s) for years, the players longer in features&suggestions forums.we, csm, players can only give the best of 'exactly what we want' as can be arranged from different people weighing in on an issue, ultimately that decision on what and how to change x is up to someone or several people at ccp not any one player. ccp doesn't allow the csm to speak to the people who get to decide if x is going to be changed they speak to the people who get told what to do but don't have the power to decide to do it. i may be wrong perhaps they speak to people who could make that decision but haven't for any number of reasons over the past couple of years.i and any other player can write a detailed post or even have a one on one conversation with the programmers/developer who can make the changes i want but they are not going to listen to a single player on any issue nor are the players likely to 100% on every detail of a detailed proposal of how to change x."
"yes"
"yes, obv."
"supporting"
"1.0"
"damn straight!"
"i actually quite like the learning skills, but i don't know why.regardless, they don't need to be in game and when a simple and effective solution like this one has been presented, there is no reason they shouldn't be removed.all i would say is that instead of giving players a 10000% skill training time increase, ccp could use their new sp allocation method that they first showed off around 6 weeks ago due to the 20 hour server downtime. but of course you didn't know about that like 3 months ago."
"if ccp wanted some kind authoritative, definitive answer on this, they could just run another \"election\" like they did with the csm and establish which items were the most popular.i suspect more than 12% of accounts would vote.still, props to trebor..."
"faldar cryosis,38,39,40,107,114,136,164,165,"
"more love"
"u don't \"think\" that is the case? how about instead of \"thinking\" from only the pirate's myopic point of view, actually put yourself in the bounty hunter's shoes. try it.also bear in mind that one lossmail is a lot to lose to some ppl and that's why it's the same here.at the same time though, this isn't swg. and what ppl can do under your system they can already do under the current one, only they're not constrained by not being able to shoot non-reds. all u're offering is chump change as a \"reward\" to make ppl spend their subscription \"playing nice\" and of course, since there's no guarantee of that reward because there's no way of telling who your target is and how he behaves, why would anyone want to even try it? and risk getting blobbed with nothing to show for it? face it, no one's gonna give up the fights they could've gotten with criminal ganking when winnable low sec fights r already scarce enough as it is (at least for non-blobs). again, instead of thinking of the pirate and only the pirate, put yourself in the bounty hunter's shoes for once."
"signed"
"you clearly do not understand the significance of this proposal!"
"we can go further with this.gaylente have ***** cannons that shoot prostitutes that distract crew on enemy shipsamarr have scripture speakers that force enemy ships to listen to holy music and readingscaldari have auto macro scam mode that brings the scam chat in jita local to the battlefield"
"lowsec's thunder"
"the fitting changes are designed to allow the fitting of a probe launcher, the hulk doesn't need it's tank buffed, and that isn't in the proposal.i do have a deadspace fitted hulk that can laugh at 3xbs all day long, so i know how to fit them.some of the lesser-tanked mining barges and exhumers might need a slight tanking boost to deal with this, but only if they need it [t1 minin barges probably do.. the skiff/mackinaw might, the hulk should only get the cpu/pg/high slot for the probe launcher]"
"i suggest that ccp make a donation to the red cross for each plex lost in game due to change in game mechanicsreported by ccp zul devblogplex? in my space? it's more likely than you think.what i suggest is that cpp run a \"plex aid for haiti\" style donation may be ones a year or at end of each q with numbers on how many plex's have been destroyed to be reported by dr. eyjog in his quarterly economic newsletter.i fully support the change in game mechanics that removed the restriction on undocking from a station with a plex making them a destroyable item.but given the the number of 30 day pilot's license's that may be destroyed as a result of the new mechanics adding up to thousands of dollars. i feel cpp should give a percentage of the profit in this case to a charity due the the fact it no longer has to honor 30 days of game time that was paid up front when the plex was purchased. precedent for plex donation has been set by the \"plex aid for haiti\" regards anitta blake"
"good idea."
"hell why not, maybe the red cross can fix the lag with the right funding!"
"good or cancer research? fear"
"brilliant idea.it would also be some good pr with the media...\"ccp games donates another 5 thousand dollars to hundreds of needy kids who, without the support of ccp games, would surely die.\"doesn't that sound nice ccp?"
"this would make me proud to play eve./supported"
"really nice idea and no reason they shouldn't do it. the plex have been paid for, may as well put a portion of it to a good cause.or maybe they could use the extra resources to hire and fund a crack lag-fixing team..."
"great idea"
"then why arent you supporting it?"
"yea, if you dont support it, you will make babies throughout the world cry, which might keep jita spamming down to an all time low."
"no no no...lets just let ccp keep the money and have it disappear into thin air.supported!!"
"my two alts also vote yes"
"although it's highly suspicious if ccp would ever even try to lean on to this, i'd fully support op."
"good idea.."
"i support this, good cause."
"this thread is a waste of time. you cried ultra bitter tears when you heard ccp was using profit to make dust 514 and that did not stop them from doing it.now you want them to just give away money because you think they should? not gonna happen."
"i support this idea."
"if you do, then check the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" option"
"/signed"
"/sign"
"i support this idea too.i believe that ccp know what is behavior with good sense, and self respect of eve users & ccp itself is profitable in the long view than some uncomfortable money."
"i suggest donation to something useful like research for ion motors or something other than helping poor people stay poor."
"/signed"
"support"
"great idea"
"great idea, except ccp could use all that extra money to hire more developers to work on their number one priority right now, incarna!!!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"great idea!/signed"
"/signed"
"why the red cross though? if it is to be done quarterly or annually then having a poll/vote for various good causes would be more appropriate."
"upvoted"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/me signedwas thinking about something like this when i saw a km last night with a cyno kessy holding 74 plexes all destroyed so much \"wasted\" money"
"support"
"good stuff.....plus demi is hawt....."
"come to think of it, that could be thousands of dollars in subscription money ccp doesn't have to honor, anymore. i didn't think of that.supported."
"i would rather want to see ccp use that money on eve development. i wouldn't mind seeing donation drives drom time to time where the players can voluntarily donate plexes to a charity, but i don't really want to see them on a regular basis either."
"terribole idea. use the money to fix lag, not to give away money to the red cross who waste it away anyways...."
"this.no amount of charity will suppress the glaring fact they won't polish/touch the damn game for 18 months to 2 years.sorry to say... it's very little incentive to support anything that a company would do to help others when it won't even help there own damn customers."
"how about stfu and don't undock with your plex's?"
"screw charity, it enslaves people and keeps those on their knees who you're trying to help.fix eve instead."
"yes, lets give our unused computer gaming time to a money hungry ***** of a corporation with more dark secrets than lana torrins dirty panties - good idea ******."
"that's essentially in my other proposal"
"god yes, i want pizza pizza ads and movie previews on huge screens as i do the macarena."
"i demand flashing strobe light ads to induce seizures!"
"i think the only way to go is to let eve players purchase the advertising space. maybe with real money, maybe with isk (as an isk sink). i don't wanna see iphone's advertised in eve, no way."
"i would be fine if ccp advertised as long and only as long as it stays off to the side as a kind of a subliminal message. like the televisions at the gates. the ad should look like it belongs, and be available in the area that i am in (or close or have a website). also i do not want to wait for the ad to load (or have a effect on my fps or memory more than the stations already do) or have to watch one to get into incarna (if i did i wouldn't ever use the feature)."
"i could agree if the advertisers, as a prerequisite, adjust their ad to fit the immersion. it might be interesting if real-world companies got creative and put their logo on futuristic products appropriate to the eve setting.some present ads might even already fit, like the sony robot. it's just another drone, right?"
"i wouldn't notice, because i would be in a spaceship.eve is an internet spaceship game you see."
"how about.. make ecm point based :da very quick and light example.ship a has 15 sensor strength,ship b can jam a total of 16 points.ship a becomes jammed aslong as ship b is jamming him.ecm racial jamming strength gets increased but with longer cycle time and cap usage, range stays the same.multispec strength is reduced, but a faster cycle time, shorter range and increased cap usage.eccm remains the same.idea being that an ecm ship can perma jam any un-prepared ship. eccm becomes a strong defence.as the ecm ship uses more jammers, it runs out of cap quicker. the pilot spends more time managing modules than praying for good luck.longer cycle times make it harder to cycle jam multiple ships aswell as capacitor pressure.discuss/troll/whine."
"thats how it used to work in the past, back then everyone fitted jammers. in spare mid slots."
"thats why i suggested it.now if everyone fits ecm in the spare mids, people will have to co-ordinate jamming. just like the other party would have to co-ordinate projected eccm.the end of the day.. itll only affect small gangs and \"solo\" pvp anyway. doesnt everyone hate the idea of winning or losing based on how lucky you get with ecm?remove chance and make it more skill based.. just like the rest of the game (except invention).or ill happily settle for a chance based sensor damp that has the chance to reduce target range and scan res by 100%or a target painter that has the chance to increase sig radius of any ship to the size of a titan.or a tracking disruptor that will possibly reduce tracking to 0.i think thatll be fair.*insert better skills give better chance whine here*"
"if you were perma jammed in double eccm'd bs's (4 of you) i want to see killmails to see exactly what situation you got into. otherwise it didn't happen.there is absolutly nothing wrong with ecm or eccm at the minute. what does suck is the pathetic bonus the other t2 ewar boats get. primarily the sd and td bonuses. they need to be buffed.anyway, like i said, link the killmails or it didn't happen."
"fix please !"
"i propose that the money that is lost due to plex's being destroyed in a ship loss be used for map pack expansions for dust 514 when it comes out.these are exciting times for us eve players and this would enrich it further."
"how about they just fix eve and maintain it properly, improving the miserable ui, pos interface, corp/alliance interface, useless ships, etc., and they can spend incinerated plex money on coke and hookers?"
"eve is fine. me along with countless others would like to see dust 514 come out with strong selection of maps and have continous free map pack updates."
"it is impossible to secure an industry corp correctly.the ability to invite new people and get them to work on locked blueprints is not functioning as they have the ability to shutdown the corp.the settings are hacks to make corp production work while not locking up individuals slots.it's a dirty hack in the original code that needs to be replaced with a proper feature."
"i fully support. corp-related issues are long overdue."
"i think it's fair to say that not just roles need to be looked at - many things about corporations in eve need to be examined and revised (cost and mechanics of wardecs, poses, etc). however, this is a succinct analysis of changes to the roles system, and so i support this."
"i guess this will be a surprise for us in like 3 years right....right?"
"so you are in this ship, it could be heavy interdictor but doesnt have to be, and you active the dimension anchor module. it creates this bubble that makes all those within it unable to move in the up-down axis/dimension; typically considered the z axis.technically speaking in the engine it should be easy check/limit to implement.how is it useful?lets say i have my gang setup to engage about 30km-40km optimal. so i place them above or below the gate. then with the dimension anchor bubble in place the gang cant mwd up or down to us to kill us for the moment; giving us the advantage. furthermore, if they dont spawn on the proper 2d plane for the gate. they also cant gun it back to the gate.generally speaking that boy on the gate will be a throw away ship. they will certainly want him dead as fast as possible. which any gang that jumps through ought to be able to do the job."
"signed*waves @ doobs*"
"a corporation should be given the ability to better defend itself against theft."
"that would teach people to put back the bloody guardians."
"go back to highsec and noob it up there, because you obviously have no concept of what kind of \"trade\" and resource movement occurs, just because you don't personally see it...."
"what you're proposing is nonsense. let me elaborate:1) redistributing high end resources will encourage trade - false. it will do the opposite. if i have a monopoly on resource x, i'm not going to trade with my neighbour, i'm going to stockpile it and watch the price rise sky high, then i'm gonna go to jita and make a killing. every other person such as myself will do the same thing. so basically everything ends up in jita at astronomical prices. distributing things more evenly is what encourages more local trade because the profit difference between jita & local price is smaller, encouraging more local selling due to costs/risks of hauling to jita.2) redistribution will encourage more combat/expansion - false. as has been mentioned, there are already enough reasons to invade other people's space. more importantly, no good alliance will go out and start taking tons of space just to gobble up these resources. that would be stupid, because you won't be able to defend all your holdings appropriately. likewise, no small/new alliance is going to suddenly come up with a huge supercap fleet and go out and take high end stuff away from established alliances.so basically if the changes you propose were made, the status quo in 0.0 would be relatively maintained, and everyone would just pay higher prices for certain things."
"******ed post is ******ed as for:in other words what you imply is that every other person in eve thinks exactly like you and will rather sit on their hands watching their neighbour harvest pretty ressource x aslong as they want just so they can buy it in jita? well i highly doubt that.if its distributed evenly who needs trade? you dont have to talk to your neighbour about sh*t because he can harvest the same stuff and wont ever look at you. he will even have far more possibilitys to get it cheaper on the market and dont care at all about what you think or do. local selling will always be the same and in more cases be done by people that fear risk of transport in 0.0. and guess what? exactly. more people fear risk as more pricey a product a is.than why do we see so few campaigns? see it as it is. with the new sovereign mechanics it doesnt really matter which kind of claimable 0.0 space you hold. right now space has more show off and sentimental (as insmother to ra) value rathe than making any difference between spaceholder.you mean like ra did with pure blind some time ago stil being based in insmother? or atlas going to geminate to take the technethium moons? yeah sure your right, please move along.with the new timer system where you are encouraged to show up only once in 4 cycles a dedicated defender could indeed defend that in my oppinion. its rather the leaking motivation of people to leave their home to go x jumps away which makes such things seem impossible.and that is the mainproblem in eve. new alliances that acctualy have some issues with refunding a capital fleet on a daily basis get their capital ship blasted with the single click of a button in mass. sure a cap fleet battle of 50 vs 100 dreads wouldnt be much different but the chances to take something down with you are given unlike now. its just not worth to try if you cant even cripple your enemy a bit even when you try and loose a lot.in empire maybe. in 0.0 it could acctualy make things move if you see that a few systems in the neighbouring region that are quiet close to you would have a certain ressource that has high value. right now we have too much equality, may it be minerals being the same everywhere or a high amount of any moon mineral + alchemy."
"i can understand what the op is saying, but i think it would be a nightmare for the impact of alliance control, and dominance in the regions. however, i think this concept could be applied to high-sec regions.why the gallente offer blueprints for amarr towers, i'll never know. this should be fixed, but this is a small fraction of what is overall a bad proposal.not supported."
"i think dessies are supposed to be used as alpha machines used in wolfpacks.in that role, thrashers are clearly the omgwtfpwnmobiles of destroyers.they have massive alpha due to artillery boost, and their scan resolution is superior to any other destroyer. (note that you can get nearly as good alpha out of an artillery catalyst (god forbid!), and an artillery coercer, but the thrasher will always get the first shot, and it can fit a point too.)edit: (near) maximum alpha schedule for 280mm howitzer artillery ii-fit destroyers. cormorant 1291catalyst 1695coercer 1743thrasher 1854"
"yeah, it's kind of silly to boost them more when thrashers already excel too much in their frig killing role, and in large groups are such high-powered, cheap alpha that they already win the isk war versus almost any target even if destroyed."
"well, what about all others??"
"errr...have you seen what neutralizers can do to a gallente or amarr battleship (or any other cap intensive ship for that matter)? tracking disruptors are also pretty bad for turret ships of all types as well. moreover, target painters are good for what they do (making ships \"bigger\") and webs work on almost any ship (frigates especially).not supported."
"first off -c a l d a r ilearn to spell before you insult the caldari pilots and there shiny ravens *wink/nudge nudge*secondly - don't drink and post.because its quite painfully obvious you don't know what your talking about.every single ship in this game has the same possibilities of getting ewar'ed as anyone else (except those that have immunity and even then that depends on your definition of ewar).and that has its own slew of skills to change the game overall.and naturally each race has a weakness that can be preyed upon.you obviously do not know them... or your just rage posting over a falcon."
"how is that relevant to my proposal?obviously you can neut or sensor damp a marauder, but i am talking about it's exceptional vulnerability to jamming compared to other ships of the same class. i will explain again: marauders have lowered sensor strength compared to other battleships, that makes them more vulnerable to caldary e-war then normal battleships. why do only caldari get the privilege of being exceptionally effective against them? why are marauders only made vulnerable to caldary? what is this some sort of racism? falcon can reach jamming strength of 15, so it permajamms kronos with a single (!) jammer.can a curse permanently cap out kronos with a single neut to the point where it cannot shoot? i don't think so. neuts do work against marauders, but only to the same extend that they work against all battlships, caldary for soem reason get the luxury of decreased sensor strength.i am not talking about any race, i am talking about a class of ships, maraders, all of them. again, how is that relevant to my post?"
"i'm fairly sure the reason why marauders get very low sensor strength, is that the ss is tied to probing mechanics. giving them a low strength means that they are easily probable and very hard to make un-probable with eccm boosting methods.the caldari ew is just a side effect."
"i was attempting to make a semi-humorous jab about how neutralizers seem to be unfair (or as you put it, \"racist\") against cap intensive ships (i.e. amarr and gallente). actually, yes. it can.ffs... caldari. every time you put a \"y\" at the end my eyes blear up and my inner spelling **** screams at 130 decibels.but back on topic; i believe that it has something to do with the fact that ecm is the only form of e-war that is chance based. that and marauders are awesome ships and need some sort of drawback to not be \"too awesome.\""
"marauders have low sensor strength to keep them from being used in pvp (unless you sacrifice a slot for eccm)."
"well, why is it that only the caldary can make use of this drawback? why not make them weak to sensor dampeners? caldary ecm is already good, not like it needs more buffing by giving ships low sensor strength."
"good idea! i want infested dominix like a pet"
"great idea!"
"confirming that if i have aggression, i want to undock as quickly as possible and i'm absolutely sure of it."
"holy mother of edit, batman!oh, yes, and +please visit your user settings to re-enable images.."
"please, must add more care-bares to my kill board"
"that"
"omg!!! ccp put a hit out on her and she's had to go underground! she's currently co-habitating with militant kangaroos that have set up camp in the hills of appalachia!!"
"read a few of these posts and some of the ideas are good others not so. forcing people through low-sec would more than likely make people quit lol. reading these got me into thinking, what if the security status of a system could be changed through player interaction? the highest you could bring a low sec system to would be a 0.5 and in doing so maybe bring in a small amount of navy support for the faction in control. i guess it would be similar to the way they have the fw thing setup, but some how working in a way to allow the systems security to change depending on players actions within the system. also making a few pirate type missions available in the system to allow the sec status to be dropped. pirates/players taking out the npc security would drop the security status while mission runners doing mission would increase the security status of a system.these are just a few things that popped into my head while reading these posts. maybe these could help spark more ideas."
"pretty sure i saw a page two, strange"
"supported"
"supported"
"hell yeah!"
"how can this not be supported."
"these changes should be made, the service these guys are doing is outstanding"
"bump because those are all reasonable suggestions that deserve to make it ingame."
"yes, and titans too please."
"supporting in case i haven't already."
"i completely agree with all proposals.congratulations for your post.ccp, please do something useful for the gui.also please, i would like to right click a faction item and select \"show public contracts of this item type\", on all regions please. or something like that. so many ppl do this manually."
"for every input box that is an isk amount for something, please add the commas separating thousands as the amount is typed. this is very annoying when setting up trade orders and having to tab out of the field to see that i have put in 19999999 when i intended to put in 1999999, and then tab back in to fix the amount."
"khorkrak,9,13,14,15,19,23,27,31,39,40,48,53,66,100,102,112,124,168,126,103"
"hey, probably a bit late and i will send an ingame mail to you as well, but following 2 sound items are outdated :"
"nice list of alts there trebor. our dear csm rep hard at work farming intel for nefarious purposes."
"laxyr,1,3,14,19,41,42,167,166,153,151,136,120,108,106,79,69,45,132,131,144"
"vonlutt 66, 75, 104, 108, 113, 131, 133, 138, 151, 157, 164, 14, 15, 50, 54, 61, 152the other 3 can go to fixing lag."
"i have updated the wiki page with the final results.it gives details on the filtering process that csm used to winnow down the list.enjoy!"
"say what?please tell, what did you use as comparison? mining is less clicking, farming datacores surely is. i'd wager that even running missions requires less clicks than pi."
"+1 for support-1 for carpal tunnel syndrome"
"i would have typed this in myself and shown my support but i had to have my friend do it for me since i can't move my hand after all of that 'clicking'!!"
"answer: fw missions, sisters of eve missions in aeschee, l5 missions in various systems (aeschee included: see fio station).here's the thing: look up any 0.0 system and then look up the caldari-gallente fw map on evemaps.dotlan.net. this low sec is way, way more active than null sec. it's just that everything in eve is less active than empire space because people use their alts to make isk (risk free) while they are playing in low/null sec, or they are carebears anyways and nothing you do will get them to enter low sec.you could have started this thread about making non-sov 0.0 more active. syndicate (a region crying for some organized crime immersion) is dead for the most part as are other non-sov 0.0 (outer ring anybody?)that said, anything to add richness to low sec is a good thing even if it doesn't bring more people there."
"/signed"
"t'amber told me to do it"
"this day in eve most people don't use active personal repairers because the cap usage is just too high. because everyone and their dog uses at least one neut now, active tanks (even support ones, for example one armor repairer on a buffer tanked ship) don't work at all.please consider reducing the capacitor usage of personal repair systems.to balance things out with the whole \"missions would be too easy\" deal, a few choices would be to increase the capacitor usage of repair systems in dead-space, or to simply make the mission npcs hit harder.another idea would be to double their duration but double the amount they repair to reduce the amount of time you need to be feeding the module cap.another idea would be to increase the base capacitor recharge of ships. (this would be more of a neut gimp however)this includes both armor and shields!i'm trying to make it clear that remote repair/shield transfer systems are not part of my topic.edit: since the trolls have left 4chan, let me make it clear that i am not trying to gimp neuts, mainly because i fly the curse most of the time. what i am saying is that it's way too easy to keep someone below the amount needed to make one rep cycle."
"tl;drdouble duration double repair amount of armor repair/shield boost systems.orhalf capacitor consumption of repair systems, increase mission damage output.supporting my own thread!"
"ah, another teary neut victim...so, instead of a stealth neut gimp, while breaking pve in the process, why don't you just suggest an outright neut gimp."
"so, kinda like this?"
"active tanking is pretty much obsolete in pvp, and this could be one possible measure to help remedy that. as you said though, it would have knock-on effects on missioning and i'm not sure either of your proposed fixes would work."
"signed!"
"signed"
"lol perfect"
"how about minmatar \"duct-tape armor maintenance drones\"...the graphics are a flying roll of dict-tape unrolling as it orbits the ship?"
"fixed that for ya. =p"
"highsec missions pay out too much. add some risk to them.you'll still take a sec hit and have gcc (and thus will get concorded if you warp to a grid with a space station, gate, planet, moon, etc.) but no longer can isk farmers grind isk as if eve were a single-player grind-mmo."
"gtfo"
"every time you post a new thread i think \"this has to be it, the bottom of the barrel, nothing could be worse than this.\"and then you post a new thread and prove me wrong.thank you for continuing to provide me with both lulz and an ever deepening understanding of just how stupid one human being can be."
"qft"
"good idea"
"there is something really annoying in jukebox.eve should save jukebox status for each client separately.lets say you have 2 accounts.the first one should play eve music. the second should not.if you log in and log out of the first account, it doesn't matter what was the config for the second account; when you log in to the second account, music will be played. because the last active account was playing music. thats a kind of bug, or lack of feature."
"thumbs down, use the money to fix the game oh wait that would require competence. might as well just spend it on making fanfests better or whatever instead then, use it to improve some aspect of eve not anywhere else. or i guess just spend it all on icelandic liquor and wake up a week later to find out that capitals were accidentally allowed in highsec and concord went on strike or something. that would be awesome too."
"not supported, because it's stupid.also, i want to point out that if this does happen, you're all going to ***** and moan about which charity it is."
"no, ccp keep the money. fix the damn lag with it and the bugs!be a great motto, everytime you pop a plex, we kill a bug."
"oh hahahahahaha you guys.... you think ccp is going to donate the tens of thousands of dollars they are making of plex's that will be killed this year alone??you are out of your mind."
"yes please.that would remove all ethical implications of ccp profiteering, and benefit society."
"/supported"
"every time any in game isk is destroyed, ccp should - no must - donate to some charity. obviously every isk sink benefits ccp by removing value that we have worked hard for (or bought via gtc) from the game.its only right. and the charities deserve it. (for those who say \"no\" - you would deny money to hungry children? shame on you!)"
"yes please."
"i give support to this...."
"i fully support this since i find it logical. each time a plex card is destroyed in the game, ccp automatically wins $17.50. while i do not say ccp must donate the whole amount, i say a part of it should be donated to different charities.and as proof:"
"how is ccp profiteering? people are simply being morons. there is nothing unethical about giving people the opportunity to undock with plex. they aren't making you undock with 74 plex, they aren't making pirates shoot them, and plex have the same drop rate as every other item in eve. nothing to see here, move along.yes. i would. because i am a cold hearted bastard and support ccp in it's moron profiteering. ok, so maybe i am a cold hearted bastard, but that's beside the point.i think that every time a titan is destroyed, ccp should give $3500 to a charity. wait what? that doesn't make sense... and neither does giving money to charity when a plex dies.htfupage 3 snipe"
"i give full support to this idea. just tonight i was made aware of some poor soul who lost 74 plex cards, destroyed. that's $1,000.00 us ccp pockets.... for nothing. this isn't to say that ccp is ebil, they're not profiteering, but since that is pure profit it would be nice to see a % go to a world relief agency. only for ones destroyed though as ones not still have their value in game time.great idea by the op."
"ccp, i wholeheartedly support this idea, and would even like to recommend, as suggested via an earlier voice chat with an alliance-mate, child's play as the most apropos charity to donate to./signed, blogged, tweeted"
"why support stupidity? are you all that dumb that you can't make a jita-alt and \"redeem\" the plexs on that alt and sell them; then transfer the isk to your main?i mean, really...what possible reason could you have to transport plexs. plexs are roughly 300 -315million (some willing to pay 330mill) so it's not like you're 'buying low; selling high'.treat plexs like a titan; you don't build a titan to sell...you build it for yourself or for the corp.in closing: don't be stupid"
"news flash: people are stupid.i think a lot of the people supporting this idea think that perhaps, just perhaps, there should be some good to come of inevitable stupidity."
"/signedalso tweeted, irc'd, and ingame'd."
"supported!"
"while i fully understand why people would prefer ccp to improve the game itself with that money, i support this idea as im a nice guy and doubt that ccp could hire even one more dev from it anyways. afterall its not a very reliable income."
"that your excuse for not donating?supported."
"supported. child's play is the way to go."
"signed"
"i like this idea."
"/signed"
"supporting this if it is a percentage of the profit from destroyed plexes.rest of profit should go to fixing the lag (moar blades!)"
"/signed"
"very good"
"i suppawt zis"
"why not have ccp donate the $ equivalent for all titans killed in the game too?why not right? thats only fair!theres starving kids in africa i mean jesus made wine from water"
"/supportedkudos to the op."
"this is a great idea. i support this fully. it woulda) make the world a little betterb) make people feel less bad about losing money/gametime they had already paid forc) make the pirate's pain a little less painfull when those 74 plex in his victim's ship go poofd) would be great publicity for ccp*thumbs up.* translation: \"would make ccp look less like a bunch of greedy bastards not giving a rat's ass\""
"support"
"not supportedare you ppl daft?ccp has a set \"goal\" of money theyre trying to make- they do not exist to fund charities.they are a for profit business.you want to waste your own money on these scams (ie charities) then feel free to donate directly to them. dont raise my monthly subscription fee so you can feel better about your pathetic wasted lives."
"oh my god. a for profit corporation, profiteering!!?!!?? damn what will they think of next? ccp's change to the plex system, like most good changes, forces absolutely no change whatsoever. if people wanted to, they could treat the new one exactly like the old one and never move plex, and thus none would ever be destroyed, just like before. if pilots choose to be stupid with them, well that's their call, same as if they are stupid with an expensive ship or deadspace/officer mod or whatever. there is zero difference, that's the entire point of the change after all, to make them items just like everything else!this is a stupid thread. there are tiny amounts of money involved, and ccp should focus first and foremost on us, the customers paying for eve! if at some point in the far future ccp has actually fixed most of the vast number of glaring problems in this game then sure, with the huge excess might make sense to offer a few targeted charity programs, maybe as part of competitions with the winners able to decide which charity(s) get the donations. as some basic policy thing though? dumb. particularly since we can't agree on which charities to go for anyway (i think the eff would be a much better cause, for example, and would have more of a direct benefit to the game and all of us personally).there are no \"ethical implications\" here at all. ccp's benefit to society is already clear: they make eve, employ lots of people, etc. that's capitalism at its best. they don't generate tons of externalities like some other industries, an mmog provider is about as clean as it gets.unlimited thumbs down works."
"yes"
"destroyed plexes for the red cross?i like it."
"as much as i think this is a good idea, i can't support it.plain and simple, there are alternative ways to afford plex (aka: isk). i sit in a system and rat for countless hours and buy plex from the isk i make, no real-world transaction done on my part. the person who originally bought the plex has already been paid in full for it (through ingame exchange). any loss of the plex after that point is due to the purchaser's own stupidity and does not necessitate an actual real-world monentary loss.i do like the idea of a constantly-running plex for haiti like system, but otherwise its just darwin's law being played out with internet pixels."
"not a fan of the red cross but i like the idea. maybe give charity to an organization without such a tainted record?"
"signed"
"i approve of this idea."
"not sure if its very practical but hey ill support anything that encourages spreading the love"
"as nice as gratuitous acts of altruism are, ccp need these funds to hire staff, improve the game and continue to provide the great service they always have. i for one feel that ccp should maintain the right to contribute to charities as they see fit, rather than have it imposed on them by a vocal minority of the player base, who could do more themselves rather than force proxy charity in my humble opinion.tl;drfix lag plz."
"i endorse this here idea"
"best. idea. evar."
"supported."
"i support this idea.my corp might be jerks in-game, but the real-life always needs more charity."
"look at all these bleeding hearts. as with most liberal/progressive ideas it's ****ing terrible.if you want to donate to charity or write a check to the government around tax time go ahead, no ones stopping you, but don't try and tell a company what they should do with their money."
"actually the only people i feel sorry for are the two pilots who got totally screwed by a terrible drop."
"excellent idea. in mulling around the implications of plex destruction, i really only see one big problem with it. in the past, every $15 plex eventually (at least potentially) gets redeemed into 30 days of game time. it may trade hands for lots of isk but sooner or later someone uses it for game time. ccp sells 30 days of access for a certain amount of cash. how that 30 days moves around the community is not there concern. of course someone might sit on that plex or even forget they have it but it is always there. it is always a 30 day access potential.now, we have the case of plex being destroyed. not a big deal from a game play perspective but from an outside observer, the $15 can be pocketed by ccp but now they never have to provide the service, the 30 days, that it represented. no just sitting there and wondering if they will ever use it. it is now gone and can be closed out in accounting terms. i know that some retailers have run foul of state laws regarding gift cards that never get redeemed. i worked for a retailer in it during the time that they implemented gift cards and they originally wanted the cards to expire after a year. it bugs accountant to leave liabilities like this just hanging around. that idea got squashed by some of the states that the retailer did business in. i don't know what the current rules and laws are, this was over a decade ago. but i can imagine that this will represent a breach of contract somewhere. even if it all turns out to be legal everywhere, which seems unlikely, at the very least it has the potential to be less than popular from a pr perspective. and if ever you have a ccp employee simply playing the game on a regular alt, even during there own freetime, and they make a kill that ends with destroyed plex, you could have a very, very messy legal or accounting audit for they potential conflict of interest that it represents. however, taking the cash value of these plexs and donating it to an international and well respected charity like red cross could first probably be more easily worked into the eula, second it removes the conflict of interest as ccp never gets the cash for a service not rendered and third it would create very positive publicity. and it should really be the full price of the plex. ccp still gets a little cash from the gtc/plex transaction fee so they are not out the cost of handling the transactions.besides, how cool would it be to descend on some ****** with bloodthirsty fury and have it result in cash being sent to save people's lives.\"why, why you @#%^*!\"\"why? it was for the childwen! bwahahahaha!\"oh the delicious irony.so thumbs up for this one. stellar idea. (pun fully intended.)"
"i support this but really the only change they need to make is make a plex indestructible..the guy above me i totally agree with, the fact that a ccp employee could willfully go in game declare war on people who are to knowing transport plexes (information which they can obtain) and kill every single one of them within real game mechanics with no \"god\" mode or anything they just know. is one legal nightmare i would have though ccp would want to avoid.simply making plexes not be able to be destroyed is the solution. allow people to transport them sure, if someone kills the ship and it drops an indestructible can with plexes in it then that's the transports loss still. unless he has a buddy right there. it still adds in the joy of killing or even suicide ganking someone for the sweet juicy plex reward. the only difference is that game time can still be honored.i've heard lots of people talk about and try to justify what it means when a plex is destroyed. to me it's a quick buck ccp has made at mechanics they implemented. it just seems... shady to me.if they don't want to give money as a donation (which they should get tax breaks for so it's not all loss to ccp) then make the plex unable to be destroyed anywhere for any reason. in a ship it drops a can, separate from the wreck, one that can't be targeted or one that has like 1 million hp or something. it's as simple as that."
"lets not do that.but lets do what topic sez"
"fantastic idea, but i think ccp already use that 1300. why give to charity that money when they can use to buy 1300 beer ( 1 beer = 0.90 ) in spain100% sure"
"oh my. i just realized what the real problem is with this. what ccp really will be accused of. not that it has any basis in fact but that won't matter to a taxing authority or a small army of blood thirsty class action lawyers. the problem is not with the possibility of a ccp employee flying around and ganking plex haulers. i was asking myself, as many others have, who could possibly be stupid enough to buy that much plex, actually have that much isk and be stupid enough to haul it. this person was ganked in jita. they didn't even get out of the system that they likely bought it all in before they got scanned down and ****d. why would anyone do that?that is really the question that is going to plague ccp. why indeed, will ask the lawyer. who would have the most interest and motivation to fill a transport with that much game time? that could be destroyed? there isn't a pirate out there that wouldn't suicide gank his own grandmother for the chance at 1 plex let alone 74. but who would take the chance at putting them in space in the first place. the problem here for ccp is not if they did such a thing. i don't think they would, too stupid. but the problem is that, that fact will not stop the lawyers from filing suit every time a plex goes up in flames. this is the real reason that ccp has to remove their own conflict of interest from the destruction of plex. either it is made non-transportable again, indestructible, or the value of the destroyed plex gets gets donated so it never sees their bottom line."
"meh, why not"
"you do realise that this would not hirt macroes in the slightest, as adding >launch dronesminemineminemine zzzzzmine some morerecall dornes warpis not very difficult. what they are gonna do, is cause trouble for t1 mining barges. so make them weak, you would have to tank a t1 mining, barge, but would not have tot tank a hulk to kill them.they should be somehting like battleships in low-sec -not very common, but they happen.only the weakest crusiers please."
"supported!"
"supported , might even make high sec rat hunting interesting for newbies (tho that might not be the point but still)"
"my idea is basically allowing a person to use a plex as payment to transfer a character should that need ever arise. supporting my own idea."
"supported. also for character portrait transfers."
"simple, makes sence"
"i agree."
"i was on the point of posting a similar proposal. makes a lot of sense to use plex as a \"standard admin token\" for character transfer or a new portrait"
"should also make extra money to ccp: a plex is $30, char transfer is $20. but i am sure there are people who would for various reasons rather give 300misk for the transfer. this would also leave the option of paying for the transfer by the buyer."
"1.0"
"i would love to see any advertising related to eve like quafe etc even eon and eve shop and advertisement for corps like 'apply now cause were so awesome' or 'buy cheap bpcs right around the corner in our bpc shop' but hell no i never ever want to see stuff not related to ccp advertised in eve other ccp games would be ok with me but not more.eve has around 300k subscribers (at least thats the number i have in my head i'm sorry if i'm wrong) and each of them pays around 15$ a month that sums up to 4'500'000$ if thats not enough to pay everything...."
"lol, you realise that the only ship with bigger cap issues then the rokh is your laserboat -without- the cap usage bonus, hybrids have fairly sizable cap issues, worse then the apoc easy and competing with the baddon, though not surpassing it. megathron's a favorite of pilots that have trained gallente and want in a fleet, nothing more, if you compare kill mails in fleet combat from a year or two ago you can see the massive shift towards the apoc. please try and fly some of the hybrid ships out there before telling us there's no cap issues with it."
"i amy flying a rokh, and i confirm that it's cap suckson a more serious note, you are right, and blasters do need more damge, and tracking, so they can apply that damage."
"in an effort to diversify the racial supercarriers from each other, what if their remote ecm burst was split into different e-war types for each supercarrier?wyvern - remote ecm burst (as currently)aeon - remote energy neutralisation burstnyx - remote warp scrambling burst(this would be an aoe warp scrambler with a persistent effect similar to a distor bubble, but unlike a warp disrupt probe or heavy dictor bubble it would not tackle supercaps since that would make the nyx massively powerful against such targets)hel - tbc(the obvious suggestion would be a remote target painting burst or aoe webifier, but neither of those seem quite as powerful as the other options so open to further suggestions)strengths, burst radii, ranges and durations could all vary between the ships for balance purposes, if required."
"there is no doubt that the ecm burst must be changed. i think just changing it from a burst to an actual ecm jam (that is based on the racials, ie gravimetric, ladar, radar, etc) would fix it."
"i think remote ecm burst is mostly used to gtfo in your mothership. so basically you nerf all other 3 motherships."
"this would make scanning a much better experience, 100% supported"
"aye"
"why have a map pack when dust players should be fighting on player created pi installations.reading in to this fact one would have to assume that the maps would be generated based on the items in a pi complex, the planet type and possibly a randomly generated terrain landscape.ideally if pi is developed properly then hopefully it will be the eve players actually designing the maps through more interactive pi setups and layouts."
"i don't have any active tcus to mess with this, but according to evelopedia, tcus are already handled under config starbase equipment, and station manager roles only apply to actual outposts. if you're already trusting someone with the ability to take away sov or rip down your towers, then trusting them to set docking fees and reinforce timers seems minimal. confirming that if this ever happens, it will be a surprise."
"proposing a system where players can help noobs for a bonus (training time/isk/etc). take a char from an account less than a few month old to tag along in missions with rewards shared, or roaming/camp and included in killmails, for a small sp training time bonus, or other appropriate reward. a penalty for noob kill (only while in highsec, or rookie ship elsewhere) may also help. it would help grow eve subscription base a lot. a few months later, when account's bonus period ran out and everyone became decidedly less friendly, the ex-noob would have invested too much in the mmorpg to cancel on a whim. they would also have enough sp to stay in the player corp that invited them in initially for the incentive. community also keeps them from leaving.it would benefit everyone. noobs get helped, and initiated into part of corps/active community. those who help get an incentive. pirates get real carebears to gank, as opposed to rookie ship kills (stumping out seedlings before they grew)."
"people would just use it to cut the training time on their salvaging alts rather than helping genuine newbies."
"propose a complete system so that we cann see all the pros and cons of it. while i agree that alot of eve's game mecanic is counter-intuitive, and tutorials, while they did get beter, are still lacking, joining a good corp ususally colves those problems. i don't quite see what exactly you are proposing."
"what about a stasis webifier?"
"no offense, but this is just stupid."
"to allow us to change the our buyout price after we have created a contract.especially after people have bid on it. that is all."
"no, bidder get their isk stuck in a contract, any alteration to it that may affect its outcome without bidder's explicit consent is unacceptable."
"signed"
"would you mind to elaborate for me in how far it would change anything regarding the control of a region? you stil use the same ships to shoot, the same installations to hold space and have the same timer to overcome to take systemcontrol.maybe i am not imaginative enough to follow your thoughts, but if you mean that conflict would be iminent than its a damn good addition to 0.0.as for highsec, yes i think highsec needs an overhaul to in the industrial factor, but seeding certain tradegoods for \"special\" purposes should be limited to 0.0, because else the inflation will be far too high on such goods and most people like plamya would simply sit back and do nothing while waiting for things to reach a more or less reasonable price once transported to jita."
"thats so true. stuff is always sold / bough from jita. that sucks hard in this game.why do the taxes do not increase depending on the station usage? or maybe some stations could lower or rise their taxes depending on the stuff being sold. this would create more trade hubs around."
"^this1/3 of t2 ship cost in eve is not far off. if you make it so that a certain group is swimming in so much isk that it's impossible to take territory from them, the game will get more stagnant. what you're suggesting is already in eve, and the results can be seen. change is needed, but in the opposite direction. your suggestion will just make things more stagnant. not supported."
"not this, because you fail to realise that inthebutt was taking it as acctualy ore as we have which is not the case. also note that it was described as very region based, so aslong as you spread enough minerals arround and among the reasons supply will also be held low but not make it unreasonable to ever create or total abandon slow inflation which will be needed to bring the price down.as for...maybe it is maybe it is not, but you also have to note that a lot of the oldest player are in such major alliances which have large funds and continuesly also buy t2 bpo with them decreasing the price further. sure it dont reaches the output of invention but that 90% of the tech moons are to be held by 1 group is also the players fault. even through ccp with their moon update well...it was never suggested to have it as huge isk surge but rather a reason for people to acctualy compete over ressources. but not over a single one but rather certain kinds of ressources that are distributed through alliance territorys and also require more politics. (which can be quiet frustrating in eve)regarding the \"if....stagnant part.\" isnt anything that could make the large blocks compete even over single systems worth the implementation? right now everyone just sits there not doing anything because the sovereign mechanics favor the defender. but what if the attacker would be fine with just a few systems and not a complete steamroll?the attacker could inititate some kind of a \"blitzkrieg\" to snatch a system as fast as possible trying to rule as much chances as possible for the defender out which might escalate into a greater war just because this single system might spawn the rare ressource x in a monthly interval to be harvested.you clearly didnt read the op at all. there is not a single ressource in eve that is specialy based on a region. even rats/officers and their loot spawn in several regions under the same flag. if your point is moon minerals your also mistaken as there is a rather large number spread about several regions aswell as alchemy. (sure you can come again with your 90% argument but that has nothing to do with gamedesign but rather with successful alliance forming by players)please elaborate? opposite direction as in making stufff even more common? common enough that people never need to move out of empire? because all the stuff you can get in 0.0 is allready obtainable in every conquerable region apart from the regionbased factionloot so please tell.maybe super capitals?you can buy titans and motherships in the marketforum, they are quiet common now and also not limited to 0.0 anymore. i really dont see your point."
"in the main system on the test server, simply create a wormhole (maybe several) and make it stay there forever, so there is no mess with finding them, and no need for devs to find them and waste their time, like this:"
"at the moment it takes too many clicks to get to the right item in the contracts menu. proposal: when you right click on a dramiel (or any other faction item) there should be the option show contracts."
"ccp could you please look at the option of changing the way pos offensive/defensive modules are controlled.change it from the current system to something more like a ship. when taking control of the guns, your ships own weapons disappear(as now) but you are able to lock multiple targets and and direct fire at different ship much like you can in a ship. a scenario would be when the ships you are firing on suddenly receive lots of remote reps you could simply select another target, stop your gun firing and then open fire on the new target. due to the very slow lock time it makes it difficult to attack ships at the best of time let alone when they have lots of triage carriers in support. or potentially reduce lock time on manned modules. any views, opinions fellow pos gunners?"
"destroyers should currently be renamed to salvagers.ccp, please make them become real \"destroyers\".the hybrid bonus for the cormorant is specially weird."
"eve can always use new ships. i love the look of the primae, but sadly it just won't get the use it deserves as a one time only ship."
"no thanks."
"fix this ****.whenever i try to clone jump it takes like a minute of trying.clone jump... session change in progress...clone jump... session change in progress...on the 8th or 11th or whateverth try it will work.why is that?and isn't it embarassing that such a simple function works so poorly?"
"there's a 30 second session timer from the time you leave your ship until you can board another ship or perform a clone jump."
"hit esc -> \"general settings\" tab -> \"general\" box -> tick \"show session-change timer\"it will show you a little clock like thingie in the upper *left* corner. when it is gone after left your ship , you can clone jump.hth(edit: i should not post before tea)"
"thanks for the replieshad no idea"
"something has changed. it's now whoever does the most damage, not whoever lays the final blow. this was changed because ninjas were using high-volley ships to vulture killmails."
"look closely at their stats. while marauders have a slightly longer targeting range over their t1 variations they also have slightly less scan resolution. and the ~40% dampening effect that a basic t1 sensor dampener can bring to either range or resolution is nothing to sniff at.in a way, marauders are already weak against sensor damps."
"ccp: \"don't publish any details and never mention this again or we will go to court eva.\".eva:\"ffffffffffffffffffffffuuuuuuuuuuuuu\".not saying that is what happened but something like it is highly probable. imagine yourself in her situation, you technicaly breached the nda and you get canned but no further legal action is taken against you. wether it was a serious breach or just a minor one, i would prolly not mention it ever again and just go on with my life and not take the risk i angered the company...any other course of action would be plain stupid i would say as you have nothing to win and can only lose."
"that is a really big rubber duckie"
"possible, but by the same token if she wasn't nailed dead to rights we most likely would have seen some sort of argument/retraction/statement. a google search for \"eva jobse\" has several hits to stories about an alleged nda breach, and any employer she might have will probably google her if it's in the tech field. if she could've gotten a retraction/followup exonerating her, i'd wager she'd have done it."
"my guess is anybody would do that, hence she prolly couldn't get that."
"eve truly is the game that took griefing to a whole new level"
"too bad you did the math wrong in that suggestion, this would be much more suitable:increase the base attributes by 12 and increase the lowest number of attributes you can assign in a remap from 5 to 17. this will more or less compensate for the lack of the 10% boost provided by the learning skill.end result:min/maxed char without implants: 27/21 (2250sp/h) compared to 27.5/20.9 (2277sp/h).min/maxed char with +5 implants: 32/26 (2700sp/h) compared to 33/26.4 (2770sp/h).in other words we are talking about a max sp reduction of 613k sp/year for a +5 implant char and 236k sp/year for no implants. another thing to consider is that before the neural remaps the highest speed you could reach in game was 2739sp/h."
"hmm... i think you may be right. it's been a while since i've had to compute training speeds (for the evie tool i wrote a few years back).if someone can confirm mashie's numbers, i'll amend the proposal. and is there a way to get closer to the current numbers? i'm a bit of a sp-***** and don't want to gyp my +5 implant empire logistics alt..."
"ok, i just redid the the math slightly to make it even less of a sp drop compared to current levels:increase the base attributes by 12 so the lowest value in a remap is 17.keep the 15 distributable points but change the max assignable from 15 to 16.######## +5 clone with max/min attributes ########base distribute imps total12 16 5 3312 9 5 2612 5 5 2212 5 5 2212 5 5 22new max speed 33+26/2 = 2760 sp/hold max speed 33+26.4/2 = 2772 sp/heffective change -0.43% or -105120 sp/year. ######## empty clone with max/min attributes ########base distribute imps total12 16 0 2812 9 0 2112 5 0 1712 5 0 1712 5 0 17new max speed: 28+21/2 = 2310 sp/hold max speed: 27.5+20.9/2 = 2277 sp/heffective change +1.4% or +289080 sp/yearnow before everyone is going omg we lose speed with these attributes in +5 clones you have to remember that it is still 192720 sp/year faster than was possible before the neural remapping was introduced."
"lol"
"just bumping to ask: you really don't want to share that list?it seems strange that there are \"hard facts\" about the success of the csm and it is not made public despite people asking for it every now and then..."
"they are basically making **** up. they are getting all kinds of free perks and special privilages being in the csm. so the will dance their whole term not really producing anything. it's politics. this csm has accomplished nothing. just like the one before it, and the one before it, so on and so on. you get the idea."
"that's an index page - it doesn't need to be updated because it changes automatically as issues get recategorized.i actually did a pass at updating the issues in process list before i started the crowdsourced prioritization last week, and there's a few more items that need updating that i will try and get to later this week."
"if this is an accurate, up to date list, then it conflicts with dierdra vaal's statement that 18% or 33 proposals raised by csm 1&2 were completed by the end of csm 3. i had noticed that in previous csms issues/proposals rarely had their own wiki pages, is this part of the issue?"
"anyone else notice that ever since the csm have been weighing in to ccp on what should be what that the game has been slowing going to the dumps? it's like the more they get involved with thing the worse the outcome. they were heavily involved with dominion and look how great that worked out.csm, on behalf of the eve community, please stop meddling with our game. you are there to only make sure there is no more t20 incidents. not give us more broken sov mechanics and double click p.i. crap."
"i don't think you 'get' the csm."
"i can understand this if you don't follow what is going on with the csm through ignorance or misinformation, and for your sake, i'll believe the latter. let me therefore enlighten you about what the csm does and has done for the game.the reason the game has slowed down to a crawl can be viewed in the most recent csm/ccp meeting minutes. ccp has stated beyond the shadow of a doubt that, while they may pay some marginal attention to eve, they are instead focusing on dust and incarna until those are launched. their backlog is huge, even when i was in csm 2, and there is a lot on their plates.we are not there to ensure another t2o doesn't happen, as we have no control or administration of ccp. t2o caused the ia (internal affairs) department to come into being, and they're the ones that kicked larkonis trassler out immediately, and may have had something to do with ankhesentapemkah as well (we don't know due to lack of information).sov mechanics and pi are great examples of what seems to be ccp's trend since after apocrypha - great ideas with horrible implementation. i helped write a good bit for dominion, but i'm not sure how much of my document was written, and i can tell you that a lot of stuff was left out completely."
"you've been using tq to play starcraft haven't you? just admit it."
"correlation does not imply causation. post hoc and ****hoc are fallacies, not winning trains of thought."
"how about you just fix the lag instead of posting on the forums all day?"
"y'all capsuleers poastin' in a troll thread!"
"the csm is simultaneously being completely ignored by the devs and helping them to ruin eve.this stuff is confusing."
"hey,what if winning the alliance tournament could win major alliances a \"special\" npc interaction? storyline related evolution choices that could shape a little the eve universe?say an alliance is big enough it could be eligible if it won the tournament to help out some npc faction achieve some \"incredibily exciting and highly risk and remunerative\" operation similar to the ones happening between npc factions...dunno sounds fun and interactive.r"
"rp alliances generally would be the only people to really care about a prize of this nature, and those alliances are yet to win any tournament.the point of the tournament prizes is to entice major alliances to take part. imagine pandemic legion winning and being rewarded with \"some stupid roleplayer crap\" instead of just getting the valuable items that were up for grabs this year. would they and the other major competitors even bother coming back or spending countless hours working on setups next year?"
"thumbs up.current poses are old and ugly and old and ugly..make them less buggy, better looking, and add more usefulness to a high sec pos. (pi bonuses perhaps?? ooooooh now there's an idea.)"
"supported"
"junk floating in space looks like a space station should. nothing connected makes complete sense."
"argh :)i did say ships.. i agree"
"wish i had more thumbs to point up"
"1.0"
"/out of my permalurk to support basic common sense for bussines which want prosper in the long run"
"eve needs fixing.without eve they could not work on the other projects. we are funding them with our subs"
"quality > quantity. always. no matter what, where or who it takes for it."
"here is hoping someone at ccp with the power to refocus their priorties reads and understands this post."
"in my 24 years of experience in software development, i have noticed a few things...1) it is much easier to write new code than to fix old code. if one can find a software developer that can work with existing code, grab that sucker and hold on to them... they are a rare find. i usually see this as a good programmer that is flexible and without an ego... which is indeed a rare find.2) it has been shown that it may take from 4-10 times the resources to fix an issue after it has been released than if it were caught in the design phase. thus it is not cost effective from a management standpoint to fix things, but to just introduce new features. perhaps ccp is getting to a level of corporate mentality and maturity where the bottom line is much more important than customer satisfaction or even the product they produce itself... which eventually happens to the best of them, i guess.3) many software developers who have made a name for themselves do not want to fix code. all they want to do is make new systems and move on. thus, to keep some developers around, some companies must always have new projects... else these 'sacred cows' will leave to work somewhere else. i guess this is just the creative nature of these developers; and why some believe that software development is an art, not a science. fixing coding and design issues just is not fun and may eventually show that some of these developers are not wearing any clothoes.4) a company like ccp is made up of specialists. many of those positions are based on new development. so what happens to these people when one goes back to fix problems?... lay them off until they are needed again? to let someone go and rehire someone else is to not only lose expertise, but also to require a retraining period for the new person, which may take a very long time... something management does not want to hear.5) everything is not always what it seems. appearances are much more important than reality... and management has a great way of pretending that all is fine. in many ways, they have no choice, especially if the horses are already out of the barn and running everywhere.6) i try to remember, it is not 'what' people do that really matters, as much as to 'why' they do it. it would appear that ccp management has decided on new features, over fixing and finishing old ones because it is to their benefit to do so... at least in their eyes and in the short term. 'walking in stations' and dust 514 will bring two new types of customers into eve... thus translating into $$$$!!!!. fixing old issues for customers has never generated new revenue. so ccp management is obviously looking to expand its revenue rather than make old customers happy. so what if half of the old customer base leaves? the new customer base will make up for it. mangament problem solved! that is why most companies will treat their new customers much better than their old ones. it is all about 'new' business. old business is like... well... old.i think ccp is doing what is best for itself and it is up to us to either follow along like sheep or find something else. i believe ccp has done a great job overall in producing eve online. however, it is not always the 90% that works that is most visible... but the 10% that does not. in this case, that 10% is a 'deal breaker' for most of us... making the game unplayable for some of us.i have little hope that ccp will change its development approach. it is just not to its benefit to do so, at this time. until the bottomline starts to fail, will ccp change anything. with 'walking in stations' and dust 515 coming out, i do not see that happening soon. i also expect the csm to be disbanded as a failed experiment soon, as it did not support the objectives of ccp. oh well. perhaps all this too shall pass... we will see."
"one thing that really bothered me was when ccp said that it was making the csm a 'stakeholder' in the company [looks confused]. i have played eve online for over two years now... when the hell i have not been a stakeholder in eve online? i guess i have just gotten to an age where my time is worth more than money. not only have i invested money, but i have also invested a lot of my personal time here in eo. i can imagine how some that have invested their time from the eo beta and release must feel. if eve online goes away, all that personal time will be gone... there will be nothing left. so believe me, ccp... i am a stakeholder in eve online and what happens here has a direct effect on me personally.now i am also a realist and understand that eo will eventually go away. however, by the very nature of the game design, eo is a long term project type of endeavor. so do not tell me that i am not a stakeholder here. that is not something that ccp can bestow on anyone. it is what we as player/investors determine. ccp by rights may own eo and all aspects of it. but we as players morally own it too. if ccp management does not understand that, well... perhaps the end of eo has started to happen.perhaps what we as players are saying here is that we wish to have a sense of 'justice', and do not want to feel that our concerns and loyalities are being taken for granted. i just hope that ccp management is better at fixing customer relations than they are at fixing eo."
"supported"
"supported"
"supported."
"supported.and while your at it, change the graphical effects from capital ships jumping to the old effects of better. ("
"some other suggestions the op might want to add:f11 mini maploot n salvage ideaship velocity vectors"
"damn i missed this for some reason :("
"oh, based on a player suggestion i updated the page so it has a list of the raw, unfiltered results. #1 was, as you might expect, \"commit to excellence\""
"scan, move extractors, set routes, click \"reset extractors\", be done with it.ideally each simple route would take all the extractor's capacity to the single target storage (so i don't have to set the extraction amount, remember that number, then independently set the routing amount, but one step at a time :)"
"batch jobs = badotherwise i have to support this. i currently manage 18 planets, hoping to make it a full 25 within the next couple of weeks. just clicking the buttons for the extractors takes almost 30 minutes."
"support this. no need to make it -faster-, just make it less clicky."
"okay, look me up on battle clinic, what's that, i fly the curse 98% of the time?don't assume things. i want repair systems boosted not neuts gimped, neuts should still be able to disable repair systems but not with such ease."
"i read this before, and i really don't think the 2.5% boost is sufficient to make a real difference. when i'm fighting any active tank they usually get one or two cycles off before they can't keep up with the neuts anymore, even with cap boosters! it's just stupid that buffer tanks get so much advantage over active tanks."
"people don't use armor reps in pvp not because only because of cap, but primarily because it's ridiculously slow and wastes grid that would otherwise be used for mwd/ab. active shield can somewhat be used with a booster, if there's not too too much incoming dps.if you get called primary in a fleet however no active tank is going to save you, so it's best to just try to last as long as you can."
"first off: don't hesitate to report any non-constructive replies, it is actually against the forum rules but some people are unable to function properly in polite society.@op: what you and the linked csm proposal are suggesting would make triple repair myrmidons/hyperions and xl cyclone/sleipnir/claymore nigh unbeatable without staggering blobbing.for armour repairers all one needs do is make them more 'bursty' so that the actual repair doesn't take what is a lifetime when in a pickle to take effect .. increase cap consumption to balance.for shield booster there are several options; tweak fittings to allow oversizing on more ships, tweak boost amount or consumption and tweaking amplifiers. reducing cap use alone will not make local repair any better compared to now and making the active tank bonus even bigger will just break the ships that has it.not supported."
"it's quite ridiculous really.it's still referenced in the features page also. no expert on international law however isn't it illegal to market aspects of a product in promotional material that are known not to work?you would cut them some slack if it was the first week after dominion however this is how many months now?ignoring your clients on this issue over an extended period and (potentially)misleading new customers is not setting any benchmarks for first class service. is it?"
"yes! hell yes! i love that idea"
"i have no idea what your drift on this one, in any mission you have the risk to loose your ship if you don't tank it properly... what is it got to do with concord?!?!ohhh wait, i see your name and now understand its female logic talking... for us it means: \"dont try to understand the logic behind what i say, just do it\" well... no."
"lol, this'll happen."
"poor carebears...i support any idea that makes the game fun!"
"fyp. no charge."
"8/10 on this troll, because it hits close to home. you know a lot of eve players would love this because it would let them stick it to carebears, even if it would total the games economy. they could grief hisec for real!"
"i support this idea if it worked like this:select the first extractor and set it as normal. then, select a \"copy order\" button (or something to that effect) which lights up. you then single click on all the extractors you want on the same cycle which light up a little brighter. then you click the copy order button again and it goes through a 15-30 second routine as the extractors get set up. finally, you click the submit button and they are running.this way, it will take nearly the same amount of time to set the extractors, just greatly cuts down on the amount of double clicking."
"the time consumed by double-clicking extractors is a time wasted from all points of view.the player is basically fighting with the interface instead of fighting other players or npc (including all forms of \"fighting\" - direct engagements in space, spy games in chats, cent-wars in the market, etc). in addition, the player character is completely safe during this operation (either docked or cloaked) - there is zero possibility to lose isks or property while zombie-clicking extractors.in the end we have a great span of time when the real living person desperately imitates a bot or a script by clicking extractors as fast as possible and not interacting with other players at all.there are already two proposals that address this problem:the proposal for a new functionality added to the command centerthe proposal for extractor multiselectionanother approach would be to add a special planetary structure - a computation, control and coordination center (cccc) whose sole function will be to provide an ui to restart all inactive extractors in that particular colony. all inactive extractors will be reinstalled with the same cycle length (the cccc interface should provide an option to select the cycle length) and all extractors that were already active will not be affected and will continue with their personal cycle (which allows for combining manual management of some extractors and mass-management of others).the ultimate goal is the same as with other proposals - to reduce the time needed to resurvey and reinstall all extractors dramatically by providing a single command that will perform all that resurveing&installing under the hood.the \"roleplay\" part is that cccc consumes a lot of cpu (for example, 6000 or even more) to perform all calculations necessary to support a bunch of extractors and to control their operation. the price of building such a structure should be quite high too.pros:usually there is a lot of available cpu on the p0+p1 planets and only the pg presents a problem - adding a cpu-heavy structure will add a second dimension to the colony design.the existing structures (the command center in particular) are not changed.the most tedious part of the pi will be made less so (but that can be seen as cons by some).cons:the most tedious part of the pi will be made less so (but that can be seen as pros by some).the amount of the extracted materials per time unit is not changed. the need to manage other colony functions (importing, exporting, logistics) is not changed. the general pi mechanics are not changed. the only thing that changes is that players will have more time to interact with other players."
"isn't going to happen. lawyers are expensive, and the company is in iceland. no lawyers will take the case."
"supported. this might get rid of all the tinfoil hat people claiming ccp made plex like any other item simply for profit..."
"this is a thoroughly stupid idea. there is no difference in real-money value between a plex and anything else in the game. it's all in your head. first: it's not true that ccp do not have to \"honor 30 days of game time that was paid up front\". game time is no longer what they are selling. they are selling a plex in-game item, which may or may not be converted to game time, and may or may not be sold for isk. the idea that a plex have some sort of special real-world value that suddenly disappears when the plex is transformed into or example a ship (by selling it for game-money and buying the ship) is completely irrational. second: no plex is destroyed \"as a result of the new mechanics\". they are destroyed as a result of the player making the choice to remove them from the station and haul them around in space. the only thing that changed is that we were previously prevented from hauling plex and now we are not. but neither are we required to do so. plex are in-game items now. just like, for example, all the ships you guys lost in your failed attempt at destroying the nc. would you like to suggest that ccp give money to charity for those too?"
"i <3 this idea!"
"by which you meant terrible idea.maybe, unless someone let it sit in their inventory somewhere and quit the game, or kept it for other reasons, but whatever.no ccp doesn't. see, you have no grasp of facts already, right off the bat! ccp sells 60 day gtcs. that's it. players can directly use, sell, or giveaway gtcs. gtcs are \"indestructible\" in that they aren't game items at all.players may then choose to convert those gtcs into 30 day plex. or not. ccp has no say in the matter, makes no suggestions, or really anything else. they got their money already, they gave somebody the gtc, their role is done.so what? the exact same thing could be said of every single other item in the game. all of them are worth isk. \"potentially\" any of that isk could be used to buy game time. those items, some worth multiple times that of a plex which isn't worth much isk, get routinely destroyed and always have. so what?not applicable, a gtc is not a measure of general value. it isn't a gift card, ccp prohibits rmt. there's no possibility of ever getting any cash for it (legitimately). it's a token worth something in-game, and if you choose to destroy it that's your business.learn your facts. they didn't get ganked, they undocked with war targets right there. they got shot, by war targets, who didn't even know what they had in their cargo hold and in fact popped the wreck without checking (because hey, who would carry anything on a t1 frigate?).because they suck (or were drunk/high/tired/just made a mistake). welcome to eve. why would someone bring an orca out to a belt in nullsec and have it sitting there without eyes in the surrounding systems? why would someone think their golem could tank a full logi-backed hac gang and engage? etc etc. i chose those because i personally saw them (on the attacking side). every pvper out there will have their own stories of both epic fights but also hilariously dumb moves. people make mistakes. and eve, to an extent, allows that. if you want handholding online then go elsewhere. people have the right to make their choices here."
"this. people being generous with other peoples money is pretty disgusting tbh.not supported."
"supported. ccp will make an obscene profit off destroyed plex, either make then so they cannot be destroyed or donate the money from them to charity, either way or ccp is nothing but greedy capitalist pigs :p"
"no, by which i meant \"excellent idea\", thus my cleaver use of the phrase \"excellent idea.\" i must admit that i didn't anticipate this portion of what i wrote needing clarification. quite true, which is why i mentioned that someone may sit on the plex or forget they have it. the point is that while a plex may go unused it still represents a potential 30 day of game time redemption and therefore looms out there as a potential liability that ccp may some day, for all they know, have to redeem into game time.ahh, well yes and no. yes, ccp only sells game time in packages of 60 days, this much is true. to which i was not being so very precise in my phrasing. though truthfully they do sell 30 day of access for a certain amount of cash, you simply cannot get the 30 days alone but rather you must also get it with another 30 days as well. much like how hostess sell twinkies though you buy them in packages of two.the no comes in that ccp not only sells 60 day gtcs but they also sell plex directly into the game, with no need to first purchase a gtc."
"once again, strictly speaking, the discussion wasn't on gtc but rather plex and either way, both represent a very precise amount of value, a certain amount of game time which is regularly sold for a particular amount of money. all a gift card is, is a barcode or magnetic strip coded number that maps to an amount of in store credit, much as the gtc is only an alphanumeric code that maps to an amount or credit of the single product which is game time in eve. that gift cards can be redeemed for multiple items and gtc can be redeemed for only one item is, once again, immaterial. further, many if not most retailers will not give you cash back for the value of your gift card or any unspent portion of it if they have the ability to denominate cards in any value. normally the retailer will simply put your remaining value back on to another card. first, can you not get ganked by a war target? perhaps i don't know the finer meanings and proper usage of the word \"gank\" and its derivatives. though, since this is not the only game that uses the term i suspect there exists a bit of fluidity in how the word is used. i was using the term \"ganked\" in the sense that someone, presumably quite by surprise, got killed by someone else. that is to say, the victim, did not go looking for the fight but rather the aggressor brought it to them uninvited. to bad for the victim. he should have been more careful.second, that the aggressor didn't know what was in the victim's cargo is precisely what i was getting at. that the possibility is that the aggressor was not trying to destroy the timecards but rather that it all looks bad because it appears possible that the victim, in fact, was trying to put the plexs in to harms way. you yourself provide to more reasons why this all looks bad. why would the person fly with plex while in a corp that is wardec'd and why fly in such a small and vulnerable craft? again, i don't think for a minute that ccp did any of this purposefully but rather only that, from a pr perspective at the least, it makes them look bad or at worse, someone is trying to set them up.but, that other possibilities exist does not preclude the possibilities that i put forward. and it is precisely because the actions taken by the victim where stupid on so many levels that it somewhat supports the idea that something in their motivation was out of place. but you do make the fair point that the victim could have just been spectacularly stupid. of course someone spectacularly stupid who happened to have access to 22 billion isk or so. either their own or their corporation's. the lesson, don't give the village idiot access to your corp wallet or even a t1 frigate if you can help it."
"no!...for all you charity lovers here you go linkage"
"because iceland is too primitive to have their own lawyers?and its not like ccp has offices in other countries that might have lawyers.it is true that lawyers are expensive. but it is only a matter of time before $15 at a time adds up to an amount that will make a lawyer take interest in what they might be able to shake ccp down for in a settlement on behalf of a bunch of poor plebes like us."
"do not support.i'm all for ccp making money from stupid people. perhaps they can use this money to fix the many problems in the their game.however, i may support it if the op makes a similar donation to the red cross with his own money."
"great!"
"trying to get the link to workoh, it's a very nice idea, no matter how you slice it. give it to charity, use it to fix eve, either way.....too bad neither one is going to happen. instead, any profit ccp makes for the next 10-20 years is going to be used to pay off this idiot's debts."
"hell, big benefit is it will silence all the \"destroying plex is immoral!\" threads. worth supporting for that reason alone."
"i would support giving the money to some sort of charity."
"+1seems like a much better solution than the money going to directly to ccp.so ccp, greed or good... your choice."
"brilliance."
"1.0"
"i like the idea of donating destroyed plex to charity.from the ccp side. that shipwreck that destroyed 74 plex, that's 74 players for one month. when there's hundreds of thousands of players paying each month, that 74 plex doesn't look like much. figure 320k subscribers, that's 0.023125% of the subscription collected in a month. pretty minimal.donating the value of the destroyed plex would be a decent pr move, i'd imagine. but instead of the red cross, i'd pick a smaller one, and something that more closely resonates with gamers. something like \"child's play\""
"i like this."
"/signed"
"/thumbs up"
"approved"
"supported! very good and noble idea!"
"we all know the useless auto-targetting system module and what it does, and that is nothing usefull.so, let's give this module scripts, and make it usefull:lock all wrecks, starting with closestlock all asteroidslock all droneslock all ships, starting with smallest/starting with biggest/starting with furthest/closest/slowest/smae class as minelock only hostile ship, friendly ships, neutral shipsthen the targeting system might see some use. whywould anyone use it at all? it could be used in a mission, it could be used by a tacler so that target is locked as soon as it apprears. could be used by miners. could be used by salvagers. some useful applications are possible if it is made more intelligent, at the moment it's near worthless.some of scripts i suggested might be deemd inappropriate. someone might suggest more interesting scripts. if so, go ahead."
"while mining you have a lot of time to think about things, and a thought come to mind, gee wouldnt it be great if the isk im getting from this was real money, how cool would that be.well thinking about it some more, it could be possible, have two currencies in game, the normal isk and lets say isd (interstellar dollar). the two currencies are totally independent of each other. so and item brought with isk is worth nothing to and item brought with isd. you can convert isk to isd with real world money.ccp can float the isd on the market and make money from it, and also make money from charging services users use with the isd.so you start off as a blank avatar, and you then need to buy the skills, ships, upgrades and anything else with isd. an isd character would interact with the normal isk world. can kill and be killed, but any isk item drop can only be picked up by an isk character and visa versa for isd.for ccp to build the isd wealth is to look at it like an asteroid is a short term deposit. the wealth of that asteroid grows until some one mines it. the % of profit is used to create more asteroids, or other items that isd users will need. ccp can employ traders to regulate the prices of ores and whatnot so there is away of making money there. and the market is not flooded with useless isd item that no one wants (so you wont see corps mining 10 trillion worth of ore and selling it to a space station that will never use it). this will create a supply and demand and allow entrepreneurs to make isd.actually you could have departments, traders, insurances, financers, just like the real world departments work.of course there a lot more things to talk about and ideas to be had, so will see what everyone else thinks. remembering the aim is to make real money in a low risk way, yet have fun doing it.ccp would be a bank as such, but you have to earn the money by playing the game."
"emmm... well in some sort of a way you can make real money from playing eve, buying plexes to pay your account (saves you the real dollars) now i will not support this proposal as i don't want ccp devs wasting time on modeling and writing rules about your proposal yet focus on current issues in game. besides don't think ccp will like to close their real money income from features you described.so i say neyp.s.there's a real world out side the internet, eve after all is a game no need to make it a part time job (though for some individuals it is, ceo's, alliance leaders, etc...). just my opinion."
"what!?!!?"
"ccp would require a rl bank license to do what you describe. linden labs had their issues with that.if people could legally make money with eve, it would become even more of a job. given that people would sell in game assets for rl money and considering supply and demand, you'd be making very little money (like it is already if you use the conversion rate gtc -> isk). also, if you make rl money from it, what about taxes? it gets uglier the deeper you dig..."
"that actually was my point."
"nice idea"
"you have my vote."
"ok you one of them people that don't believe in global warming as well because you cant see it if you want to see the kill mails stop bing lazy and troll b.c for them, i told you the set up other people have told similar stories so grow up and pull ya head out of ya a**.ps look at sd and td wen you run a script you lose the the other one of the bonus, racial jamers should only jam the race there jamming. hugs and kisses"
"implying that a ship that can't lock can still hit the scorpion that has barely any hp.also implying that targeting and matching an ecm takes skill.also implying that to jam someone requires more skill than similar battleship tech ii modules (such as weapons)the scorpion does not take a long time to train and when you're done your ship is one of the most annoying ships to deal with."
"did a search for you on battleclinic.com and guess what. nothing! so either it didn't happen or you are using a faceless forum alt to post on the eve-o forums (who is the troll now?). you'll see that i do not post with a forum alt. i use my main cause i ain't afraid to.also, personal attacks when all someone does is ask for evidence, which you should have, makes you look 12 years old. please refrain from it"
"agreed.and to reply to the poster above: well, actually the scorpion does require more skills than the average bs since you have to skill tank + weapons like everybody else and skill ew too, but that's really not important.the fact is: it's ship which is easy to counter, hard to master (especially in fleet pvp) and is hardly gamebreaking. you would see a lot more of them if that was the case (like it was before they nerfed ecm... back then, about 1/3rd of every battleship fleet was made of scorpions. i know, i was there...).jam chance for off-race racial jammers is already very low, especially on a scorpion which has only 15% strength bonus. and don't speak about td and sd scripting: they affect 2 different stats or 1 stat at your choice, which means they are more flexible. but most importantly they work 100% of the time exactly how you expect them to. and often don't even need to be bonused, you see a lot of random ships with dampeners fitted. you see exactly no ships (well except perhaps for some noobs) with unbonused ecm.finally: your stories prove nothing. chance is like it is: chancy. even if (though i doubt it) your 4 bss or whatever it was, were killed by a lone scorpion, it wouldn't prove anything except that you suck at pvp (as in: at most 1 bs should have died on your side before you decided to warp out) and you had an incredible amount of bad luck on the chance rolls."
"first of all, scorpion does not take long to train for, you have no tank on it, so no point in envesting much time into tanking skills, and you don't even need weapons because you should be sitting away from battle, maybe some smartbombs against drones, but that's it. seconds, you are complaining that other e-war works all the time? what, you whant a jammer that works all the time? you do realise how much mroe powerfull ecm is compare to target painters? besides, sensor dampeners cam be countered with one module, one sensor booster, and that module is actually usefull in something except countering e-war. 2 eccm's are sometimes not enough,a dn if you don't meet a falcon, that's wasted slots, absolutely useless. and there are people who fit unbonuced emc btw."
"ahem, i hate to say this but... seriously, learn to play.1) not fitting guns on a scorpion is silly. there is no reason at all not to use them and if you do, you're doing it wrong. don't try to say \"it's an ewar ship, that's what it does\", because otherwise all the ewar ships would make sense without weapons (and, most probably, ccp would have made the ewar modules highslot in first place).2) scorpion, even in its current state is basically insta primaried by any fc worth of this name. range is not an issue, especially since dramiels, on grid probers and long range weapons are so common. not putting a tank on it means you're going to die in about 10 seconds from the beginning of the fight.i could add more, but saying that tanking and gun skills do not count because you can \"not fit them\" is completely silly, and i'm putting it mildly.about the second point: i'm not complaining that ecm is chance based. i'm saying that what that guy was talking about (the 0% chance for off-race racial jammers) is simply non-sensical. he was suggesting that this should be how the ecm works because \"tds and sds have scripts that make them go 100% on one stat and 0% on the other\". i simply reminded him that a) scripts are optional and let you choose between 3 different modes of work b) the other kinds of ewar are not chance based and thus work at the stated efficacy 100% of the time c) didn't state it there but i'll state it here: ecm gets reduced efficacy depending on the race of the ship you're fighting, while the other forms of ew do not.target painters are ofc nerfed... they're arguably even a kind of ew, that i agree. but comparing ec to tracking disruption or sensor dampening is another thing, didn't mention target painting anywhere in my post."
"well i do support this suggestion. i really like the changes that are suggested as they would definitely make hybrids better. however i think that i agree more with the guys above me that rather than raising optimal range on blasters, i think that ccp should rather improve tracking on blasters and gallente ships ability to close range faster. gallente are meant to be armor tankers but both plates and armor rigs just nerf the speed. which really makes gallente useless. and while for example some shield brutix doesnt have the speed problem, it cannot fit a web which is pretty much required for keeping the optimal range.fix the hybrids!/edit: oh and also fix t2 blaster ammo. they are a joke."
"supported!"
"i support reworking hybrids as well"
"i too, would like to neut my cap when i burst someone in range of me."
"why not let it be based on bonuses and letting it act like a super-sized bomb launcher?remote ecm burst (reb) (as is).remote interdiction bubble (rib); 30km radius, 120s ttl.remote propulsion inhibitor (rpi); 20km radius, 120s ttl, 50% webifier effect.remote energy neutralization (ren); 20km radius, kills x cap.all mom's can use all varieties but get bonuses only to their racial:wyvern would get a jam strength bonus to reb making it a sure thing against non-eccm ship.nyx bonus to rib would get a mwd kill as with scramblers, increase radius or ttl.hel would get rpi strength bonus taking it up to 60-75% web effect.aeon's bonus to ren would increase cap killed.wouldn't that merely be a case of classifying the bursts as ewar thus rendering the moms immune to their own effects?"
"i was kinda thinking this would get more attention from some of the nullsec dwellers in here =/ sov seems like a pretty important topic as far as things go..."
"also, allow a mechanic to allow the transfer of a pos to another corporation without taking it down, repackaging, and putting up again. should require ceo or director role."
"i think it's a good idea overall, but i'm not to keen on the whole \"space has to held for x amount of days to be transferred\" because that defeats the whole purpose of peaceful, speedy, sov transfers. for example, if an allied alliance just took over some red systems, and i wanted to trade systems i had for those systems, i'd rather be able to instantly transfer the systems instead of having to wait x amount of days. if you had to wait x amount of days, putting up a sbu and taking the 8 hours to online it would be faster.i'd propose that a sov transfer wouldn't be able to take place if a sbu is onlineing, or if a sbu is online. kinda like how you can't dock/jump right after you agress, or can't warp if you are being disrupted/scrammed; if x is happening, y can't happen.other then that, i'd support this."
"so i'm the first to post, not the first to realize that abuse of this system would be epic.note: does anybody remember band of brothers and the whole director level spy issuefollowing this one would only need a director level spy, and give all space to the alliances worst enemy. no fight, you can't dock, and the whole thing would be bloodless for the first few days as everyone scrambles to refit pvp ships. not supported on the basis that this would throw the political balance of eve heads up and it'll never recover.midnight pheonix"
"nice! this alone is awesome enough to support. spy is part of eve. letting a spy up to director level just means you deserve the consequences. those larger chunks of sov-null are too static and way too peaceful. this'll be fun."
"that's kind of what i was trying to do when i said \"the originating alliance must not have had its sovereignty threatened (i.e., the system sbu'd) in the system they wish to transfer for at least 14 days.\", so that the system couldn't be abused in such a way that if an alliance knew they were about to lose their space, they couldn't just immediately transfer it to an ally instead of letting the enemy take it. the thing about holding space for a period of time before being able to transfer it sort of goes hand in hand with the above, to add a little stability to the system, making sure alliances can only transfer territory they truly control, not just systems they take over for a day or two as a fluke. at the minimum i think it should be the same 14 day period that they have to hold it without sov being threatened/sbus being anchored. as for it being abused by bob-type infiltrations, that's the alliance's problem. i think a system such as this would be an incentive for them to keep their security tight and watch their backs a little more closely. infiltration and spying is a part of eve and this would be no different"
"the original wiki demonstrates that this was passed by the csm with no decent con arguments made. in this thread there seems to be just as many people who are posting against this idea as for it. and there has been precious little on how encouraging podkills (which this will no doubt do) is good for eve.this issue is the main issue where i think the csms method of \"weighing\" player support failed. they gave us no way to tell them we think this idea stinks. so the 20% who listed this among their *20* items they want ccp to do will now appear to speak for everyone. the original wiki claims that this will be a better measure of damage. i agree that this very limitted goal is accomplished to some extent. however, i would point out that when we talk about the big isk pirate implants this can lead to some very skewed results. if i bought snakes 6 months ago for 1.5 billion and they now cost 3 billion. the killboard will not know what i paid for them. it might post 3 billion even though i never would have paid that much for them. the variations on the values of the pirate implants is quite a bit larger than the variation on cost of most mods. i would agree that the attribute implants will be the mainstay for this  and their prices dont swing as much. i am just pointing out that when it comes to the pirate implants the damage totals will be pretty skewed. the main problem remains that the increased emphasis on podkills will just be another discouragement to getting new players into eve pvp. i dont think that is good for eve."
"this, tbh"
"sooo.....eve is fine, huh? is that why you started this thread?please respond to the multiple choice question below:i, cromo effect, am _______a: a complete forum troll.b: a barely functioning mental degenerate.c: a complete douchebag.d: all of the above"
"lolwat"
"why the hell are you proposing something that doesn't even exist?your making assumptions over something that isn't even out.are you trying to be a total noob? because your doing a fantastic job."
"ccp was on the verge of implementing it that way, but a very large number of people complained about the security problems it would have imposed, and so ccp changed it at the last minute iirc."
"any system to give a character benefits from making friends will only result in people manufacturing friends to abuse the \"make a friend\" system.community is built by people helping each other and making friends, not by people exploiting each other for personal gain."
"since \"manufacturing friends\" require the person paying subscription for a new account and lining ccp's coffers, you can say it's working as intended."
"i am all for this. the multi select within range and drag and drop all in range from the overview is an awesome idea. maybe we could even have a skill book or two that would add to the range of which you can do this too. say for every level you get another 500 meters of range."
"no offence taken."
"yeah, heaven forbid that the meta-gaming side of eve should be allowed to follow into the hallowed halls of the fanbois remember - no place in eve is safe, not even in here"
"just from a quick glance, i think that most of the hits aren't to eve-player generated content but more generic stuff."
"not right. try to stop a blockade runner in lowsec. you may succeed, but well, it's not easy.the animals should harden the **** up. cloak or nanofiber + wcs are your friends, and don't use a valuable ship that could be worth blowing up. remember that pods instawarp, use them. otherwise use a frigate with mwd and reapproach the gate. is it that complicated? people whine about lowsec travel being dengerous because they don't know how to cope with the difficulties. the point is: you want more people to go into lowsec and live there. how can this happen? the real problem is safety. in empire, there is a lot of \"passive safety\". being in a lowsec belt is almost like being in 0.0, and this means that security must be granted by groups of players as happens in 0.0. that is: if pvp corporations don't go to lowsec, it will never be populated. so, my idea is that we should add more meaningful and rewarding pvp to lowsec, that is, forcing interregional trade into lowsec. and don't tell me that traders in eve are a weak category that should be saved from destruction. another possibility is to add some sort of farming chances to lowsec. but eventually it will not work: look at lvl5s. there are a lot of people that can afford a rattlesnake and run lvl5s and make a lot of money in lowsec, much more than running lvl4. but they will never go there, because they are alone. don't add carebear/farming stuff to lowsec because carebear and farmers will never go there anyway.there is possibly one exception to this: adding something unique to lowsec, whose price will be driven up by the market. but the problem is that this would call a lot of different forces, making even more difficult to take control of the area, and it could drive to an escalation that could end with 0.0 alliances taking control of lowsec. the general problem is that if you create a thing with much real value, it will call forces from all around the cluster. so this unique item must be valuable, but not too much. ccp taght us that the only way to break the influence of powerful big alliances in such cases is to \"break the space\" as ccp did in wormholes. the ability to use smuggler or hidden stargates could be interesting.another possibility is to make lowsec safer, introducing concord on some spots only (stations and/or gates and/or belts and/or mission complexes, but does it make any sense?), but this will just change lowsec into highsec."
"omg...\"pirating is too easy...\"\"pirates should disappear...\"\"more carebear in low sec...\"what a boring game you are planning here. come on, wake up , we are in an online game, and btw ccp developped such an interesting way of pvp. stop killing this. carebears have cloak, scan, wcs, and uncountable ways to escape, so i think there's no need to get more about this.and before talking about pirates, be a pirate, play as a pirate, and see how carebears are protected by game mechanics. see how free pvp is getting murdered in this game by people who just want to make money... virtual money btw. if you are bored by people who just want free pvp, if you want to rat all the time or build all the time or anything else than pvp, go on an offline game, it will be better for everyone, for god's sake !!and the idea of pirate mission... omg, do you think pirates are interested with doing missions ? no, they just want all-time pvp, that's why they choose an online game, but without blob of tens of persons as \"***-tionnals\" or nullsec aliance, and as it is impossible in this game such ccp protect carebears, they go for gatecamp etc, and believe me, this is not what most of them like to do.so stop trying to understand what pirates want, stop trying to make carebearism get enhanced, stop killing pvp, please."
"disclamer: i hate the fact that jita 4-4 is the center of the trading universe.tbh the thought of hi sec highways between warring factions never seemed logical in the first place i.e. every empire is seperated by a one or two system wide lowsec militarized zone. why should i be able to fly from minmatar space to caldari or amarr space through hisec when we are at war. i would much prefer to have every empire have its major one or two trade hubs and have the inter-empire trade controlled by those bold enough to travel through lowsec and/or the money to fly blockade runners.i do think though that allies should have hi sec trade routes.edit: original post seemed a little muddled"
"there are unfortunately many inaccuracies in the csm wiki pages. in particular, items that were either rejected or actually implemented have not had their status updated. i have already spent many hours trying to clean out the augean stables, so to speak.the prioritization crowdsourcing that i did last week exposed some more errors in the list, and i will do some more updating soon. part of the problem is that i don't have good records of ccp correspondence with csms 1-3."
"sounds like high witchery to me....space witchey zomg!"
"new york times 2007:is this what we have now ?"
"he certainly doesn't 'get' it, but his ignorance is just so adorable."
"you have obviously never flown in a tournament, people would still put the effort in if the prizes were just medals... (maybe not as much effort, but still a lot)"
"and what if, just what if, you stopped spamming jita local with your fake cnr contracts? i think that would make local a bit more fun and interactive, you know"
"absolutely /signed.eve needs more visual indicators for vital information like this.i mean come on, it's a spaceship simulation. we're flying ships in the size of cities, being wired to the ship's hardware to improve reaction time but we still have to look up speed vectors in long tables or analyze movement manually?"
"fully supported"
"definitely"
"supported fix the lag its past ridiculous now."
"it's yes but as a quality test developer i can affirm you these people exist.hunting bugs is a fun job too but it take indeed more times to sometimes just make a tiny change at the right place to close a strange behavior between two 'unrelated' packages.ccp just need to invest more in their qa team but as you stated more new players = more new direct $$$$ the time the bug annoy everybody.for eve space bugs are now the issues.if cpp don't change it will be the same for dust."
"this is a proposal to ask ccp to evaluate their attitude...'this was all i needed to read."
"couldn't possibly support this more."
"i'm so game for this... this really needs to be done.especially the api functionality"
"this is a terrible idea everyone should vote it down."
"^ supported."
"these changes would be great"
"only 1 thing any sensible person can say about these requests! yes"
"supported.especially for the api part, which is a feature player have asked for again and again."
"yes ccp, please :)"
"that's good in my book. fw wont be an intro to pvp if those alliances turn it into capship warfare. it's a little bit of a problem as it is now, with corim liking to hot drop caps. minnies have problems as it is getting fleets when amarr have the numbers on."
"cade windstalker,4,5,6,14,15,18,19,32,38,39,45,47,49,59,77,98,122,136,137,161"
"supported."
"signed."
"good idea"
"/signed"
"+1 good idea"
"yep"
"/signed"
"csm 5 votes and passed.upto ccp now.-t'amber"
"yes"
"the 8th page is not the place this thread must belong to"
"fix it!"
"i'm willing to bet 90% of the whining russians in this thread don't know a word of english other than \"signed.\" not supported. some 0.0 space is better than others, and some is better for different purposes than other space. drone regions are nice for manufacturing and not much else, if it doesn't suit your style, then fight for better space or leave. rats should either have bounties, or drop minerals. drone rats drop minerals (well, drone compounds anyway, you get the point). not both. or help xix/ra finally ~conquer insmother~ or something if you want better space."
"the point is not better region or not, the point is cpp feature not working !they know en but don't want to speak here cause there is a .ru forum too.the problem is that the drone region have more bug than any other ones, simply cause cpp even less listen to the russian player then the english speaking ones !cpp introduced the dominion pay system but it's unbalancing down the drone region cause all the others have bounties to pay cpp. while chassing isk and attempting to sell more plex in the other 0.0 regions, cpp ignored the russian community and the drones. they attempted in the alloy patch and again failed and introduced new bugs...the point is not the region itself, some+ some-. but the bugs in the features of cpp.cpp fail by the bug and really hardly in the drone region !conquering an other place will not resolve the bugs."
"i'm depressed at your selfishness. the only people in all of eve who'd benefit from this change would be those who live in drone regions, and my guess is the only people who will support this is the people who live there and their alts. i don't think ccp should waste their time so you can make a few more mil isk an hour when they could be spending their time fixing hybrids (and the myriad other issues that affect more then a few miners who want more iskies) , or working dust and space walking."
"mutch of the drone region bugs are related to ccp features bugs.except that in the drone region cpp cumulated the bugs effects.one bug increasing cause an other one.dominion is not working in the drone region as in the others regions.ccp simply missed the target there.we are not talking about comparing delkein to providence or geminate. focus is not on the region but if cpp fix the drone region they will have to solve a lot of bugs at once.this is how to read this thread !"
"supported, this will bring them to low sec."
"lol name got changed huh? poor sucker"
"it's about time."
"8-)"
"because you'd probably like a serious reply as well...this used to be how things worked a loooong time ago (correct me if i'm wrong on this point) and you used to be able to kill and pod fleet mates with no consequences in high sec.this was changed because of people fleeting up with missioners with the promise of helping them and then killing them.high sec missions don't pay as well as null sec ratting and in general everything pays better in low or null sec. mission runners bring a very valuable and necessary infusion of cash to the game and they're just about the only market for high value modules and implants because there's too much risk of losing them in low and null sec compared to the benefits (where as another 200 tank really matters for a high sec mission runner).in short: this would be bad for the game, the game's economy, and for the player base in general.you're free to suicide gank in high sec. have fun."
"this option is actually very profitable. ganking a 5 bill mission runner and only losing 5 - 6 bs in the process is something we will continue to do happily."
"petitioning pwnage ftw."
"ccp please add this issue in a future expansion"
"this ever took place?"
"yes in process atm"
"i would like to see railguns and blasters have a small chance of penetrating some of their damage into armor every time they fire. we have missiles, we have projectiles(i assume low velocity for sake of argument) we have lasers and then high velocity railguns and blasters."
"how about lasers cooking your pod alive? seriously, this is stupid, rails may need some work, but blaster do not need to be even more op, especially in weird ways. a 1k dps brutix would strip buffer in no time, that kind of dps don't need to \"penetrate into armor\" when what's above it is gone in seconds anyway."
"i support this idea. it only makes sense that t3 emerging from wh can be used to their full potential there. beyond being a quality of life issuesfor some of the most isolated people in the game, it would also encourage people to actually go in whs and settle there."
"supported."
"so many of these requests like this, i even have one that is three weeks old..."
"+1 good idea"
"!!!"
"adding self-support for this proposal.the support checkbox does not work when creating the topic?"
"not suportedthe 3 other sugestions are better3rd:"
"supported."
"+1 good idea"
"do something, please! my thingers are broken :("
"mjana,2,8,9,11,14,18,21,31,38,42,44,48,52,76,85thumbs up for the idea of \"voting\" on the small problems. would be nice to see the results flowing into the backlog prioritization at ccp.there are some issues however, where i can easily see why ccp might reject them because of gamedesign (15,22,64,65) or where it will turn into a lot more work (5,6,26,62,86).p.s. can i vote with all my characters, since ccp is getting 3x the money from me anyways?"
"+1 for this idea, though i think they should split the money up between a few charities."
"/signed"
"/signedalthough something about this seems futile. if ccp were even remotely interested in doing the right thing they would be fixing the bugs and additional lag created by dominion. instead their priority is trying to bedazzle the market with flashy gimmicks like walking in stations. this is not a company who is going to pay any real attention to us."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"my respect for ccp would burst through the roof if they donated their winnings on plex deaths to charity :) supported!"
"i like it!"
"supported but ccp will never do it as it costs them money. they didnt make plex movable because they thought it was cool, they did it because they found another way to squeeze a little more money out of us without having to do anything but process cc payments.even if they did this...it would be just like why they actually set up plex for haiti. we gave them money for gametime. they donated that money in their name for a giant tax deduction not because they cared. if they had no other motive other than to help haiti they would simply asked us to donate to the red cross and posted links to the various charities involved."
"last i read, linden labs did not get a real banking license; it was the mmo in, iirc, sweden, that got a real banking license with like $60k protection from the government banking regulator. linden labs did get a lot of press when they had the first person to make over a million dollars from selling virtual items.it would be logical and i would like it but it has zero chance of ever happening in eve.btw, i do not understand the tax argument. just because something is not officially, directly convertible to cash does not eliminate the tax consequences. i believe most taxing authorities would not see a difference in taxes if you gave a contract worker $2200 dollars or $2200 worth of gift-certificates or $2200 of wine for their labour. so why should giving or stealing $2200 be treated differently by taxing authorities than 74 plexes (kestral ftl) or 42 billion isk?"
"yeah, that would be very cool. so cool that eve will become overcrowded with macro miners from god knows where that will legally do rmt in eve. that would be awesome.just imagine the bright future: - all belts stripped from asteroids in highsec 2 hours after downtime.- tritanium prices, for example, gone up 100%+- massive inflation- market collapses within one month(^^this already happened before the \"unholy rage\" by ccp.)also, big alliance leaders that are holding high end moons and making dozens of billions a month would get a chance to buy that lamborghini they always wanted - if they manage to fool anyone to actually buy isds before the whole game crashes. how cool is that?p.s.get a job."
"issue:\"mechanic\" section of the skills is needlessly overpopulated with multiple types of skills that have nothing to do with each other. it's as much confusing to new players as it is for veterans.solution:make new skill sections and separate the skills that are now in \"mechanic\" into three different categories (names tbd):- armor and hull tanking skills (repair systems operation, armor compensation skills,...);- rigging skills (jury rigging, drones rigging,...);- advanced ship and outpost production skills (outpost construction, cruiser construction,...)pros:clearing up \"mechanic\" skills section to be less confusing to new characters and more user friendly to veterans.cons:none.please support and spread the word. thanks for your attention.edit:as suggested below, there are also other skill groups that needs to be revised. like shield tanking skills in a separate group from engineering skills that are dealing with capacitor and powergrid. the title has been changed accordingly."
"1.0"
"while they're at it, they should remove shield skills from engineering. saying \"i have x mil sp in engineering\" is meaningless since they could all be in capacitor, all be in shield, etc."
"that as well."
"now, all we have to do is think of good names for all the skill groups and what skills should go where!"
"1.0"
"yes +1"
"yes"
"1.0"
"good idea and best thing is, that this is literally 3 lines of code to change :pwill raise it for the next meeting."
"+1 from another mm member :)"
"1.0"
"most definitely supported, though i'm sure we can debate a looong time on what should go where.maybe another idea would be to introduce sub groups, for instance, i can see rigging as being part of the mechanic tree, but they all should also be in their own tree called rigging ( or maybe ship tweaking, or whatnot ).so i propose, introduce sub trees, where skills can be grouped together that fit into a general category, but also should fit better away from some of the thigns that also fit into this category.mechanic: - rigging - armour enchancementconstructionengineering - shield enhancement - capacitor upgradesgunnery -> renamed to 'offense' maybe? - projectile weapons - hybrid weapons - laser weapons - missiles - electronic warfare - capital weapon systemsthose are some i can think of from the top of my head."
"please god yes! i would be happy to just have the shield and armor skills extracted."
"yes! supported"
"why bother? it's not like swapping things around changes anything. besides, no matter where you put them, someone's going to whine for it to be changed again to where they think those skills belong.i'd rather see the skill attributes changed. combat toons have high perception/willpower, but need int/mem to train engineering/electronics skills. industrial toons have high intelligence/memory, but need to train per/wil skills to fly industrial ships. a change to attributes used for skills so that professions mostly require 2 skills would be more helpful. it would encourage more focused characters, and satisfy all those ppl that want more frequent revamps."
"highsec missions are already a big enough nerf to lowsec, given that you can talk to an npc and he'll spawn a 1.1 mil rat with lp and concord protection. the change from this will be irrelevant, especially if ccp ties risk to pvp to the bounty reward (so a rat in highsec, regardless of difficulty, will pay less than the same rat in low or nullsec)."
"i am all for some cruiser rats in 0.5 or 0.6. but as high sec mining has already seen quite some nerfs it should be only one cruiser in 0.6 and two in 0.5. a single hulk must still be able to tank it when actively playing with drones or kill them in time before the own tank goes boom. otherwise you would nerf single players who are in a npc corp. special spawns like dark blood etc can be even in a bc or a bs. of course the reward is not as high in low sec but 50-75k for a cruiser could be ok."
"50-75k is what you get for cruisers in lowsec. you'd have to make it 25-37k, and even then you'd be increasing salvage drops from it."
"hmm but in lvl 4s in 0.5 you get 50-75k as well. shouldnt this be consistent?"
"1.0"
"+1 to op and to:"
"it should be chance based, so there is a low chance of a battleship rat spawning in high sec (although very low)"
"no, a etc is 30$, but an etc = 2 plex, 1 plex is only 15$ ;)anyway, this seems to be a good idea, i will be more interested by using the char transfer is possible to pay by plex :)"
"i propose that we make a type of e-war that prevents you from commanding your drones, brings your gun optimal range and missile flight time (except fof missiles) to zero, and gives you 0 mm scan resolution and targeting range.maybe t2 ships using this type of e-war can use their e-war on 3 or 4 other ships, at over 100km range.it will be countered by a module that does almost nothing except provide resistance to this type of e-war. maybe it can, say, make you harder to probe out, but it shouldn't do something that would make you fit it if you weren't going against this type of e-war.to make it not overpowered, don't give the race that uses it a secondary e-warish thing, so no neut, scram, and web bonuses for this race's e-war ships."
"we already have e-war(s) that does this...1. target disruption(makes it so you can't lock, meaning drones won't shoot unless you told them to before you were disrupted)2. tracking disruption (decreases guns optimal and tracking)now, a kind of e-war that i wouldn't mind seeing is anti-missiles, seeing as that's the only way to damage that doesn't have a counter besides speed (which can counter everything to an extent).also, certain ships give bonuses that make the previously stated types of e-war go out to those ranges. (all except the missiles one...)edit: on second thought, what you stated is pretty much caldari e-war (tracking disruption). tracking disrupting a ship in in essence making their scan resolution 0, making it so they can't lock anything. now, if they can't lock anything, they can't tell their drones to kill stuff, their guns to shoot stuff, or their missiles to go lob out into space.p.s. i still like the idea of anti-missile e-war."
"ahem...obvious ecm troll is obvious. don't feed it."
"5/10 because you made me laughespeshially i love that. this guy is making a parody for ecm, eccm is what makes you harder to probe out (worthless) and when you are jammed your targetting resolution becomes 0- i.e. you can't lock and fire."
"and i wondered how long it would take ccp to nerf the name of the troll..."
"this is wrong on so many levels. despite i'm sharing the opinion that ecm needs some nerf bat loving (an overhaul, the concept is just wrong), the examples you chose in your post are extremely dumb. to bring some more sense into your list of ships:curse: 40% bonus to neut range per levelarazu: 20% warp disruptor range bonus per levelrapier: 60% stasis webifier bonus per levelfalcon: 30% ecm strength bonus per levelso, how would the bonuses be out of place? the examples you linked are the ships' secondary bonuses and for pilots who like to \"fit their ships differently\" (read: failfit). fitting damps, tps and tds to those ships is completely wrong, because those modules don't serve any real use. aside from special occasions obviously.imo the way they should work is: break locks, just not for 20 seconds."
"1.0"
"supported, rails need fixing, but no increase to range of blasters. just make blasters to be the \"if i ever get into range i win button\""
"i don't see how anyone can not support this. it's black on white. you fought bull**** with facts.+1you should think about putting this on a spreadsheet with colored fields to indicate which gun wins and where. it'll make the data 'pop'.try google docs -- that way no one has to download anything to view the spreadsheet."
"i refuse to support any thread that increases rail dps. rails are fine on dps.i also feel the falloff bonus on the deimos is fine, simply because your argument is mute with the fact that range is not a problem on the rail deimos currently. simply put, i don't want cookie cutter hacs that all have exactly 81km optimals... i mean wtf is the point of race at that point. however, i do like the change to higher alpha for rails. i also like the 10% increase and higher optimals on blasters. honestly, i think they could use a boost on both the optimal and the fall off to where a mega can hit about 25-30km optimal with blasters a with about 15-20km falloff at max skills with no te or tc. that puts it at similar range expectations as pulses and autos, while neither matching the optimal of pulses nor the falloff of autos. (25/20 is my prefered choice) ferox and brutix suffer the same fate as all the t1 bc's, people refuse to balance them because they always throw cost at you as an excuse. personally i hate that reasoning and would like for all t1 bc's to be looked at. t1 bc's suffer from the stupid fact that only 1 teir was released at the start. their order of succession makes absolutely no sense. for instance, the highest teir of ship for caldari always seems to be rail oriented except for bc class (ie moa over caracal, rohk over raven, etc.), and the lower teir is always drones for gallente except for bc class (higher teir is blaster ie mega over domi, thorax over vexor, etc.)i could argue about the other 2 bc's as well, but this is not the thread for that. but then again, remember ccp has 18 months til they'll consider rebalancing anyways, and even then it'll be half assed and not closely monitored after changing."
"that's a fair point, at least in bubble-free lowsec. what if remote e-war bursts were restricted in the same way as doomsdays, being inoperable in lowsec? seems a little unfair that the only way to tackle a supercap is with an unreppable cruiser which supercarriers can lockbreak off them every 4-5 minutes.newsflash: friendly fire isn't friendly!would idiot aeon pilots nuking their own capacitor by firing off bursts willy nilly and not checking range first be a bad thing?"
"ccp fix this"
"what i'm trying to say is that it would be pointless to have a 14 day limit on sov transfer because if an alliance wanted to transfer sov before then all they'd have to do is take it over the old way... which ruins the point of instant transfers."
"there will be no abuse, because ccp will be smart about it a give us a 24 hour timer, unlike the disband allience button."
"may i please ask the csm members to publish/link here the proposal their will submit to ccp ?ccp, please don't come at the meeting and say 'oh, we haven't noticed players wanted these points !' we will not trust you !ccp, you had plenty of time to prepare a mature reaction like 'ok guys we can allocate x weeks of dev for this point...' or 'we will not do it !'.ccp, avoid also 'we are aware of it we are investigating...' we aren't it idiots.'and if the council really, really hammers ccp, then they will actually push items up in the log and into the development queue.'the hammercheers,yeay"
"i have updated the proposal page to incorporate your suggestion. please check it and confirm i got it right.best, trebor"
"you suffer for perfect circular logic.there is too much risk in low sec. make pvp in low sec easier, it will increae the presence of pvp corp.ooops, that will increase risk in low sec and reduce population. so what you get? even more starving predators and even less prey.and then you add your crocodile tears about how hard is to get a prey. perfect."
"pretty close - we now have eve online - nge"
"support - its a great idea"
"the problem as i see it is not that suicide ganking is wrong or should be stopped, but that the lack of consequence has led the practice to become so prevalent that everyone ios doing it. the situation as it stands is that the people 'suffering' or not establised carebear corps but new pilots who dont have much to start with and whose loss is sometimes enough to cause them to leave. eve is not immune to the need for new players and while a sandbox game is and should be relatively unregulated as a rule, i do think that there is a fine line here that we should be aware of. a gang of gankers that make a major hauler bust worth millions should be applauded - the random bored high skill pilot blowing up new pilot retrievers - not so much. i believe that some consequence should be added to prevent a valid tactic becoming a griefing tool. just what that mechanism is, and how to balance it, i am not sure."
"there are consequences already in place. we just choose to accept and/or ignore them."
"you know, ccp, if you actually fixed the game all 300 thousand of us (or so) would become a greater marketing tool than anything you could ever devise (except for mind control maybe :p). seriously, if we all liked it and got others to join/ play dust 514, jsut think of the moneyyou'd rake in. this post is beyond fully supported by me and my corp."
"/signed"
"supported!"
"great idea!"
"nice! /support"
"/support"
"i don't support this because it's useful for me at the moment but because it will help the haulers and hauling corporations manage their contracts."
"i support. plz make rails better."
"from what i've read, it's got nothing to do with what we want, rather that ccp want to make world of evecraft, where millions of fraggles sign up and boost their income dramatically. my guess is that it will eventually include nice, safe instances where they can pve their hearts out in absolute safety. i run l4 missions loads to fund pvp but the thought of being completely safe while doing so is nearly as awful as the thought of having to go to jita.even if every last one of the current playerbase quits, they're happy to take that hit. not everyone will quit, so they get that extra cash, too."
"btw, any indication of which topics were taken off the table by ccp and which ones were just not very high at the top of any csm's wishlist?i'm particularly interested in the following:commit to fixing the uiwhat ever happened to the industry expansion?modular starbase/pos dead horse fixesi assume these were all nixed by ccp. c/d?"
"nothing was directly taken off the table by ccp at this point.some items were determined to have already been rejected or implemented (in other words, the wiki was not updated). i have just now fixed those, as it happens.some items were removed because they were not relevant to the scope of the planning meetings (ie: commit to excellence), typically because they were general prescriptions.all of the remaining items that received support from at least one csm made the final list.i updated the wiki page a day or two ago with more details of the process."
"bump"
"supported"
"submit!"
"+1 good idea"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"supported."
"i totally support that idea."
"1.0"
"+1 for support"
"ooo something else i wants for my internet spaceships."
"yes, supported."
"i support this if there's a total revamp of bms.there's so much potential in bms which still needs to be unleached.some more suggestions.* bms visible on overview* to reduce the stress on the database, i would drastically reduce the possible amount of personal bms, but giving the corp bms a way way higher limit. (like 100 personal, 1000 corp bms)this would drive more ppl into player corps just to benefit from those bms* i don't support the idea that everyone can share a set of personal bms, that's way too cool as spy tool.* temporary bookmarks. since everyone is talking about wh-space and signatures, there should be an option upon creating of a bm, that allows you to set a lifetime of a bm. this would also help the database since all bms of signatures could be set to 1-2 days and poof, it's gone.* temporary bm. option to automatically delete bms after a certain time (setup upon creation). deletes all those unexisting signature bms* director bms, only visible for the leaders of a corp* bookmark logging to see who adds, modifies or deleted bookmarks.* bm 24h recyclebin, to counter emorage delete actions of rogue directors* no way to copy corp bms, unless you warp to it and create a new one.* on a second step, link corp bms in evemails"
"someone once told me \"pvp is concentual as soon as you undock\"first off i'd like to state i'm neutral on this subject. i will neither support it because i do infact take part in suicide ganking and other unmoral acts of aggression towards others. also i condemn others for doing acts of unmoral aggression that i would have nothing to do with. i am in no way a hypocrite though i'm sure many of those that have read the previous sentences believe that i am. i was raised to do on to others are others do on to you. its not an eye for an eye mentality being that i won't suicide gank someone else for suicide ganking a friend. if it happens to me i respond with the same likeness.with all that said. messenger carebears are the minority in this game. most of the current sitting csm deligates are pvpers or pirates. though i don't believe any of them are confirmed griefers. either way the only way to remain 100% safe in any world is to lock yourself away from all contact with anyone. comparing this game to the real world on either side just gives the opposing side of your argument fuel. there are two common ways to deal with a bully.1.) beat him up and prove your strength to him/her. (this doesn't always work because most of the time they bully will just come back with friends and hurt you again.)2.) ignore it and walk away from the fight believing that your the better person. (this never works because the bully knows that eventually you'll crack)there are other options for you to choose from but that is the most common. as for your purposal i do aggree with one thing and i believe even some of the pvpers aggree with it from my reading of other posts. and tahts the fact that the insurence still pays out even after concord has destroyed the ship. what you need to do first is take a step back from the game and ignore the flames come from the pvpers and re-write your purposal with a bit more of a non-basis view. incorporate changes that would benefit both groups. adding more security for ships that fly in high sec but also in turn offer a way to bribe concord sec status so you could esentially pay concord for a +10 sec status. rather then having to grind your way there in so doing taking on the same risks that the carebears have. but also allowing the carebears more security by having a greater punishment of not giving the suicide ganker an insurence pay out.on other note, i would like to physically see where ccp has announced that they want this game to harbor hatred and discontent between its players and that they encourage the dis-satisfaction of they're subscribers. also that the game was primarly designed to be a purely pvp game, and that its the intent of ccp to keep the game purely pvp. if you can provide this documentation i would be greatly appriecative as i'm sure many pvpers wouldn't mind having that information to snuff out any further tears that arrise from carebears in the future. please keep in mind if these are not formal documents and or if you state that you are speaking on behalf of a company of which you have no employment with and/or can not prove your allogations of ccps wants and wishes. you need to refrane from doing so being that it could cause legal issues for not only ccp as a company but you as well."
"i wouldn't want to kill someone in real life because of the emotional trauma it would cause me and their loved ones. that is called empathy. normal people have empathy. what you are describing is a lack of empathy.not having empathy means you are a sociopath. however, sociopaths have really successful lives, i wish you good luck with it. charles manson, jeffery dahmer, ted kaczynski, and timothy mcveigh -- all famous people."
"has to be said again and again.the game is designed for you to loose your ship regardless of where you are. wanting to be safe somewhere is against the intention of this game. the only issue at best is balance issue, aka: suicide gankers have/had it too easy. with the recent insurance changes they need to make sure their target is more valuable then before. then there is also the possibility of someone suicide ganking you for the fun of it. that's essentially the very foundation of eve.either grow some balls, or find a new game to play."
"i see everyone wanting to support this and i agree that it would be nice if you find yourself in a bit of a pickle, but am i the only one that likes the idea of being able to chase a red around a sytem rather than just reporting \"he warped to no where\"sorry, not supported."
"/support... i need that"
"yes."
"he'll warp to a planet at 70 or a bm just the same so it doesn't really affect that, he can align to a moon, warp in at range and then safe up so doesn't really make that big of a differenceplus i'd like to point out if you have someone scanned out, you could align to that place and wait for a tackle and instawarp in =)"
"the best way to tank that brutix is to shoot it. it has almost no bufferwith that being said i would love to see hybrids get a boost"
"everybody who tell about 1k dps brutix usually do not mention about several bad issues:neutrons should be overheated;all calibration points should be occupied by hybrid weapon rigs;brutix will have no buffer;cap time is less 2 minutes;1000 dps brutix should use 5 medium drones - so, no jam drones.excellent \"1-pew glass canon\" :)"
"ha-ha. 1000 dps brutix? :) ok. let me show 1000 dps hurricane:[1001 dps hurricane (overheated)] 4xgyrostabilizer ii2xballistic control system iiwarp disruptor iilarge shield extender ii6x425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m2xheavy assault missile launcher ii, terror rage assault missilemedium projectile collision accelerator imedium projectile burst aerator ihammerhead ii x"
"yesterday i experienced a major fault when dealing in my niche :shuttlesthe actions by the game alleeged some totally different transactionsthan those ..i had tried to enter ...( i have played 3 years .. made many mistakes along the road .. and have learned by bitter experience ..to be careful ... and was especially careful when entering these specific data ! )i attempted to enter sell orders in very low volume at 19900 isk /piecei did this 3 times in succession at the same station.. but nothing happened( i had entered ..succesfully .. the same order in a station in the same solar system , with the same corporation but with different planetary location .. approx 3 minutes prior to this )i then became suspicious and when looking at other screensit suddenly appeared that i had sold first 128 shuttles at 5 isk per piece to someone else... and then in succession first bought 238 shuttles at 5 isk per piece from myself ... and then again sold 238 shuttles to myselfi have no explanation for what happened i have petitioned it ..but recieved a response which to meindicates that the petition team hasnt investigated this at allthe only thing i can say is that as it happened to me .. well ..then it could happen again ..for anyone ...thereby in realitypulling the carpet away under the whole game ...i hereby ... in the interest of all ... ask for some assistance in getting to the bottom in this eventulf raben"
"huh?"
"43475.0"
"wat?negative 5 out of 10"
"supported."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"good idea"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"supported"
"supported"
"support this topic"
"supported!!!"
"1.0"
"good!"
"+1 good idea =)"
"mark weston 54,53,52,48,40,31,11,9,8,2"
"make deployed secure containers in space show anchoring/unanchoring timers and status, just like pos structures."
"yea so is fixing rockets but it takes ccp years to do that, i think its wasted effort, and they would be better off fixing something that actually needs fixing rather than messing about with the ui and (potentially) breaking a load of stuff in the process. not supported."
"actually, this will require 0 lines of code.i'm quite sure that skills like any 'static' data like this is stored in the database, along with what group a skill belongs to. so all that is needed is someone to come up with a better group/subgroup setup that makes more sense and divides things better, and then enter this into the database for the next patch.only code requirement would be for the display to be able to handle the skills and groups like a tree instead of a flat table with sub entries.my estimation as developer:design new skill list/groups/subgroups: 4-6 hoursalter database: 2 hoursrewrite skill table as tree: 4-6 hourstesting: 4 hourscreate patch data for deployment: 1 hour"
"this idea was initially inspired by a post that ana vyr made herethe local channel would be an information network, providing the communication ids of the pilots in the same system as you. this network is maintained by the corporation with sovereignty and is shared with pilots at the corporation's discretion.how pilots get on the local network:n1. a pilot uses a stargate to enter the system.n2. a pilot can be scanned from a celestial or stargate in the system.n3. a pilot is docked at a station in the system.n4. a pilot uses the local network for communication.n5. pilots remain on the local network for a period of time after appearing on it regardless of rule n2.( - exceptions to these rules in systems with concord present - )e. rule n2 restrictions do not apply in systems where concord is present because:e(a). concord can scan at infinite range.e(b). concord can scan cloaked ships.how pilots access the local network:a1. be friendly towards the sovereign faction.a1(a). for npc corporations this could require various standing requirementsa1(b). for pc corporations this would require an interface for the corporation to provide other corps/alliances access.a2. hack a network node.a2(a). this could include using a hacking module from your ship.a2(b). this could include anchoring an object in space.a3. a pilots that uses the local network for communication would appear on your personal network even if you don't have access to the local network.how this affects high sec systems:h1. all pilots in system are shown in local for pilots on acceptable terms with the sovereign faction.h1(a). pilots with standings below the required amount and pilots in faction war with the sovereign faction would not have access to the network.how this affects low sec and null sec systems with a sovereign corporation:l1. all pilots appearing on the network are shown in local for pilots on acceptable terms with the sovereign faction.l1(a). pilots with standings below the required amount and pilots in faction war with the sovereign faction would not have access to the network.l2. rule n2 would prevent pilots in a deep safe and cloaked ships from appearing on local.how this affects uncontrolled null sec systems:u1. no local network exists - works like wormhole space.discuss: (paraphrasing points brought up in this thread)xorv: allow for a pilot to hack the network to temporarily disable it. (post)"
"so cloaked ships in nullsec stay off the local network? however, since they uncloak to jump into a system or undock etc, they will initially be on the local network until some sort of timer expires and they drop off the network?pirate npc faction nullsec's local network access is dependent on standings with that pirate faction?if the answer is yes to all of those i like your idea.i would add that for player controlled null sec the local network should actually be an anchored structure that can be destroyed and requires frequent fueling.that for low sec good standings with the local npc pirate faction should also give access to a the local network.as you kind of alluded to, it should be possible to use the hacking skill/mod to either temporarily access or disable a local network (maybe not in highsec though, or at least not without the faction navy attacking you)"
"first question: if the cloaked ship came through a stargate they would be in local for a period of time, yes. if they were to come through a cyno or covert cyno and remained cloaked, not necessarily.second: yes, if you were in guristas space and wanted access to their local network, you would need standings with them.i also love the idea of hacking the network to temporarily disable it. i previously hadn't thought of that, and it is something that i feel would add to the potential encounters in null sec.about making the network destroyable or requiring fuel: the local network would be maintained and transmitted by the stargates and stations within a system. i don't feel it would be necessary to require an additional structure (beyond the tcu to gain sovereignty) to control access to the network. since the tcu doesn't require fuel, i don't see a reason for the network access to be any different."
"propose changes to concord. remove automatic concording, replaced with a \"distress call\" button.-highsec:must press \"distress call\" button after being attacked, for concord to show up, after a short timer that's appropriate for system's sec status. afk/bots are free to kill.-lowsec:after sending distress call, much, much longer timer before concord shows up, timer visible to pirate. concord don't \"give chase,\" pirate is free once warped off grid, no need to repackage, etc (whether successfully popping target or not before running out of time and warping off makes no difference).feel free to criticize/flame."
"can't wait to get 100 alliance friends to all distress call in front of jita 4-4. the concord ship spam would be awesome."
"button only works after being attacked. it was stated in original post, although not clearly, sorry about that."
"i'd say the macro's would just adjust their macro, shouldn't be too hard to auto press a button whenever shield drops below 75% or so. so in essence you're only screwing over the people who need to afk for a rl issue, and the freighter pilots who frequently afk auto pilot (because hey, even at the keyboard it can take 30mins+ for a haul.)personally i'd think the idea would cause more issues then it helps. it looks more like a change for the sake of change. and knowing ccp's track record, it'll be bugged and half decent for months before they fix it. by that time god knows how many highsec bears cancelled their account.i'll say it sounds like a fun idea, but in the end it'll cause more issues then it fixes(non)."
"it wasn't actually intended as a block for macros. macros those days are so advanced(color, sound recolonization, etc) there's no way to block them aside from putting pass phrase on everything.i had 2 intentions in mind. first was to make concording mechanics more intelligent, discourage afk at the same time. it lets player decide whether to concord or not. someone rr you, but hit weapons by mistake, there's the choice to not concord. same goes for fof missile hitting the wrong place, webbing freighters for faster warp, ecm burst hitting neutrals when defending convoy during wardec, and many other scenarios. as for afk freighter hauling, it can be alleviated somewhat by being able to web it for fast align by any toon, not necessarily in same corp, without automatic concording. i don't think anything in a game should be completely afk, preventing this is one of the purposes of this proposal, for good or ill.the 2nd intention was to smooth out security difference between high and lowsec(aka, lolsec). pushing the relative risk between them closer together, and populate lowsec without converting it to highsec.as for ccp's bugs... yeah, it's rather sad. but that applies to all proposals on the board. nothing will ever get done if starting from that basis."
"concord? we ain't got no concord. we don't need no concord! i don't have to show you any stinkin' concord!we like low-sec police mechanics the way they are. thanks. go back to carebear heaven. there are far more important things to fix in low-sec than spawning concord. ffs."
"supporting the part about highsec."
"looks like all the potential problems are related to highsec changes. just keep lowsec distress call and keep highsec as is.lolsec is empty, can't get a fight there even after roaming or camping for hours. and the pirates fight each other more often than anyone else. gotta support your pirate alt with another toon with a real profession. distress call might bring enough people to make pirating profession viable. the timer just have to be long enough for the pirate and short enough for the pirated."
"this can be fixed by making rat bounties depend more whether or not there's a serious risk to pvp in the system than on the difficulty of the npc. so, the same rat in a highsec mission could pay out maybe a third as much as that rat in low or nullsec.before you say that missionbears will quit the game, the content of the missions would stay the same; they'd just pay out less in bounties if they're in highsec."
"that's level 4s, where you need to grind standings. anyone can go out to a belt and shoot rats though."
"risk (to pvp) vs. reward, not work (grinding) vs. reward, should determine isk."
"as the game is no longer pure pvp you can't take pvp as a single orientation for isk earning. in fact as we are talking about npc rats a determination about how the pvp vs. reward ratio should be is totally wrong placed. i'd say the topic about bounty hunters could be a place for that."
"i'd support this on one condition, ccp doubles rat bounties in null."
"which is why cruiser rats in hisec should be less, per my point. although as someone who does rat in lowsec, you have very little risk of pvp if you pay attention."
"supported, seems like a good idea to me."
"i think that is a great ideal. 1 plex is basicly $15 bucks for ccp. the more usefull they make plex the better they become."
"supported."
"splendid idea :) has my thumbs up!"
"wow. a good proposal in these forums... supported."
"+just to make a thing clear what we call first month payment is not a first month is a game payment and the first month is for free+so whit a plex you can pay the game and receive the first month for free+the concept that a a veteran or a corp giving a pl"
"while i can see your point of view this creates other problemsme for example, i run 7 accounts, (down from 10) and each account was started using he buddy program then plex card to activate.had i had to use a credit card or other 'real' money transfers then none of my extra's would have come to life, each account is now between 12months & 3years old. so in terms of lost cash just on 12months thats 72 monthly payments ccp would have missed out .i'm just one person but i know of at least 10 others in my alliance who would be in same boat."
"not supported."
"you do realise ccp cant actually buy anything in the real world with your isk? while the islandic krone has dropped a lot in value, its not quite virtual yet :d"
"a maxed out scorpion (level v skills, t1 rigs, 3 sdas in lows) has a racial jam strength of just under 10.4.your double-eccm bs should have a sensor strength of 60-65 (we'll call it 60 to be on the conservative side).that scorpion is \"permajamming\" 3 bs so we'll assume two ecm modules per target, and (by some miracle) that the racial mix that the scorpion has fit exactly matches the targets he wants to jam (already pretty unlikely, but we're trying to give the op the benefit of the doubt).single ecm jam probability is 10.4/60 = 17.3%probability of jam each cycle (with 2xecm) = 31.6%now \"permajammed\" is such a usefully vague term, but let's say op meant that they were jammed for two minutes. two minutes seems quite short even for a small gang fight, but being permajammed for 2 minutes would certainly decide it.so, probability of successful jam for 6 cycles in a row = 0.099%probability of a 6-cycle permajam on three targets = 0.00000987%or, approximately, one in ten million.so the op is the unluckiest pvper in the universe, or he's lying to us. or - more likely - he and his friends are lying to themselves and each other. much easier to yell \"i was permajammed too, ecm is op\" then to admit you messed up and analyse your own mistakes, right?pvp that just consisted of applying damage to tank and seeing who broke first would be the most boring thing in the world. ecm is part of the diversity of options that keeps pvp in eve interesting, complex and tactically deep. stop whining just because you get jammed every now and then. stop lying about how long you were jammed.not supported."
"fraps or it didn't happen.i love these stories about being \"permajammed\" when what they really mean is, \"i was afk during a fleet fight.\""
"idea:tech 1 jammers: chance to jam a single highslot weapon.tech 2 jammers: chance to jam two highslot weapons.you'd need 4 tech two jammers to potentially jam a full 8 rack of weapons. weapons are randomly chosen. only online weapons can be jammed. eccm reduces the chance as per normal rules.personally, i'd say my idea is pretty brilliant and i deserve a cookie for it."
"yeah, was a horror .. but it was also before ecm was changed so that a majority of the power is tied to the ecm boats in the form of bonuses.if it was point based you would need 2-3 non-bonus jammers to take out a single frigate and would have no hope against anything larger without seriously gimping yourself .. i think it at least merits consideration."
"thread cleaned of some trolling. please try to post in a constructive matter."
"you should really update the cons section of that proposal to accurately and fairly reflect a lot of the feedback provided in the assembly hall thread - that this change removes a level of choice/consequence/depth/planning from the character development process that many players feel is a positive aspect of the learning skills (and the loss of that choice/consequence/depth planning is undesirable). i posted this suggestion in the main thread some time ago."
"yes support"
"i approve this proposal."
"supported even tho ccp still (imho) does an awesome job bringing us free and superb expansions.but seriously... don't ever listen to what companies tell in their commercials and presentations.apple and ms are preaching for years that they \"invented\" something new and revolutionairy even tho it's still the same shiet in another color."
"all you guys are the biggest cry babies. \"gimmi this! gimmie that!\"[s=5]boo freakin woo!!!![/s=5]ccp does a great job with all the free expansions and stuff every few months but yet you still complain.i for one am looking forward to incarna and dust514. i am exstatic that dust will not be on the pc. too many cheaters using aim bots and stuff.learn to play the free content instead of constantly complaining. ccp will get to all that stuff when they get to it."
"you got something on your nose."
"i support any csm that raises the question about this topic on the csm meeting.i really do wonder how long it could possibly take to create and implement a new effect that looks the same or better then the old one."
"the more user-friendly interface you have - the more new users will enjoy the game. good ideas."
"supported"
"supported"
"i would love for my rail guns to throw shields. then i could use them to remote repair people.anyway, on the damage penetration bit, since lasers are moving at 100% the speed of light by definition, should they have 100% damage penetration? anyway, despite the dumb guy quoted above, rails need love."
"supported, i'm sick of crappy hybrid weapons"
"not supported if you cant handle learning skills eve isn't the game for you. go play wow with all the other impatient children.if they have to mess with the learning skills give every new player lvl 3 in all learning skills like it said in the evelopedia page i wont be happy but it wont ruin the game either.i wanna be a physicist without going to school!!i wanna be a truck driver without getting my cdl!!"
"how many \"learning classes\" have you taken in real life? in eve if you want to be a physicist you can learn science and physics. we don't have trucks in eve, but if you want to fly an industrial ship you learn the appropriate piloting skills in space ship command. so wtf are learning skills? they're a time sink nothing more, there's no real correlation with learning things in real life. before you post next time i recommend you take a basic reasoning class because like most of the pro learning skill posters your arguments are terrible and make no sense. but if you really think it would help ask at your local college/uni if you can take \"the learning class\" instead."
"yes learning skills should be removed. they kill interest from majority of new players. i tried eve trial like 3 times before i actually started playing it for real. and out of the 3 times i always quit because i didnt want to waste my whole trial for learning skills. first time i tried the game was in 2003 or 2004 and i finally subscribed on 2009 just because i somehow was able to accept the fate of not being able to do a **** for a month or so.so if you want new players, remove them. if you dont care for new players then just leave it like this."
"irony is a *****.kb"
"amazing work, kudos csm :)"
"messenger, i can agree with you on a couple of points. it hurts to lose a ship in eve that you've worked so hard to build by yourself, and it doesn't make sense that concord would pay insurance for ships lost in a criminal act.that being said, this is eve. a dev once said that eve is not built to resemble a cold, dark, cruel universe - it's built to be a cold, dark, cruel universe.you're now in one of the hinge points that discern those built to play eve and those not. if you learn from your mistakes, learn how to survive, and keep a good buffer to provide should your ship get lost, you'll do fine in eve. if you want to whine about how cruel the universe is, this game may not be the ideal one for you.now don't get me wrong, i'm a blue-blooded carebear who doesn't engage in pvp for my own reasons. however, this game is a sandbox, and sometimes bullies will come over and destroy the sandcastle you built, even if it costs them a whuppin from their parents.this is eve. it's not player vs enemy/environment. it's not player vs player. it's everybody vs everybody (eve). it's also not everybody's game, so we won't feel hurt if you decide it's not your game."
"yet another simple thing we all want. hopefully ccp will listen"
"supported"
"this proposal is for singularity/ sisi/ the test server only.^^ this.proposalallocate 5million skills points on sisi on every account, per mirror."
"i had a similar idea, but allocating x amount of sp per mass test participated in, as encouragement.anyways, signed."
"i would probly do testing if that were the case lol."
"works for me... its always an utter pain in the @$$ when you get back into sisi and have skills on tranq but not on sisi."
"man i have wanted something like this for a while."
"brilliant idea!!!"
"quoted for epicness. supported for good idea."
"will benefit ccp a lot as most people will be able to test a wider variety of modules and ships thus increase the potential for bug discovering! supported."
"file this under \"small reward for being involved in testing\"+1 good idea."
"t'amber, best 'amber."
"not ambers idea lol but yea signed"
"this way i will actually want to test"
"something like this would be nice, yes. it's important that people be able to test things with skills they may not have, but 5 mil isn't so much that people will just go crazy and never play on tq."
"consequences will never be the...no, wait, no, you're still going to be an idiot"
"hi .. thanks for the \" nice \" postsit always wonders me that anyone can spare the time torespond with nonsense and invectivesbut i can close this thread as it appears that i ..myself must have been the culprit having confused the price-box with the quantity box ... and even if i to the best of my knowledge can not recollect anything like thatthe petition team did a very thorough investigation on the subject and all facts point to myself ."
"responding to nonsense with nonsense seams logical."
"just like bookmarks, it would be nice if players could drop notes that they've written with the notepad into cans or their hanger.because smack should be persistent."
"posting in another \"i trained 10 alts for pi and now i have to work\" thread."
"i'm for making it less clickfesty... yet it will make the prices fall through the floor if the clicking is removed before a system requiring thinking and tactics, etc, to replace it as a time cost."
"in preparation for tomorrow's csm meeting i have run the numbers and updated the wiki page with the results:"
"great work trebor. a lot of time and effort went into this. it's a damned shame more people couldn't be bothered to take the time to add their votes so that the percentages would have been more meaningful. my pet option - #55 sorting of corp assets - got one vote (mine) even though i hear corp ceos and players responsible for gathering those assets from market orders complain all the time about how tedious and inefficient it is. there are plenty of other ones on that list that should be higher too.ah well. ccp probably won't listen anyway, but again trebor, nice work."
"there is an issue with corporations alliance hopping. right when standings are fully set against thier new alliance, they bail from that one and create a brand new alliance just to cause confusion!it is unnecessary and only done to try and grief and make up for their lack of skill in 0.0."
"strange ppl would pay quite a chunk of change just to cause confusion. besides, if you're confused by something like this, maybe you deserve to be confused."
"what?"
"its better argued and more eloquently put than most of the other idea's in the assembly hall's first page so i'll support it even though i dont know what the **** you mean, i didnt like the bold text part though."
"just go nbsi, instead of nrds. problem solved. no confusion. it is grey? you shoot it. it is orange or red? you shoot it, too. let them waste isk on creating new alliances."
"he is mostlikely trolling over corporation, alliance and organization discussions -> d00m. joins nc.though i am not sure he is an nc or doom. alt."
"doesn't it cost like 1 billion isk to create an alliance?that's a chunk of isk for me, and i wouldn't do it forever.and if the reply is \" 1 billion isk isn't alot of money for them!\", then welcome to eve.you can do whatever you want with isk"
"they are the nc. they have tons of isk from carebearing 23/7."
"up and supported.i would also like to see the skills in the science tree not related to actual research moved into a separate group or merged into one of the other existing groups. (e.g. cybernetics, biology, hacking, maybe astrometrics and the related skills)"
"i am surprise nobody mention that weapon upgrade should have been under electronic. *affecting cpu usage* advanced weapon upgrade should have been under engineering. *affecting powergrid usage* not under gunnery where they are both currently right now.there is no technical reason for grouping both weapon upgrade under gunnery because in the social skill you have skill that require non-social skills.but otherwise i agree with everyone in here."
"supported."
"makes sense"
"the skills menu needs a complete rework, i'm not quite sure the layout your propose is enough. a search feature?i'm thinking more along the lines of how evemon does it... when you click on a skill, it expands what other skills are attached then links to items which are unlocked by learning the skill.it's something that wouldn't take too much time in terms of coding to implement, but severely needs a re-work. the current system is, well... frustrating."
"i agree that a skill menu re-hauling wouldn't be bad, but fixing the groups would help. though tbh, the skills under engineering are so few, without shields, that i can understand why they put them there :p"
"supporting my own topic!y'all know dissenting points are welcome!"
"or the pirate scum could just do something productive rather than be bottom feeders."
"ditto.no to the low sec part."
"my point is that not only should highsec belt rats (and mission npc's) be weaker (and thus pay out less) but the same rat in highsec should pay less than the same rat in low or nullsec.so, say blood corpus dread follower (a rat i made up to illustrate a point) rat pays 60k now. with my reforms, it would only pay 60k in lowsec, and should a blood corpus dread follower turn up in highsec, it only pays 30k."
"that's already the case with belt rats. if you mean missions, you aren't thinking. nerfing mission payout is not going to help pvp because a lot of pvpers rely on it to fund and plex ships. they need that stable, non pvp risky income to replace ships or to buy things from pvp people so they can buy plexes.nerfing mission rat payout is not going to drive people into pvp systems. if it does, they will just join fw and use those missions and focus on lp."
"you can allrdy upgrade links why not exstractors, space ports and factory's ?this will reduse the number of buildings (good for the server) = less click's (good for us)op in features and ideas discussion"
"upgrading extractor and factory - no (because pi stuff of all tiers will drop price drastically) upgrading storage facility and launchpad - yeah, why not.but i don't see the point of posting pi modification ideas anyway (except tweaking what's already implemented, like ui for example), since this is only the first iteration of planetary interaction and we can not know what is ccp planning to do with it."
"supported, i can think of no negative reasons for the player or ccp. and also supported for portrait transfers."
"this is so obvious. nr1 make it so."
"sup."
"i think gunboots changed their mind. i'll just lock it up and then we can all pop down to the pub to relax"
"supporting my own topic"
"+1 for unique delivery.-5 for another \"nerf ecm\" thread."
"you do realize you fail at understanding most simple things ?"
"no"
"i don't know what are you on, but i want some of that stuff.not supported."
"even though i don't support this proposal, you fail to realize that even though you buy and sell plex ingame with isk, that plex was first purchased as a 60-day gtc with real money by someone and then converted to plex to use ingame. hence, in an indirect way, ccp can buy things from your plex."
"remove plex."
"just wait, when you want to change ships you need to walk to another hangar ;)ontopic, advertisement is probably the main reason we're 'getting' incarna. so, no need to advocate this."
"how would you feel if incarna featured real life advertising as a way to support ccp's hardware infrastructure? betrayed. 1) there are ads on the internet, tv, magazines, billboards, walls, sidewalks, you get spammed with ads in your e-mail, regular mail and if you live in a remotely urban environment chances are that you can't walk 200 meters without someone shoving a flier in your hand advertising some total cr*p that you don't want or need. this is a game ffs - a place where you can relax and enjoy the immersion in the virtual world.2) when i play the game, i'm playing the game. there's nothing that can make me think about buying some junk while i'm playing.3) even if i am interested to look at ads inside the game, you must realize that eve is a global game. 90% of the stuff that would be advertised wouldn't even be available to me or anyone living outside u.s. because we all know that mainly u.s. mega stores and hyper capitalistic corporations will be the ones that would buy the majority of ad space.is there any kind of real-world advertising you feel would be appropriate?eve related stuff.if you disagree with any kind of real-world advertisement, would you support station advertisements for eve-rated sites? eve related sites, ccp's promotions, eon, eve store items... those would be just fine. if ccp wants other things to advertise, their marketing dept. should do their job. for example, make a special discount deal with some global computer shop for eve tuned pcs and gaming gear (keyboard, mouse, headsets,...) - but only for customized eve products relevant to the game and not some generic junk or something that's not related to eve (like deodorants)."
"i'll support it if it lowers/removes my subscription fee."
"it wouldn't. the additional revenue would most likely translate to a larger development team working on the game. which would be awesome!that being said... the player base of eve isn't large enough or centralized in any way that would create a good market for advertising."
"don't you mean a larger development team for dust?"
"thats alot of work in this thread"
"soooo a q about the learning skillswhats so bad about them?will we get the sp trained in them spread between skills we want?"
"if we get a refund on skill points already trained in learning skills. i would get a whopping 442,040 sp back to reallocate ala the server downtime recently."
"and what about the ones that put a couple months to train them to lv5 i'd like that sp put into something else if ccp is gunna **** up the attribute system like the rest of stuff the change"
"essentially the problems of low sec are a symptom of the greater problems with eve at large. chiefly unbalanced risk vs reward. and to a lesser extent also alts and as a result the absence of consequences matching actions. there's few reasons to be in low sec, where somewhere else wouldn't be better. for most low sec is somewhere you pass through from high sec to null sec, or it's a kind of battleground where they get to have fun pvping fueled by the isk they made elsewhere, but mostly it's just empty under-utilized space.i don't think there's a fix for low sec that isn't a fix for the whole game and thus major changes. i would start with the following...1) high sec needs to made much less appealing than it is currently as a place to generate isk.* remove most combat missions, complexes, and exploration sites from high sec. some level 1 combat missions could stay for newer players, as well as wormhole entrances for exploration.2) low sec needs to be made both more profitable and somewhat safer a place to generate isk. * all the remaining combat orientated agents moved to low sec* pirate faction stations placed in deep parts of low sec.* some npc stations given more fire power to defend themselves and aligned players, including orbiting navy ships in some cases.* faction, corp, and concord standing now used for station access. (whether a station requires faction or concord standing to dock will depend on the npc corp controlling it, giving some variety in levels of security) require > -2.0 standings with faction and corp to dock. -5.0 or worse station and orbiting npc ships will attack the player3) null sec needs to remain profitable, but also be more attractive to pvp seekers and pirates that currently occupy low sec and aren't part of major null sec alliances.* remove local chat or at least adjust it so it's not such an easy intel tool.* apply faction standing and improved station defense changes above to pirate npc stations in null sec.* change the jump in point from a gate from 15km range to a 150km range in a full 360 degree around the gate. removing what's possibly the ****tiest pvp mechanic in eve zone camping. can still camp gates on the warp to gate side. (applies to all gates not just those in null sec).notes:the goal of standing and station changes is to give player a safe(ish) base to operate from. empire faction aligned players can dock and undock from their mission running stations with a degree of security in low sec. pirates can choose to align with the local npc pirates and have bases to operate out of in low sec and npc null sec. also gives standings and the choices players make with them have more meaning than they currently do.i would like to see standing automatically drag players into faction war, but fw needs a complete overhaul all on it's own.the arguments for and against local chat removal are already well known.the change in the jump gate mechanics i think is needed, because it would encourage players to travel more through low and particularly null sec. more pirates in null sec, is less pirates in low sec. in the absence of prior intel or meta gaming using through away alt scouts, jumping through gates is a basically a roll of the dice where if you come up short and run into a large gate camp your almost certainly going to die. it favors the lazy and the blobers. merely the fact it's poor game play is reason enough to remove it."
"so your idea of the new player experience is:get a cruiser mining in a noob frigate in high sec or trading with your starting 5.000 isk or running level 1 mission and the lose it to a guy with a bs as soon as you enter low sec ?what you want is a different game. but to have that game require as first thing to remove all accumulate wealth and sp from the current players or a new server. both things will remove the \"persistent word\"part of eve and destroy it."
"why not allow players to get a limited version of sov for lowsec systems. where they pay to the respective empire to rent the system and act as the police there. it would allow some of the larger empire corps to move into lowsec and feel comfortable running missions. i'm not talking about fw stuff but other lowsec systems. we already pay for the right to anchor towers in low and high sec systems. so let the players pay to be the police as well. reblier as an example would still belong to the gallente federation but it could be governed by a player corp or alliance."
"no, not at all. if you read the entire proposal you would see that gatecamping in lowsec would become pretty much a waste of time in most cases. so the newbie in a frigate would have to be very unlucky or very newbish/dumb to get killed by a bs the moment they enter low sec. the changes make low sec much safer than it is presently, aside from that it would make low sec way more populated, and obviously an empty system is safer than a crowded one.i believe all the major isk faucets into the game should be in a pvp environment and subject to risk. as is the case with all other sandbox pvp mmorpgs. not as it is with most themepark mmorpgs where pvp and pve are often clearly separated. it has taken innovative strategies by players in eve like mass empire wardecing, suicide ganking, afk cloaking in null sec, can flipping, and ninja looting etc to drag eve away from that eq/wowish model, but really it's not enough. i don't agree that any of your requirements are necessary to make these changes. i also believe that my changes would be a step in making eve feel more immersive and give more substance to eve as a persistent world."
"i read most of it, enought to be... well mad. i agree with a lot of other paying customers here: the thing that was stated over and over from ccp in this meeting was: we are doing \"this\" for the next 18months, no matter how well you try to convince us otherwise, we may start to consider your concerns a year and a half from now.wow, w t f is the csm for? i absolutely commend this iteration of the csm for putting it to ccp and representing the concerns of the player base very well. unfortunately for all of us ccp just gave them the finger. i can promise you that players canceled their subscriptions after reading those minutes. this meeting proved that ccp is going to do what they want regardless of outside influence. and i'm still waiting to hear what is going to make incarna worth 3 years of development, and degraded game quality/polish for the next 18 months...... you can't do anything meaningful outside of your ship, so why has this 'feature' taken up so much time and resources? especially at the cost of previous expansions that have been abandoned in unfinished states?"
"cheers ccp.-t'amber"
"cheers t'amber for another thread about this."
"no, it got changed yesterday. your csm tax dollars at work.the dirty deed was done by ccp capslock, who now bitterly regrets going out drinking with the csm.capslock, those photos of you drinking non-alcoholic beer have been deleted, as promised. honest."
"i was thanking ccp capslock and others for changing it yesterday.-t'amber"
"when you said that you just said that by suicide ganking you lose insurance because you do start the combat. also what insurance company in the right mind would give money to a criminal? it makes no sense at all, and it needs to be fixed"
"what insurance company in their right mind would insure any pod pilot? let alone for a single 30% premium..."
"1.0"
"well detailed, /supported"
"supported your proposal"
"supported"
"i just suck at spelling. but railguns slugs actully have high mass. thats the reason for tugnstan. its very dense. lasers have 0 mass though so they wouldnt perice through."
"i support giving a buff to railguns..they really need a boost.."
"really? perhaps you'd care to explain how what i said is in any way ironic? or are you just another dumb troll that i ought to ignore?"
"/ supportedyou know when i was a newbie i wanted to train for some ships, a little catalyst later a thorax and since i wasn't in a corp no one told me about learning skills... so i had wasted all 1.6m sp bonus in training skills i could have got 1000% faster if i trained learning skills.reimburse or just make the sp vanish. dont care but its completely stupid to train skills that will make you train other skills faster.reading a book doesn't make you read the next one faster"
"issue passed 5/4, after much spirited debate.if ccp does decide to change learning skills, we hope they will do it in close consultation with the csm."
"lequil, 33, 34, 35"
"with so many of eve's pvpers spending most of their time in fw, i'd love to see their participation in the alliance tournament."
"sweet"
"handy.along with align to bookmark."
"probably fourth of fifth time for the past two years. yess! ccp implement it at last!"
"seems like a reasonable suggestion to me, with obvious benefits to ccp."
"brilliant idea"
"there is no reason whatsoever not to do this"
"supported"
"supported"
"sounds good. supported."
"actually there is, it just happens to be the same reason as not maxing out everything for everyone.ccp freely give skills when they need something specific tested, if a large chunk (5m is a bloody large chunk!) is added to everyone it is going to be unproductive sessions with lol-tastic cap fights all over.by all means, add the 200k or whatever it comes out to before a mirror is live after being snapped, but 5 million? bad idea.not supported, way to high."
"supported"
"likee."
"i'm a fan"
"this is a good idea and shouldn't be too hard to implement."
"not too much to explain here...it will be nice to have some npc run games to fall back on if you're at a station with not many people. i also think that a lot of people would enjoy these games as well besides the suggested \"texas hold'em\". at any rate, i think adding these games can only add more variety to the sorts of gambling games available."
"i 'believe' the problem with this is the number of gambling laws around the world"
"drop a can and name it."
"not a bad idea.. but seriously.. you got evemail for that... :p"
"posting in another \"i trained 10 alts for pi and now i have to work for isks\" thread."
"not supported.if you want isk then work for it.perhaps petition to limit accounts to only 1 character to be able to get involved in pi or datacore research.no other game gives so much freebies for so little effort and that needs to be changed in order to avoid pussiefication of the game."
"this issue has been deferred until the next csm meeting so that csms can do a filtering pass on the results of the crowdsourcing. afaict the csm is in favor of the proposal but we want to take the time to present the best possible list to ccp."
"bump"
"i wouldn't mind a name change. i always regretted not giving my character a last name :("
"can anyone post a constructive feedback to a stupid proposition that has already been discussed and flamed for years and has become a troll for itself in the process?use eve-search and find your answers.not supported btw...p.s.while you're at it, you can post a \"can we paint our ships\" proposition again. just saying... it's never too late to necropost an idea that's already been discussed."
"my personal oppinion towards this finds itself in the following 2 posts:and...now let me explain it.as stated above most scamms are either done by disposable alts or as the lets call them \"real\" thiefs among the usuals do via bought charackters that after the theft often just get resold with a profit on top for skilling.making it more costly than charackter transfer would cost those thiefes more than long time charackter trading so kinda work in the \"victims\" favor.however i also see huge problems with it. exspecial big alliance corporations recruit after considering killboard stats aswell which than could be transfered if you arent careful enough to check the times.personaly i would much rather see a way to \"free\" names of very old charackters or corporations that are since years no longer in use, that could stop all this xxnamexx or corporation / alliancename/tickerdot crap."
"bump"
"supported. it just makes sense, and it shouldn't take much time to discuss, decide, and implement."
"supported."
"to me it seams that the only players who dislike this idea are the pirates themselfs , and they can go drink a can of quaff some where else. honistly if your in low sec and you cant pop the indy thats calling for help before concord gets there \"your doing it wrong\" as well as the fact that concord in low sec wont chase you again \"your doing it wrong\" and so freaken what about if one or two managed to get concord to show up and you cant pop them , guess what theres probly gona be 10 more around some time soon so in a way this helps the pirates out, much more targets for hunting"
"if the upgrade costs the same as adding another.. akaa tier 2 extractor has the same pg/cpu usage as 2 t1s and the same output.. it just saves clicks.. wouldn't increase available resources."
"yes exactly"
"while i will have t say goodbuye to my cool loocking branched networks, if i heave to click less, sure."
"as the proud owner of 15 coloneys i would love to see the some 234 clicks i have to make to keep the flow going reduced down to a much more managable number"
"currently, you are only able to train 1 character per account. what i am proposing, is to allow for the training of multiple characters. however, ccp has most likely done this because with the current state, if you want to train multiple characters at a time, you need multiple accounts, which means multiple subs, thus more money for ccp.what i propose, is that ccp allows us to pay a extra fee to train multiple characters per account. so the sub fee is $15 per account per month, and that allows you to train one character. what i want to see happen, is the ability to pay, say $5 or $10 more per month to train an additional character per account. so $5 or $10 per additional character. so if you wanted to train all 3 character slots, it would be $25 - $35 per month depending on how much is charged. the only snag i see, is how it would be done with plex's.. the solution for that, is to add a system to designate a main character per account, so the base plex gets applied to that character. then, add another item in game similar to plex, but a little cheaper, that you use for the +1's on the account, not the main. of course, people will say \"why not just make another account\", but some people don't want to have multiple accounts. the only way i can see this being abused, is if people were to mass train characters, then sell them for isk/rl cash. but its really no harder to do now. it just requires more accounts, and a little more money than i am proposing.either way, i think this would be a good way for ccp to make a little extra $$$ from customers, and some people may really benefit from it.discuss.."
"i read the title and instantly went \"no\".after reading the proposal i'm leaning more towards yes. but not entirely.the extra character training should cost less than a full account as one cannot run 2 chars off the same account (or more).however, i'm still very unsure if i'm liking this idea or if i find it a silly idea...sorry ts. i just don't know."
"hmmm... an interesting idea. training multiple characters on one account for what amounts to another subscription.this would allow players to diversify their character account... exploring multiple \"skill tree\" avenues without having to go the more roundabout method of setting up another account.i could support this if an addendum is added: multiple accounts would not be allowed per person.withholding vote for the moment."
"i think we found the most stupid idea in the whole eve online forum."
"what you've just proposed is that ccp gives up a big chunk of their monthly profit which is not going to happen.the only way this could happen is that you must pay additional $15 per every character you want to train (a full subscription), but then again, you could already do it now with a second account. but even if they consider adding $15 per trainable character, they must do a total overhaul of:- gtcs- plexes- database backend- paying options- automatic credit card billing system- ...so, just create another account. it's much more easy and it doesn't waste anyone's time."
"not necessarily. there should be some people out there that would pay for training more characters per account, but not willing to go as far as setting up 2nd account. there are also many (majority of multiple account holders?) who don't use their multiple accounts purely for training, but also play (dualboxing) over them. 2 chars from one account can't log on at once. if both of those groups are large enough, ccp is looking at a gain in profit, potentially a large one."
"that is the answer i expected fro mmost people. you are right hotugh, it is just as easy to train another character on a new account. tbh, i am not exactly sure why i came up with this idea in the first place.... i still do think it is another way for ccp make money, mostly because if people want ot dual box, they use two accounts. but if they want to train say a hauler alt, they can do it on one for less money. or if they want to say hav ea titan pilot and cap pilot on one account, and then another account with a cap pilot or sub cap pilot, they can train all of the characters at once instead of only 2."
"ok put this idea together after watching a few gundam shows and a few other shows as well the weapons pod drone class.required modules:pod launcher - high slot item only useable on industrial class ships (includes transports and orca)cycle time: 15 secondseffect: deploys x loaded weapon pods at a random location in a orbit 3k around your ship, holds x+1 w-pods but instantly loads more. x is skill dependant but will always be 1+xthe weapon pods themselvesthere are 4 sizes of w-pod respective to current weapons and they range in size from 2-5 m3 in size. in respect to use they are like sentry drones, they dont move just shoot, they will last for 3 shots which are fired in quick succession or x*12 seconds with x being skill based.they will show up in drone control so you can tell them what to shoot but will keep firing should you leave grid, the w-pods like all drones can be shot and have very little hp as they are essentially the ammo and the aiming device with a few thrusters to actually aim. should a w-pod be launched with out a designated target it will aquire one itself based on who has aggressed you or who you have aggressed pros-industrial specific pilots will be able to handle combat-a group of indies is no longer helpless if attacked, some may be packing-unlike regular drones there is no limit to the number of w-pods you could have deployed, though due to their die off timer or fire count you could have max of 20 and no moreconsdue to the ammos size can only be used on industrial ships and unless modified for cargo will run out faster than other weapon types, a standard cruse missile is 0.05 m3 while the pod that carries three is 4 m3requires the highly coveted high slot that most indies only have one of.smart bombs would easily dispatch whole groups of w-pods"
"sorry, but... i can see this being abused to hell and back... especially since you have not defined how powerful such \"drone pods\" would be.would they be on par with say, warrior iis in their damage dealing abilities? less than? your intention is to give industrial ships the ability to \"fight back\"... against what? frigates? cruisers?if they were to be weaker than warrior iis, then they would not possess the ability to \"defend\" the industrial that is using them (remember, even a well tanked industrial will pop fairly easily). if they are just as strong or stronger than warrior iis then it would essentially be giving industrial ships way more power compared to \"pure\" combat ships... especially en mass.this is similar to an idea that was posted in the features and discussions board (where you may have wanted to test the merit of your idea first) where someone asked if industrials could be given [small] drone bays with which to defend themselves. to me, this just seems to be a more roundabout way of asking for that.not supported."
"nice idea but i bit over the top. why not use sentry drones they are allready in game.or gun towers in your cargo hold. these to are allready in game. add a gun tower skill and done..i do a gree that industrial pilots could use some more ways to protect them selves though"
"if you whant indies to protect themselves, jsut give them drone bay. simple."
"if you want indies to protect themselves, just don't travel without an escort. simple."
"someone who don't know game mechanics. unless you bring a whole blob with you and gank the whole camp instantly, they would just pop the hauler fast and deal with your \"escort\" afterwards."
"ecm? logistics? any of that ringing a bell?"
"won't work. camp will still bust your indy first and fast. there's a reason ppl don't \"escort\" indies. only viable option is transport."
"dont take this the wrong way but im pretty sure that i have actualy answered this questionif that does not explain it here goes, if you use the \"cruse missile\" w-pod it will fire 3 cruise missiles total at its target in quick succession, so about a 2-4 second delay between shots, then blow up. as i dont use t2 drones i cant compare them.and secondly there are 4 sizes of w-pod ( kinda like the weapons we allready use) and they will target there size class first ( small w-pod vs frig, large vs bs)"
"supported. this should be in page 1."
"ok there has been a lot of talk about pi and various ideas for it, so i figured id two in my 2 centsfirst part may surprise you, triple all command centers power grid and cpu, before you blow a gasket there a reason. all colonies will be required to defend themselves from space born attackers.every building you own will project a 50km control zone around itself that blocks neutral or hostile factions from placing buildings, links produce a 25k area around themselves. when a player places a new colony they may place it for self or allied, self will make it so only your buildings can go down, allied allows fellow corpmates or alliance members into your control zone. should multiple players build within the same area their defences can work together.if the player placed the colony for self then only his control area is covered by his planetary shields, however should he place the colony as allied his generators will support the area covered by any control zone of a corp/alliance member on the planet. and conversely theres will cover his area. colonies in high sec have the option to be placed as co-share and indeed all currently established ones will be set to that , in essence they will not project a control zone. until changed by their owners.to that end new structures will be needed pi defence networks introduce 4 new structure types, defence commands, ammo depots, planetary batteries, and shield batteries. while you do not need to route defences they must still be linked.defence commands- these structures control and regulate planetary shields, each structure increases the recharge rate of the colonies shieldsammo depots- these structures create and distribute terrestrial ammunitions from basic elements found on any planet type, the more of these structures you have the faster your planetary batteries ammo supplies will refill. due to the nature of terrestrial munitions they have no use in space and hence most colonies dont even bother exporting them, even to other planets.planetary battery- these are more or less turrets based on platforms that use terrestrial ammunitions produced by ammo depots, like there space bearing counterparts there are 4 types of batteries and 4 sizes, each battery starts out small and is upgraded bigger. unlike pi materials you do not need to route ammo to a planetary battery as this is automatic. when first created a planetary battery starts to receive ammunition until its stores are full as long as an ammo depot that the player controls exists. the best way to think of it is like a ships capacitor, as the planetary battery fires it uses up its stores of munitions until depleted or the target is destroyed. having more ammo depots increases ammo production so it is possible to make enough ammo to sustain weapons fire indefinitely. planetary shields  each structure increases the total hp of the shield barrier that covers your control range, and if an \"allied\" colony that of your allies, while under the protection of a shield all colony structures are none targetable. colony combatwhen you want to engage in combat with a planets colonies you must warp to planetary bombardment range this is more or less the only instance eve will ever have but not really as anyone can enter it. when you warp to bombardment range you load into a closer up view of the planet one in which you can fly around completely but your never more than 300k from the planets surface. when this is happening people in the normal eve view will see combat effects played around the planet but there are no targetable ships, they can however warp to bombardment range as well and attempt to save their colonies.once a hostile fleet is within bombardment range they will see all the structures on the planet as well as a bubble around any shielded ones, shooting it will eventually break the shields. at this time the hostiles may target and destroy any structures they chose."
"dev posts in the forums need to be more accessible either in the eve insider tab or as news items. valid news worth posts should not have to found and posted in dev blogs or player blogs because a lot get missed or get posted weeks after the fact. one salution would be to flag dev posts and allow players to jump directly to them in the forums instead of searching 30+ pages of text.or they could be forwarded for screening as news items to the character login page.either method would go along way to show that developers are communicating with players on a daily basis."
"+1 for adding a jump to next dev post -button in all threads. most of the time it would be just convenient to have, but in the big threadnaughts such a feature is a must."
"it would make it a lot easier to find they could post in announcements or make a new forum."
"dev posts in the forums need to be more accessible either in the eve insider tab or as news items."
"valid points but it requires digging thru the tabs to find them. the first thumbs up says it best; finding the best response in all the pages of text needs to be made simpler or new people to the game will take one look at the first page of the forum see no ccp response assume there never is one and come back months later like i did when they have the time to read pages and pages of text and figure out how this forum work..having the posts grouped by author is nice but has no context.even a flag saying ccp has posted on this issue would be better then nothing at all.a blog focused only on dev posts is the only way to do the posts justice. best example blues posts make up most news items on mmochampion.com.even if this is used only as a guide to use the forums this thread does it's job"
"my post count just went down by 50 wtf you guys"
"none of those \"cons\" have come supported by reasoned argument. the notion that learning skills add any kind of real depth to eve was seen as absurd by most posters. it would be accurate to say there is a significant minority opposed to changing the learning skills, but they've yet to come up with much in defense of that position. however, i welcome csms or better yet ccp staff to read that assembly thread and see for themselves the arguments for and against the removal of learning skills."
"that looks about right yes.then you get however many sp you have in the learning skill tree to use on other skills."
"plus whatever extra sp you earned by having higher attributes compared to a peer that didn't train them, so it's not like you lose anything in the process."
"all of them have. they've been handwaved away with \"nuh unhhh!!!\" (like you just did) but that doesn't change their support. the fact is that the 'pro' arguments not only lack support, the fact that they lack support is noted. claiming something that you don't know is true as a \"pro\" point and then saying \"oh yeah, and we need some facts to prove that this even exists\" is... odd. as for simplifying skill planning by removing variables, seriously? in eve? we can also simplify training by cutting three races out of the game. or maybe just take away the long/short weapon dynamic and give each race one generic weapon. after all it's confusing having to choose which to put sp's into and when, to say nothing of how much time it takes to specialize in multiple weapon systems, and as we all know complexity, specialization and more-choices-than-time are all totally against the core nature of eve. eh? eh? removing complexity and choice that leads to varying development paths is a pro, in eve? since when? and, of course, the 'cons' section does not include the very real fact that removing learning skills removes depth and choice as well as the tradeoff between short and long term profit. it's a solution in search of a problem and hopefully ccp ignores that specific proposal."
"not our fault that people didnt train these skills we learnt about them did the math and worked it it would be better to train them so we did others maybe new about them but put it off and didnt train now in relity the person who didnt train the learning skills now are better off or gunna be because they spent all sp on other skills and are gunna get better/equal attributes to the ones that did train them so they infact lost no time and gain quite abit of timenow the ones that did train em sure we gained time from training them but thats because we put the few months into training them to get sometyhing out of it now that specail reward of training the skills will be taken away from us depending how they change it and they are taking a big choice out of the game which is to train or not to train so basicly we loose that 1-2 months of training + specail prize we get for training them (as in shorter time for skills) so yes we are at a loss and i demand my sp put into other stuff if they change it"
"what utter rubbish, maybe you need to reread that thread. how is removing learning skills and replacing the lost stats (or at least most of them) not a huge boost to new players pursuit of their first \"career path\" in eve?no one can accurately empirically prove something like the causes of new player retention or departure from eve. that said there's a great abundance of anecdotal evidence that it is the case, but obviously that alone doesn't prove the point. still we can logically surmise that a great many players would be put off playing eve because they essentially are pushed into not playing for the first few months of their subscription. don't deny that's the case there's even video footage of a ccp employee saying he played counter strike for the first few months of eve while he trained these skills, and said words to the effect that it was terrible game design. this ******ed argument has been slammed over and over again. there's little choice involved in learning skills. saying there is a choice is like saying we have a choice to either fly in a plane or swim from new york to london... sure there's a choice of a kind, but when everyone chooses the one choice it's no longer a choice of any meaning. learning skills are rather simple actually, complexity is neither their problem nor an attribute of learning skills. i don't think i'll respond to the rest of your nonsense in the quote as anyone with half a brain knows it has no relevance to removing learning skills. learning skills add depth???? this is a \"very real fact\" is it? how so? there maybe a choice in whether you take them to 5, but other than that what is this depth you speak of? maybe you mean depth in terms of game time? it adds more time sink that's the only \"depth\" i see...hate to break it to you (well actually i kind of enjoy telling you), but ccp already agrees with those of us that think learning skills should be removed. it's only their sluggish pace at fixing long standing issues and fear of the rage of lamers like you that has prevented learning skills being dumped long ago.to the csms presenting this to ccp:let ccp know they're going to get anger either way, so just do what they think is right for the game. it annoys me far more that they would cave into players like finnagain and his ilk based on fear of their negative reaction than the actual prospect of learning skills remaining. the later just means i won't encourage friends and family to play eve, not that any likely would in it's current form. the former tells me that game is pretty much doomed due to developer attitude, and i should consider canceling."
"ahhh, the argument by nuhn unnnhh!convincing.other things that would boost new players:-give new players [racial] titan v and their own titan. give them several replacement titans if they lose those, too. it's essential for eve that some players not have an advantage over others if it's the result of their investment of resources that earns them that bonus.-give new players all 800 billion isk. if they spend it, give them more in increments of 100 billion. after all, there is really no choice between making isk and doing other things, since everybody makes isk to some degree or another, and so it's not a choice at all. free isk for all new players.-make them all jedis (or has that been done before?)of course i'll deny that that's the case as it's stupid. how long does it take to train warp disruptors and ab's? (hint: not long)bonus points for \"but a dev did something so that proves that nobody can play the game without waiting for months!!!\" i think you mean that tards have flailed at it again and again while actually doing nothing to debunk it.is there choice involved? yes.do the choices allowed balance long and short term rewards and expenses? yes.is there anything you've said which rebuts that? no.using your same 'logic', we also must do something about having tacklers in fleets, since all fleets have them if they don't want their enemies to warp off. and dps, since all fleets have dps if they want to shoot folks. and mining lasers/drones, since all miners have them. and isk, since all traders use that, and...and train analogies to at least lvl ii (unless that's too hard. if so just get ccp to give you that skill). swimming the atlantic is a physical impossibility, but training skills without sp's in ls's is not, at all. it'd be a choice between, say, spending $100 on a train between new york and la versus spending $1,000 on a commercial jet airliner between new york and la.and then some muppets demanding that everybody be given free airfare since, after all, there must be no choice at all involved since almost nobody takes amtrak these days. ahhh, the argument by excessive punctuation. also a classic.yes, learning skills add depth to a character's profile, as the degree they are taken to govern how quickly sp's are gained. just like implants. but there is less rage over +4's... and ~gasp!~ you even need to train a skill to be able to use +4's as opposed to +3's. why, that's no choice at all. right, eh?or maybe all new players should be given cybernetics v and over 9000 +5 implants for each stat. i mean, that'd probably help new player retention, right?if there are learning skills in the game, which are totally optional and completely unnecessary to having an enjoyable and rewarding time playing eve, you'll still refrain from encouraging family and friends from playing eve. a game that you've been playing for nearly half a decade, during which time learning skills have existed for 100% of the time and which haven't stopped you from playing the game year, after year, after year, after year.kind of a \"do what i say, not what i do\" kind of a tack.because we all know that the quality of eve is determined by how fast you can amass sp's.but it'd totally be much cooler if every new player could start as a jedi. how could that go wrong?"
"rather than wasting my time responding to all that trash i'll simply ask you a question or two.if learning skills are so great for eve and should be kept, why not add learning skills for learning skills? lets call these new skills \"childhood development\", they would be a series of skills ccp adds to the game that takes 6 months to fully train, both prerequisites for basic learning skill and that without which all other training time is doubled.it would add \"depth\" and \"choice\" to eve wouldn't it?the new \"child development\" skills wouldn't really be necessary skills to train surely?not having \"child development\" skills might mean ccp is about to give cybernetics and titan v to new players right?jedi's will be introduced into the game was this your attempt at digging up dirt on me for some lame ad hominem attack to add to the rest of your nonsense. aren't you sneaky... unfortunately, you forget that a player's character creation date or first post does not mean they've been playing all that time."
"ahhh, the argument by sure you showed that every single point i made was full of crap, but... nuhn unnnnhhh!highly cogent. learn about eve, yes? there are learning skills that effect other learning skills. memory and intelligence effect the tier 1 skills, tier 2 have other skills. and learning effects them all. interesting fallacy you're falling back on now, though. if there is a good level of depth and choice involved, why, we must need to add even more! of course, it wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing, but your example of skills that only effect learning is ******ed as all learning skills effect the totality of sp acquisition. pretending that something new not being added is the same as a long-standing game feature being removed for absolutely no good reason is part for the course for your argument.speaking of the rationalizations that you are using in the place of actual reasoning, you seem to have accidentally forgotten each and every single one and coincidentally tried to handwave away the refutations once your rationalizations were shown to be total bull... that was pretty lucky. yet another bit of fail, eh? please learn the definition of ad hominem. it doesn't, in fact, mean pointing out that you're full of crap and engaging in blatant hypocrisy and that you don't even believe your own nonsense about how people shouldn't play the game due to learning skills (which, let's face it, is a total tard claim even if you weren't trolling anyways). of course, your evasion is even lamer then the claim that showing you were trolling is an \"ad hominem\". whether or not you played continually is hardly relevant to the fact that after nearly half a decade you are still playing eve, despite your bluster about how horrible eve is due to having the option to increase your rate of acquiring skillpoints and how people shouldn't play eve."
"having skills just for the sake of skills is stupid and poses an unnecessary barrier for new players.i hated doing them on my main and did so for all of my alts. yes they are a choice, but not a very voluntary one if you want to be able to compete so i will vote for whatever measure is taken to remove them or diminish their influence."
"they're not skills for the sake of skills, they're skills for the sake of time. time is the only real resource that's inelastic in eve; with time you make isk, complete missions, kill sov structures, whatever, but the amount of time in a day cannot be modified. learning skills are essentially no different than implants. should those be removed from the game too?nor does the objection about 'extra time' for noobs hold water. no matter how fast skills train with a 'boosted attributes' '\"fix\", it will still take a significant amount of time for new players to, say, fly fully t2 fit battleships. and those who can afford implants will have an advantage over those who cannot. and those who can afford better implants....there's no barrier to playing. if you're new to the game and want to get into a profession immediately, then train for that. if you want to keep your sp's/hour as high as possible, then train for learning. it's 100% volitional, and not a necessity at all. you can have exactly as many skills as a player with maxed learning skills, it just takes a bit longer. in point of fact, it takes years until a full investment in learning skills sees the time invested rewarded by time savings. there is no actual barrier, just a perceptual one. i started the game and barely trained any skills, found a lowsec corp, got into 0.0 pvp, participated in an alliance that built and lost an outpost... all without putting more than a few 10's of thousands of points into the learning group."
"it appear that you have forgotten something in your proposal:i can suppose you mean one or more of the 0.0 suggestions, probably the one abut jump in point that will make defending 0.0 sovereign space almost impossible:but you stated specifically that it is for 0.0 only and, beside that, a newbie with a frigate will be one vollied by a sensor boosted bs with guns, especially a minmatar one. as they use to say, been there, got that. in the time your newbye frigate get in warp the pirate bs at the gate, so 150 km from him would have him locked and destroyed. so you are already rick and simply want to deny new player the possibility to make isk? you really want to push the new players in a situation where they will need to do level 1 missions or to go to low sec to get a combat worthy ship and the skillbooks but at the same time you want to keep a<U+FFFD><U+FFFD> you already have so you can keep a huge advantage?pftt."
"guess you didn't read it then, although i might have confused a skim reader by putting it in the null sec section. bolded and underlined for your benefit...in regard to the sniper example you gave, a frigate should be able to warp out before a bs even sensor boosted one can lock and shoot it. however, if i'm wrong and that's an issue make it 1500km. the point is to get fights off gates, particularly where you jump into a system. as it stands most pvp in eve occurs at or near gates, which frankly is pretty ****ty.as to it making it harder to defend null sec sov space... good! null sec needs a shake up, and denying nap crazy zergers the use of zone camping with their big blobs can only be a good thing. i specifically want to attract pirates and other current low sec pvpers to go into null sec and cause a ruckus, rather than have them all bottled up in a handful of low sec entry points making empire space dweller falsely believe all of low sec is like stepping into a john carpenter movie.my goal is definitely not to deny a new player isk, it is in part to deny older players the means to separate their isk generation from pvp. i would be very happy to see a fresh server, but there's no way that's happening, most of what we propose on these forums is unlikely to happen as it is. i'm also certainly not trying to horde wealth of my own, i only have about 80 mil isk in my wallet atm, which is a pitiful amount."
"so:1) you don't have read my comment 2) apparently you routinely put suggestions under the wrong heading, as you consider an \"obvious fact\" that something under 0.0 is meant for low sec. so \"dear\" xorv, what of the other suggestions under 0.0 are meant for low sec? evidently you have forgotten how slow a new player with a low skill in evasive maneuvering can be. independently from you goal, that would be the result of your proposal. old players will keep the ships and isk made before the change and use them to make more, new players will not have a way to gather enough isk to get on equal footing without selling plex, i.e. resorting to out of game resources to be capable of playing. even if you have a \"goal\" you should consider what will be the consequences of the method you propose to get there. apparently you don't have considered them."
"venkul, i'm sorry the way of presented my ideas caused you so much confusion. i wanted to separate the ideas for high, low, and null security space, but yes there was some cross overs. however, every one was stated as such. basically it was just the gate idea and the faction standing changes to docking and being shot at by npcs that applied outside of the category i placed them in. i have considered the consequences and came to different conclusions than you did. older players and corps that have been able to milk eve through t2 bpos and stuff like that will always have an advantage over new players, regardless of whether changes like i suggested are implemented or not.you seem to be under the impression that isk generation would come an abrupt halt with my suggestions. mission running for instance is doable as it is in low sec, and my proposals would make it easier, it's just that presently in terms of risk/effort vs reward high sec mission running is much more appealing, albeit also far more boring."
"sigh. so where is the suggestion to make scanning ships in mission impossible? a noob player trying to do mission in low sec will lose so many ships that he will quit.your thought processing is that of an old players that know how to mitigate the risk. not that doing missions in low sec will ever be interesting with the current scanning system, but a old player can mitigate the risk. you are asking a new player that hardly know how the overview work and that will have a hard time to survive a level 2 mission in a cruiser to use a directional scanner to detect the probes, keep an eye on local for possible pirates and at the same time manage the npc. and to top that with little isk to replace the ships he will constantly loose.stop trying to balance the game only for old players and think what your proposal will do to new players.and no, i wasn't particularly \"confused\" by your proposal, i was pointing out how badly you had done it.if something is meant for low sec or lower it should be placed under low sec and possibly it should be marked as \"low sec and lower\". the strength of a proposal depend on the presentation, not only on the basic idea.and i stay my opinion: to work your proposal require to restart eve. as it is it will widen the gap between new and old players by a too wide margin."
"the guy above me has a good idea. i'd like to add a few of my own, for lowsec and beyond:-add agents to concord with missions related to player requested security operations. let players run missions for concord.-add more drugs (drug related sites, etc) ffs. there should be drugs to boost just about anything, rather than the limited amount we have right now. increase the number of drug slots per player.-add bribery as a possibility to the factions in any possible lowsec area. say you'd like a station built in a lowsec system that currently dead and empty. offer the faction that controls the lowsec system 5 bil to build one there.or turn off the gate guns for 5 mins, or anything along those lines that would improve the 'happening' factor of lowsec. right now, it aint happening."
"this is awesome"
"yes it is"
"...that's just a terribly asinine statement. the csm delegates aren't devs. they aren't employed by ccp. they most likely don't even have access to the codes that are affecting the lag, and if they did, they wouldn't know what to do with it. did you mean 'how about you just tell ccp to fix the lag...', or are you just *****ing at them over anything you can get your hands on because it's the 'in' thing to do?"
"i can't say it was a smooth ride in csm 2 (with pattern and the pos exploit), but i really must commend csm 5 on their dedication and efficacy in this term. kudos guys, and keep up the good work.as to whether eve is dead, i don't think eve will ever die - some peoples' lives are tied up in it. however, this might be worse than the t2o event, and only time will reveal the truth about that.like the current csm, i love this game and don't want to see it die. if you guys need anything i can be of help with, just let me know."
"i have an idea, instead of making one single insurance company make many that charge different amounts and insure different types of attacks. say a pirate insurance would insure you if you suicide gank someone but is more expensive because they're on the run from concord and need more to fight them off. or a mining company that only protects mining barges and exhumers. that sounds like a good comprimise"
"if ccp took the time to achieve excellence and fix flaws in their shiny new content, i would be more than happy to wait longer for shiny new features, while i'm content to play with with the more polished, less flawed features previously implemented."
"i have 17 months to spare , can i help ?"
"as a lead software engineer, i have to echo these observations."
"great suggestions. would certainly make searching for courier contracts far more user-friendly."
"this is hardly a worthy idea of diverting development resources to it when there are a vast amount of other thing that are more worthy of attention./not supported"
"do you come to these forums just to troll? honestly, every post of yours i have read seems to be there specifically to annoy or anger people, typed completely in bold.true, there are more important issues to deal with, but that's no reason to not support a relevant (and rather good) idea. this isn't a forum specifically for issues of only the highest priority."
"personally, i like the learning skills. your suggestion is simply \"remove them and make skills train faster.\"i find that the learning skills are a bit of a tactical choice, and i agree with whoever said that learning skills are a part of character specialization. sorry, i do not support this idea."
"learning skills should go away, but i propose a slightly different implementation. it's intended to be fair to players while changing as little of the existing system as possible. the resulting attributes are identical to what you can get in the present system with fully-trained learning skills, and you won't need to grant a free remap either. implant effects remain unchanged.essentially, the idea is to remove all the learning skills, boost the base attributes and keep the 1.1x multiplier effect (but not as a skill.) here it is in detail:1) record the number of skill points each character has trained in the learning category. also record the cost of those skill books.2) remove the learning (2% per level) skill.2.1) instead, the 1.1x multiplier effect is retained for all characters as though they have the skill at level 5.3) characters that have never remapped simply have +10 added to each base attribute.4) characters that have remapped attributes have their base attributes set to old base + respective skills (not including the 1.1x multiplier), and then:4.1) characters who still do not have the full complement of 89 base attribute points have the balance added to their highest attributes, in accordance with the (new) remap limits: while (you have points to add) { add +1 to the highest base attribute below 25 } 5) remove the remaining learning skills.6) refund skill points and isk to characters based on <1>.advantages:* no change to ultimate attribute levels* no change to implant effects.* no change to net training speed * characters' investment in learning skills is rewarded proportionally.* no free remap needed.disadvantages:* remapping feature must be modified to accommodate the new range of base attributes.* new code may be needed to make the 1.1x attribute multiplier universal.* some changes needed to character creation and npe"
"love this idea."
"as long as there is an option to enable or disable them, i fully support this. wonderful idea."
"more comments pls."
"now i can finally test ships without the endless grinding just to fly an intercepter. by the time i get a sisi update and train for it, i get mirrored.5 mil sounds reasonable, (but i probably will be one of those peeps with a chimera for lolz )"
"100% support. this would be a great way to test content that players otherwise don't have the skills for."
"hate training cap ships over and over again whenever ccp decides to update the mirrors. /signed"
"programming time spent on something that's for sisi only? no thanks. that time would be better spent on something that would actually be useful to tq."
"programming? are you mad?they already have the system in place, do you recall the free 100,000sp you got because of the long downtime? well all they need to do is add 5 million onto your sisi account when it mirrors. i highly doubt it would require anything apart from something like \"reward all - 5,000,000sp\" 5mil sp isn't even that much especially if you're afraid of all those cap ships that might spring up... because 5 mil will get you all the support skills to actually be useful?supported to the end, its the least ccp can do to encourage people onto sisi."
"1.0"
"yar."
"afaik as long as it's virtual currency there is no legal issue except in the most ******ed countries that probably wouldn't allow the game anyway."
"sure, why not? it is a virtual currency in a game after all. no legal trouble.might aswell add: lier's dice, monopoly, joker, 5-finger filia (ouch), chess, checkers, and a civilization 3 like game while your at it."
"\"if you're reading this...get out of my can!\"the potential for hilarious creative use far beyond my feeble abilities is simply astounding...however i feel it is unnecessary. dunno, i'm sort of on the fence about this one.yeah, decided, \"why not?\""
"bookmarks are widely used for this already, but i think they induce quite a bit of lag. supported.also if the notes were electronically signed, you could setup some kind of tradeable contract, enabling stuff like ious.also, the rp community could greatly benefit from this, enabling them to write reports and books."
"sure, seems usefull."
"yep"
"right now doing a mining operation is simply unprofitable with the way hostile can hump in system and warp to your belt and insta-kill you on the spot.industrial mining ships and haulers need to have better agility when dealing with hostiles. to fix this i propose that for each non-blue in your system the mining barge and haulers get a +5% to agility to help it get out before the hostiles warp in on you. this would have stacking penalties and only work in low sec and 0.0"
"no. 0/10"
"what does no.0/10 mean?"
"it means they consider you a troll and a bad one (gave your troll a rating 0 of 10)i have to agree with their assessment.don't troll assembly hall."
"oh so because someone doesn't like my proposal it gives them the right to call me a troll? **** you! he is the troll coming in my thread and trying to derail it."
"no because your two proposals are so freaking ******ed, unbalanced and embodiment of the stereotype of the whiny carebear that we think you're trolling us.so either you're ******ed, or you're trying to get a rise out of us. consider it a compliment that we choose to consider you the later.better to be thought a troll, instead of an idiot, then to open your mouth and remove all doubt and prove you're an idiot."
"bad idea bad thread bad poster"
"supported. would make ships cheaper and more affordable for lose in pvp. market would even out, it makes little gain for miners in the long run. don't care for barge kills, can't risk putting too many of them in kb anyway, those are a liability(right next to rookie ship kills) if you ever want to apply to top corps/alliances with the toon. record stays with you forever. for the pirate alts with no future plans, oh well, their problem. i just want cheaper stuff."
"you are either a really bad troll or really too new to this game to be even trying to make balancing suggestions"
"what kind of balance is there between pvp fit and barge, exactly? who cares. it's not like there are any barges to kill in lowsec anyway. if you like killing them, go to highsec and gank some ice miner."
"dude, it's freaking simple. setup a mining plan that's designed to keep mining efficiency and mining safety balanced. don't expect ccp to help you out on this one. as a 0.0 miner, i have yet to lose a single exhumer or industrial to anyone as i was a careful carebear. besides, it's your freaking fault if you get jumped in 0.0 and you didn't have a plan in place."
"in some of those backwater sov-null systems tucked deep inside the blue alliance @ss, you don't see a single red for weeks on end. it's safer than highsec, where random ppl gank you."
"cromo, your epic failure continues to amaze me.also, when it comes to mining, exhummer > ishtar, when it comes to combat ishtar >>>>>>>>>>>>>>> exhummer. welcome to a game were every ship is differnet and built for different things. if you can't deal with the fact that some ships just can't certian things, please go, you won't be missed. (can i haz ur stuffs?) and fyi i have seen battlehulks. one took down several pvp ships attemping to kill it. look it up on youtube if you don't beleive me."
"right now this game revolves around super carriers. they are everywhere and unless you have some epic fleet on standby they can just hot drop left and right without any consequences.what i propose is remove their ability to fit electronic warfare modules. specifically warp disruption and webification modules. that way they need a support fleet to tackle stuff like the way it is meant to be.there is far too much hot dropping lone freighters and other small capitals happening because those super carrier pilots are just looking for risk free pvp.give this proposal support and help balance this ******ed game mechanic."
"i don't think supercarriers are your biggest problem."
"stop posting in all bold.but, requiring a tackler will only make it so you need two characters. i agree motherships (no! not supercarriers!) need to be rebalanced, but this isn't it."
"...or you could just be smart about how you travel in a freighter?wb emo tj"
"well this, obviously you're a massive idiot (****** is more applicable, but it's censored) if you're travelling in a solo freighter in low or null sec. you deserve to be mom hotdropped tbh."
"risk free pvp? lol are you serious?how is dropping 20b isk on random people you know little about, risk free?... for all they know, you could have a cyno and 20 moms on standby just waiting for them....don't fly freighters alone in low/null sec and you will be fine. don't fly and capital alone in low/null sec either... its just stupid."
"awww...wittle nooblet is crying over losing his freatar.poor widdle nooblet.please....grow up....."
"i never said they were totally alone. even with an escort they are still easy targets for super carriers. what good is an escort if they are taking 12,500 dps from just one supper carrier?stop try to say i am mad because i lost a freighter or i am emo tj. you are just players with no skill that think by attempting to make me look bad it will somehow make you look good.stick to the balancing issue and stop trying derail my thread."
"i lol'd. also, stop typing in bold! you're making me cry!"
"we'll start treating you with seriousness when you stop acting like a 6 year old crying over a kicked over sand castle who screams in bold typed letters.you should feel honored to feel the wrath of a super carrier...they aren't cheap...and the pilots who use them are trapped in them. again...grow up...get a backbone. this is eve online...not kiddie online."
"i'm fairly certain an illiterate child could offer better balancing advice than you"
"why couldn't the super drop on me. i wanted to see one up close"
"i've never seen cromo post a nontroll or a not in bold post. so just ignore his posts, he has very poor resoning skills form what i've seen.one question, why would someone bring a lone freighter to low sec? its equally as suicidal as warping to high sec in an orca with -10 sec status. stop whining that they are powerful, thats what you get when you have a 20 billion isk ship full of very expensive frighters/bombers. they are supposed to be powerful, besides the titan the the biggest and most expensive ships in the game. if you don't like people with more money/skill points then you being better than you, hello kitty online is -----> that way. when you emoragequit from being less rich/not flying as big ships as a 5 year old char and it stays that way becuase thats how the game has been since luanch date, can i haz ur stuffs?"
"hell yes, it would not be very difficult to include a name change history (much like you have in the way of a corp history). and really if someone wanted to beware of a scammer, pirate, etc etc all they would have to do is get off their lazy bums and make a few clicks.as it is, many new people come into this game not knowing what to expect and just choose a name as they are unsure what to go with, whilst also wanting to experience the game. from there as time progresses, they wish to stick to their character given they do not want to do all the isk gathering/skill training again."
"i agree. sucks when you've named a character, then decide you hate his name or something, but it's far too late to do anything about it. i also agree it should be very limited if players are allowed to do it more than once at all."
"absolutely fully supported, no reason someone who doesn't pay to play the game should be paid in-game."
"agreed"
"no"
"highsec should be left as it, but i see it as being useful for lowsec. have to point out though that the button, when it pops up, can't force you to act on it like some of the other ones do (try starting a petition while doing something else), otherwise it will hamper your efforts to defend yourself."
"eve looks great when you can see it. i'm sure it has been brought up before, but why isn't there a command chat window that filters your other channels into it?eg. you have windows, \"intel\" \"corp\" \"fleet\" open in the usual tabs. you can minimize all those windows and have command chat open and by setting your active channels to different colors all 3 or however many you want filter into your command window. [intel] spike in local[corp] reds next door, jump in fleetand to talk by using /corp /intel commands. would love to be able to see more than 1/4 of my screen and so sick of the delay with changing tabs in lag."
"could be nice... and also very confusing then again, the point of eve is to have all the graphics covered up by ui!"
"i agree, multiplexing chat into one window by different colour text would often be better than the tab nightmare we currently have. unfortunately, eve already reserves coloured text for chat from special characters (gms, ccp etc.)"
"i think the idea is good, as for the color issue why not make it post it like above?like that it mentions the first 5-8 letters of the channel in brackets and than shows the text.definatly supporting the idea."
"that would not matter. via the command box you get your color pallet choices of 20 colors or whatever they are so gm's might be yellow right now, but you can change intel to yellow and gm's to dark red. people can leave everything as is or change each option to something different, up to them."
"yep, color would be optional but basically you would see[intel] spike in local[corp] reds next door, jump in fleetexcept to make things super easy, you might have intel set to red or something so that it stands out against corp/alliance chat in white or green or whatever. if i knew how to post in color would be handy :)"
"i tentatively support the training of at most 2 characters per account at a time for an additional fee of 70-90% of current account's monthly costs to be paid as other methods are. your example, imo of 33% to 66%, is too cheap and would likely be very lucrative and appealing to many character farmers. if you are on a renewing sub you must choose 2 char training account and pay monthly, every 3 months, 6 months or 12 months in advance as you do now. if you choose plexes you must use the needed percentage of a plex, if it is chosen to be 70% then ccp allows you to use 70% of a plex leaving the 30% to be combined with other 30% plexes to make a 'complete' plex or says you must use it all and 'lose' the 30% due to your payment method. due to the nature of this i think partial plexes should not be allowed to go on the market and perhaps not even contracted. some are horrid at math and/or won't understand what a partial plex is all assuming ccp can have a partial plex show up as the correct percentage ingame so people aren't easily fooled into thinking that they are full plexes.i'd like to be able to skill up some alts and not have my main sucking mothballs during that time but running another account to do so then paying to transfer that char back when it has had 'enough' isn't really what i'd prefer to do."
"i support this ~only~ if increased subscription cost is involved, as the op says.edit: lolsupportbutton"
"ccp regrets their decision to allow creation of more than one character per account as it is.to add to this, i think the main reason people make multiple accounts is to use them at the same time. for example, while one mines and jetcans, the other could haul ore from the can to the station.the whole point of only being able to train one character is to force you to specialize. sorry, but i agree with the system currently in place."
"considering how much money they're making off character transfers, i doubt it."
"fixt for you.lol there's absolutely no way at this point."
"make that 15$ per month and you might have a deal."
"as many of you are aware, empire is very full. the problem is that whiel the new sov mechainics allow for smaller alliances to hold and upgrade sov space, the larger established ones hold all the real power. we've seen it develop over the years, huge alliances stopming everything in their path, while with their \"pets\" they hold sway over massive amounts of space. i have a solution to change that, which would use variations on existing mechainics. may the server forgive me for the extra load i'm about to add lol.the need is simple enough. you need small and medium sized pockets (constellation sized), perhaps 5 to 10 systems each, that can be sov-tagged and upgraded. they need to be linked right to empire to get people out of the highsec areas. they need to be isolated from each other, otherwise you're just adding a new region, which will be consumeed by the locusts that make up the huge blocks we already have. you also want to be able to have a bit of security. if all it's going to do is create new camping spots for pirates, again, not much point.the proposal itself is this. that 8 or 10 new \"0.0 constellations\" be added to each highsec or lowsec region (but not 0.0 regions). they would link to empire through what i like to think of as hidden gates. the gates are there, but they have to be scanned down. the gate won't move once it's scanned, so you can bookmark it, and you may have a group that finds it also and decides to visit on occasion. but for the most part, to the people passing by, you're not even there. it's a stargate in every normal way, except it doesn't show up on your overview. the rats can be the same as that region, using normal tables for anomaly/plex generation as the given npc areas with those rats. the ore will be a random mix, but again can be upgraded with sov. i's a home that a 400 or 500 man alliance can defend easily, with a single (or perhaps double) access point, close to empire so it doesn't require the massive expendature of logistic resources the larger alliances can afford. and it increases combat opportunities aswell.....just because the gate has to be scanned down doesn't make it invisible or impossible for everyone else to find, you could still have people coming in to your space. and you could have a hidden back door if you slack off and don't scan every inch of your space, there could be more than one gate.any thoughts on this? obviosly btw, no gate in jita, that would just be.......uh yeah, no jita one lol."
"we dont need more space we just need to spread everything out instead of loads of gd stuff in just certain systems whille rest r empty"
"what you are referring to is the random distribution of resources which exists through all regions taken as a whole. if you look at a single region, or even 2 or 3, yes you will see some distortion in the spreads, but in a larger picture they even out. if you're looking for arkonor in highsec, take up scanning because that won't be coming around. this proposal is to create a number of smaller areas that, with the new sov mechanic, can allow smaller groups to have acces to the kinds of resources needed to build up without having them become pets, or being bound to the larger alliances as we've seen in the past. it also increases pvp areas without using lowsec, which nobody really uses that much anyway."
"sounds like you basically want a private 00 area for a handful of corps/alliances. you are just taking wh's neutering them(no sleepers, no random entries) and expanding them so they get all the benefits of 00 and the 'secrecy' of wh space.i'd like more wh's, maybe expanding them would be a good idea but what you are proposing sounds too 'easy' for the occupants. why would people go into what amounts to 'private' 00 when there are only a couple of entry points from highsec/lowsec? they do it at wh because they won't know where they go, if it is occupied, or to find sleepers. i think if you offered the average highsec player the opportunity to trespass into a 00 owned territory through the front door they'd turn you down. once these constellations are made and occupied they will be mapped and i think only an occasional visitor or visitors will enter.i can see some promise but there'd need to be changes to just making a private 'fort' no one can enter except through the front door where you can upgrade the space etc, maybe larger wh 'pockets' but no upgrades or limited 'new' upgrades like guns placed at static entry points."
"what exactly prevents the existing alliances from taking over this new space?"
"i'm not sure how you see it as neutered wormhole space, any more than existing 0.0 regions are neutered wormhole space. what i'm proposing is that a couple new 0.0 regions be broken down into constellations, and the gates seeded around empire in a way that requires actual effort to locate them. wormhole space is good in several ways, but it has a number of limitations which prevent the kind of building up that conventional alliances require to move up the food chain. for instance the lack of ability to move capital ships out once built, no supercaps at all, limitations on logistics enforced by the wh's mass and timer. really, the concept that you have of a \"private fort\" is ridiculous, as such areas already exist in the form of dead-end constellations throughout npc 0.0 and lowsec space. even the access points are for existing 0.0 are choke systems, designed to minimise access and increase security. this is meant to produce \"mini-regions\" that smaller groups can use and secure, without having to have the backing of a larger power. the relation to wormhole space is miniscule at best. if you want more wormholes, start a new post.as for what prevents existing alliances from moving in all i can say is......nothing! the game allows for no certainties. what i can do is point out the difficulties in them doing so. let us assume that morsus mihi had someone locate a gate in mmmm otanoumi. now, yes they could certainly move in there. however, would it really gain them anything besides what they arleady have? no not really. would it involve extra effort on their part, yes it would. it would also divide their forces in the event of major combat, which we've seen in the past. even iinstalling a pet in there would have issues, they have to be able to defend that pet after all. it would be so much simpler for them to get that associate alliance onto the tribute blue list. while it would not be impossible for them to do, i really can't see them bothering with it."
"why generate more space for current naptrains?i agree, expanding wormholes would be great, but this is just stupid."
"who said anything about a nap-train? the whole point is to reduce that, to give smaller groups the opportunity to use the resources of 0.0 without having to join a nap train? as examples, take a look of some of the areas in 0.0 right now. huge areas controlled by a few powers dictating the \"nap-trains\" to their guests. the best way to remove that, is to make smaller areas, which would be harder to control overall because they aren't connected to each other as a regular region is. and again, if you want more wormhole content, make a new post for it. this is not wormholes."
"i see one major flaw in your theory. its titanbridging. the big alliances will just do what they did with lowsec. they will come in, snatch all the valueable moons and dont care for the rest. leaving nothing but some gunner and cynoalts in system.than when getting attacked as usual jump their big capital fleet on random group xy and move on again, or let the tower fall, kill the tower that comes up after and replace it once more. i really dont see a reason why to give the big alliances the ability to pay their sovereign costs even more easier so i cant support this idea.also from your post i assume that the gates once located stay in position forever as you didnt mention downtime at all. this would just end up in bookmark selling like in the early days of eve with 15km gate jumpdistance and make it as any other 0.0 in a very short time."
"essentially this. and assuming you have considered this and somehow want to interject \"wait, no jump bridges into mah new spaze!\" then all you're really asking for is free jamming in some new region. sounds thrilling, really it does, but it's still a hair-brained terrible idea. you can't just make a new region with special rules and expect it to spawn some new politik based on it's unique design. it's going to get rolled over, ****d, and left to bleed out like everything else unless you adress the mechanics that are causing you to say \"i want nullsec, but i don't want.... nullsec.\""
"i empathise, but this is not the way to do it.instead, nerf travel so that existing alliance blocs can't just curbstomp anything from anywhere on the map within a day. i'm looking at you, jump clones / jump freighters / jump bridge networks / warp to zero./ben"
"neutered wh space, no sleepers to deal with, no random entries/exits that may come and go meaning you can't always know the way out or even where it leads you. the random in/out also means people can and will wander in, why because people explore wh and want to kill sleepers or setup a pos, move in, attack you, etc. making new 00 not connected to old 00 and with a static connection to highsec/lowsec and not connected to other new 00 with a 'couple' of entries is basically a fort for the inhabitants. the ways in are possibly wh if you allow that but they can't connect to 00 right?, jumpbridges and the static gates you have to probe out to find. all this and you want to be able to claim sov and upgrade it cause it is 00 but not quite right?i get your 'goal' of 00 where other people can exist but i don't see it happening not with you rewriting the rules to tailor space for you and it still could be taken from you. rather i think there need to be real changes to 00 first so that the alliances can't simply 'own' empty space so easily dominion was supposed to fix that but that didn't happen."
"and this would keep existing powerblocks out.........how? sounds goodat first but as soon as you look at it in detail, it simple doesn't work. it would be instasov'd by the powerblock's pets. and if they don't instasov it, they will jsut do what they did in low sec (claim every mon actually worth mining and leave the crummy stuff to the rest of us)."
"ah, sorry. i just skimmed your proposal the first time around. still...there is the principle of the matter to factor in. industrial ships are just that, industrials. they have the capacity to have limited defenses and weapons, but otherwise can't compare to a pure combat ship (even if it's a frigate). what you're proposing is to give them combat abilities, however \"limited\" they are, to a ship that is otherwise not designed for it.and just an fyi... t2 sentries can do a lot of damage, enough to easily pop a frigate if their transversal (or lack of thereof) is just just right. think the damage of a heavy drone only it doesn't need to \"catch up\" with its target.@goose99... escorts do work... you just have to be smart about it. in low or null sec you can have a bunch of very menacing ships with fast tackle to keep most attackers at bay. if an attack still happens then a logistic ship and/or remote repairs from the escorting ships helps tremendously.in high-sec... the \"escort\" needs to change tactics as it's impossible to \"clear the way\" in the traditional sense unless both parties are at war with one another. instead, the use of \"scouts\" to see where the gate camps are becomes invaluable."
"explain to me why do you jump the industrial through before the escort clears the gatecamp?"
"its nice to see some one who actualy responds with logic to a postbut i digress, indy's are the only ship in the game that is more or less a flying shoot me sign. i mean if you compare standard vehicles today are \"indy's\" are all most bullet proof while are cars and truck bust up pretty well. as far as i know very few indy's survive an attack, even in high sec , however if they had w-pods they might be able to push of the attacker and get away."
"real life cars and trucks are not designed for combat like nonindustrial-based ships are. industrials are haulers and are designed for just that: hauling. they are not meant to fight back, and they are not supposed to be heavily-defended. there are tech 2 industrials designed to not go boom, that's what they're there for. on top of this, if ccp were to add a way for industrials to defend themselves, why would they add a brand new, unneeded mechanic, when they could just add a drone bay or high slots and hardpoints? this makes very little sense to me and it seems like it would be a waste of resources to implement."
"iloled hardsomeone is doing it wrong"
"muahahahaaha killer haulers ftw go in launch 100 w-pods muahahahahahaha"
"not supported. using out of game cash is a huge problem that would hurt a very real deterent ccp has to #1 below. add your \"suggestion\" in, and that will become an even bigger problem. 1) isk farmers, etc will abuse this see above. 2) metagamers - laundering characters - another way this will make eves \"frontier justice\" system even worse."
"i love this idea, a quick and easy way to transfer a character using an in-game item you'll likely already own."
"they are a waste of time and doesn't add any enjoyment for anyone. yes i have over 10.5 million sp in learning skills spread across my chars and i can't wait to see them removed."
"i guess the implants that give you more attributes are a waste of time eh lets remove them as wellhell for sake of it why not remove cap skills as well they help alot but i cba to actually train em... on second thought remove all skills cause i cba to train em"
"wow, look how dumb your character is.implants i consider ok - there's quite a few people who would disagree, but they have an associated cost and active risk of losing them (provided you undock..) so i don't see much of a problem there. other skills have associated benefits as well - improvements left and right, ability to fit certain modules etc, and therefor aren't just there for the sake of skills."
"don't spread this secret around or anything, but in eve skills are trained over periods of time. the learning grind is spending time training skills, in order to save you time training skills. its a bizarre circle of tedium which pushes new players into stupid un-fun nonsense (\"hey, newbie, be sure to spend the first two weeks in your ibis not getting better at killing things or flying your ship, but on training skills that will grant you a training payback in 6 months (if you don't get bored and quit by then)!\") at the very time when they should be at their most wide-eyed and enthusiastic about this exciting new world they've entered."
"... which is why being able to train the exact same skills as anybody else, but being able to do it quicker saves time. there is no real difference between implants and skills other than the fact that you need implants for each jump clone and they're a good bit easier to lose since losing skills is generally pretty rare as long as you're not a total tard. no, it doesn't. this is just simple. if you do not want to train learning skills at first and want to get into a fast tackling rifter... then do that. if new players can't figure that out for themselves or if they listen to bad advice, well, that's part of eve too. should we remove exhumers because some new players will be convinced that they have to train right to a hulk the very first thing they do, and forget everything else? yet-a-gain, there is absolutely no reason that a new pilot cannot pretend that learning skills don't exist (which is what everybody arguing against them wants anyways) and train for whatever they want. if learning skills are eliminated... players will do the exact same thing they can choose to do now, except there will be no choice and it will be mandatory. and this because some folks claims that the degree of choice offered right now is really an interdict because there are potential advantages to some choices. meh."
"saves me a lot of logging in and out ;p"
"a simple yes."
"i support this idea, but since there is no real alternative offering on the current mmo market ccp can do whatever they think will get them the most $$ at the end of the day."
"support doing *something* to fix rails and blasters."
"remove the learning skills.they are a wast of time for new players.i have 3 accounts all 5/5 (at least 3 years old each)get rid of them, it's a ridiculous waste of time for a new player and adds nothing to the game."
"not supported.eve is about our choices in the emergent sand box of new eden. choosing whether or not to train learning skills is a part of the essence of eve. the need to choose between long term gain and short term gratification is what separates eve players from the rest. taking away learning skills is to a degree like taking away all the gunnery or spaceship command skills. those skills also stand in the way of new players \"delay[ing] gratification at a critical point in their introduction to the game\". why not just remove those and make isk the only barrier to piloting every ship in the game perfectly?because then it wouldn't be eve, and we wouldnt be playing it."
"1.0"
"not supported.relatively new player who thinks this idea sucks. why take the choice away?i hope this doesn't make it to the list of \"demands\" like that crap pi omnibus."
"they are effectively +10 implants you never lose if you choose to buy the skill books and train them, meaning you can get that + to attributes with significantly less cost, isk wise, than you could buying +5's and never have to 'worry' about replacing them if you get podded. i support this idea as i'd rather not spend time training them to get the effect when we can simply give that effect to everyone, leveling the playing field, allowing new players to benefit from them without having to rack up the millions for the advanced soct or deal with issues of should i train them/i can't play for a month bs. for those that put the time+isk into learning skills letting them reap the 'benefit' of accelerated sp training is also great. it would be nice if that mental exercise, balancing training learning with doing what is fun, didn't have to go as it is very eve imo but i like the op's solution if learning skills are to go."
"umpa lumpa bumpa"
"this proposal is to request that ccp create a little button in the jumpclones menu that allows for the remote removal of a jumpclone."
"*shrug* why not+1"
"oh hell yes, please! this is so annoying. especially as a 0.0 player with jumpclones all over the place."
"1.0"
"+1 good idea"
"approved."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i like what marcus gideon said: so how's about we get a quick option through the command center (which is otherwise a completely useless object).[reset extractors]- [5 minute cycle]- [15 minute cycle]- [30 minute cycle]- [1 hour cycle]this is a great idea, since i have 5 planets with about 20 extractors per (resetting around 100 extractors takes up too much time...and my poor wrist hurts )those who caution about the alts...well there are alts out there that are strictly for mining. i've seen them. one person with a few extra cheap comps or lappy's and they have a whole mining fleet of alts. it's already been done, so why whine about it..."
"dont let the dream that is lowsec die! more support!"
"/signed"
"i have to agree with intar medris.i'm one of those miners that actually works at mining. i have on a rare occasion, spent 12 hours of my saturday, sitting at my comp mining. never used a macro in my life, don't even know how to set one up or want to try.when i get together with my corp mates for a mining op for a large amount of the more common minerals to build stuff with, i don't want the asteroid belts ****ed with. we mine 0.5 systems such as hek and i don't want to see things change."
"love this idea"
"would be awesome +1"
"/signed"
"1.0"
"/signed./me slaps t'amber and big miker."
"encourages more people on the test server, good for ccp.sounds fair, since you lost some sp since the mirrors are behind.should be easy to implement, run /add allocate_sp,all,5000000 command at every mirror supported."
"do want pl0xespecially the mass test reward theory ;)"
"so why does ccp not like the idea?? we all want it right? its a test server for testing stuff.... is it that hard to get that to work?"
"looks good."
"i like the idea."
"it totally makes sense to be able to change subsystems in w-space!"
"i had no interest in 'ambulation' until this idea.interesting concept.i give support for thinking outside the box.'he drew first' - another famous smuggler."
"why would anyone waste their time with those silly games when there will be ton more fun stuff to do when ambulation comes out?stop trying to turn that into your personal expansion. me along with the rest of eve don't want to play zorok-online."
"you're right, only half of the population want it."
"pulling numbers straight out of your ass i see."
"posting rubbish in bold is equaly horrible"
"supported."
"both hands up!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"support subject"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"the purposal deals with nullsec and balancing barges vs. pvp ~invaders~reading comprehension ftw?"
"at least i know how to spell. your argument is shallow at best."
"you misspelled \"jump\" as \"hump\" in your first post. the person you quoted is right, by the way. incorrect spelling doesn't lessen anyone's point. also, before i post this, a quick question: why is every post by you i've seen in assembly hall today a complete troll post? everything (and i repeat, everything) i've seen that you've said in the forum has clearly been meant to anger, or at least annoy, innocent forum posters.edit: ironically, i had to fix my spelling. granted, it is nearly 3 in the morning where i live, but that was still a mistake. sorry."
"just because there are things you don't understand does not automatically make them a troll."
"i don't think you know how to spell, either.source."
"so let me get this straight.1: your an idiot who fly's a freighter without adequate escort in the midst of low-sec/0.0 space.2: your an idiot who mines without proper escort in low-sec space.your solution - ***** and whine and cry and call everyone cheaters and those who have substantially more than enough iq points to point out just how utterly epic fail you are seem to have solutions longer than your bloody arm to prevent such disasters.did i miss anything? yeah. you have nothing to argue with but you pick on everyone's spelling.what are you.... a teenager on drugs? i suggest you quit while your ahead because you likely just made yourself the most popular target yet.stop posting before you end up looking worse than what... never mind. (see's yet an another topic being posted).ps: bold type doesn't make your smarter... it makes you look worse."
"stop. poasting."
"to answer your concern about the legality of the destruction of plexes i will use your comparison to gift cards that you have been using.retailers have no legal obligation to make their gift cards indestructible and whether or not they have an obligation to assist customers in recovering their gift card codes or not is questionable. so a proud owner of a gift card that burns up in flames might find himself in the same position of that of a customer whose plex just got destroyed(sol)."
"if someone is getting free money, it ought to be a charity."
"much better idea. btw - lookup some documentaries about what happened with the haitian aid. so much money... but where is it?"
"/signed"
"awesome think of all the sweet sweet pr ccp... just think!"
"do something productive with the things. recycle from rat drops, or donate a significant percentage. it's good pr either way. with looting from rats, we get happy players. with charitable donations, some players get a warm-tingly feeling, and some part of the rl world gets a benefit."
"have corps/alliances/groups field a fleet with alliance tournament rules to fight for which charity the money goes to."
"supercarriers don't need to be nerfed as there is already a practical counter to a hot drop....player intelligence.as in the following:don't use non station low sec systems.don't use a station that will kick you out of dock range.don't be hasty, wait for session timers to complete.don't light cynos with neuts in local in null sec.don't use cyno beacons without a scout in local.don't be predictable....best advise following....don't be a ****ing idiot."
"talk about irony overload.look. i will talk in short sentences so your under devoped brain can understand.if you don't like my proposal. just leave constructive criticism. if you are incapable of that then do not post at all.if this is still too much for you to comprehend then go back to wow you pathetic piece of trolling trash."
"that constructive enough for you?"
"quoting this for emphasis."
"supporting this.motherships should get capital ewar modules instead. capital bubbles even, with 50km+ radius. as it is, it's nearly impossible to tackle supercaps for long enough to kill them. this would do the trick quite well. other than ofcourse bringing a blob of hics/dics.edit: to the op. if motherships are so awesome, just buy one yourself."
"summary so far1. op is a moron2. supercaps are fine as is.much posting explaining such dismissed by op due to fact 1."
"supercapital ships are fine, stop whining.seriously, if you were to walk into a cave and kick a hibernating bear, should we blame the bear for eating you?please, feel free to test that theory.edit- besides, doomsdays are the \"i win\" button."
"ftfy. also, not supported."
"long gone are the days of real battle reports. long gone are real official statements of corporations and alliances. the current state of caod is a toxic waste land of trolls and worthless alt posters who cry out for attention.i propose ccp return it to its former glory by doing real moderation of it and implement a system that only allows people to post in caod with the character with the highest skill points on the account.ccp, please give us back the real caod."
"you must not see all the moderation they are doing right now anyways not supported because forums will be forums, and there will always be trash. and don't use this as an excuse to go2blizzrd and make us post with our real names, that's just full ******."
"did i say real name? no i didn't. learn how to read and stop trolling."
"...says the posting alt -2/10"
"i am talking about when posting on caod only!"
"think there should be a landing area around lowsec gates so you cannot get killed landing on a gate at zero in low sec. if your moving loot or something small in and around lowsec it's hard enough to do without pirates using what i think is a exploit. bubbles off gates in 0.0 i understand but you don't even have a chance to jump out with smartbombs on gates."
"warp to a planet with a steaper angle towards the outgate and you shoud be able to avoid the smarty."
"rack of large smartbombs covers enough ground."
"so far it worked fine for me ;)"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.not really, no. your coverage of angles gets even worse on constellation/regional gates.lowsec smartbombing is fine."
"just a quick note -- teadaze apparently forgot to post the fact that this passed during csm4 and is currently listed as \"in process\" to ccp.it also made it through the recent crowdsourcing and csm filtering and is on our list that is being presented to ccp today."
"gb2wowkthxbai"
"the ability to call concord in lowsec would completely negate lowsec space and turn eve into a highsec/nullsec game with no middle ground. it does not matter if it is a 30 second delay or a 5 minute delay.miners could \"pre load\" belts with concord ships that are not affected by the delay. missioners and plex runners can do the same as well.\"lowsec\" would also become a safehaven for super caps as you would need a very very hard core fleet to drop a supercap that can call in concord after a few minutes. the loss to the agressors would be billions. this would basically negate cap ship usage in lowsec.this would completely negate lowsec gate camping, especially for placeslike rancor and helg. the first hauler that gets attacked hits the distress button and the gate camp for the day is basically done and over with. same can be applied for station camping/games as well.horrible idea top to bottom.you are doing it wrong :) just gotta know where to look and what to do."
"in high sec by time you think about pressing the button it's already to late in some circumstances. i would however like to be given the option, like a button that would tell concord to back off so i can take care of the issue myself. pressing it would immediately stop the concord response and leave all aggro rules in place."
"no to both suggestions, requiring distress call is silly, and concord doesn't belong in low-sec. if you want to keep people from afking the game than give them something to do instead of wait for their mining lasers to cycle or the rats to die."
"bastard stole me idea. :pwhile i can see this easily being done with factories, silos and launchpads, where each upgrade level has the same cost as individual units with no reduction in power, cpu usage. multiple in, multiple out plus upgraded links for the extra load.however i don't think you can do it quite as easily with extractors.you wouldn't want multiple extractors all on top of each other extracting the same resource.extractors would need to use the grouping proposal, either assigning them to groups or selecting multiple extractors for a scan."
"like that?"
"interesting idea, however not as detail as it should.atm chats have a full player list (alliance, corp, local, etc)if you put all of the tabs in a single colum and have different names-colours before the message (as said above) how would you be able to see who is in alliance, corp, and local?"
"why would you need to? if you need to see who's actuall in each channel, go look at the channel. the idea here is to present relevant information in one place. a list of all the users in a particular channel isn't necessary."
"the combined channel would simply have no member list, but clickable names."
"i think the op said this, but this would just be a new window, not replacing all your old chat windows. you'd still have those, too."
"ccp needs to clarify if agro extension is a working as intented game mechanic or if it is an exploit. recent posts in c&p, the eve blogsphere, petitions, and disccussions have shown that this a big grey area that needs to be resolved.agro extension has long been a tool by highsec mission greifers to extend agression beyond the 15 minute timer. there are various ways that this can be done, but the most common is shooting a wreck. the act of the person shooting the wreck resets the timer of the other person as well as his own, even though the other pilot has not taken any aggressive actions against the person for the 15+ minutes of the timer.senior gm's have reimbursed the pilot that knowingly undocked with an active agression timer, but figured that it was more then 15 minutes so he was safe, then got blown up. there needs to be a clear explination of the rules of engagement from ccp regarding this. it is either a valid game mechanic and no ships should be reimbursed, or it is a n exploit and all ships should be reimbursed if petitioned and the person using the exploit be warned/banned as a result of his actions.this is a staple of highsec game play and it needs to be clarified one way or the other."
"even the gm who reimbursed the missioner said that aggro mechanics are working as intended, and the missioner admitted to seeing the aggro timer reset.however, had his session not changed in the process he would not see the timer reset. fixing invisible aggression timers isn't very hard, and ccp needs to do that for wreck shooting, lowsec station guns, etc."
"i lost a perfectly good abandon to an ninja salvager after waiting 30 minutes.that's without a timer displayed mind you.no warning window... nothing (and i had one before i finished waiting the time out to make sure).was told/implied that there was a glitch and there was nothing to be done or said.so yes... its time they got off their ass and fixed it... but that won't happen for 18 months.i curse the invisible aggression timer. i don't mind losing the ship as i knew what i was getting into... but now i have no freaking way of knowing if i'm still flagged or not. so if you can't trust the server... then what do you do about it?"
"well i have been offered a hel for a sensible price and although i can fly one i am discouraged by the obvious price difference in fitting one up.an armour tanked sc can be fitted with centum/corpum/corelum a type energised plating which are pretty reasonably priced and drop well, same with the idividual x type resists yet there seems to be absolutely no deadspace invulnerability field, so although we have gist/pith x type shield hardeners ( which don't seem to drop anywhere near as the aforementioned armour hardeners, check contracts for verification) we have no invulnerability field, so it is either a dread gurista's one or go for an officer and the price difference is astounding, 20 billion for an estamels invuln anyone.so my suggestion is simple, let us have deadspace invulns (pith/gist a types maybe ) that drop at the same regularity as the armour variations, as well as slightly increasing drop rates on the pith/gist x type harderners to bring them into parity with armour mod drops."
"need one of these here, supporting my proposal."
"obvious solution to a long-standing problem.also, in before the entire nc charges in to support this thread because 'zomg, our plexes!!11!'"
"zomg our plexes!seems like a sensible idea. i think a lot of the shield hardeners end up on golems and tengus. since caldari ships are kinda ccp's gift to carebears, there is a greater demand for shield hardeners."
"sauce?i have 2 (sometimes 3) accounts, and i only use 2 at the same time occasionally, and of course never all 3. the reason people make multiple accounts is to train different characters for different things.and yet people already circumvent that \"forcing\" by making multiple accounts."
"my apologies...i have no sauce. if you don't want to take my word for it disregard that part of my post. i read it once but i have no recollection of where. perhaps i should have worded that more clearly, sorry. i meant to say that it was to force each character to specialize. though, looking back, i honestly believe i came off as a complete idiot, considering the fact that whether it's multiple accounts or multiple characters per account, each character will still be specialized. should i pull out of this thread now and save myself the embarrassment?"
"it is a real shame ank was removed. she was the only one that stood up to ccp and was representing the player base. i guess they didn't like that and kicked her. now we are left with a farce of a csm. nothing but yes men who are only there for personal gain."
"can i have some of that koolaide? lots of the other csm have stood up to ccp (including me) and a number of us would have served ahnk's player base much better that the queen of drama and self centeredness that ahnk is. although some of us are pretty deadly with cutlery! i can take out a nostril with a shrimp fork at 40 meters!issler"
"fyp but yes, lol upon the brain surgeons who decided to vote for someone like ank and, in the process, put a pandemic legion griefer in instead. brilliance in action."
"hi ankh!"
"oh so now i'm her alt too. i guess i'm an alt of anyone that has owned you hard. i see i struck a nerve there. u mad brah?"
"this is so much like ankhbtw, ankh, you look hawt!!! regarding the google references, i'll google for \"eva jobless\" love you ankh!"
"hello,when are planned the meeting minutes ?may we have the ccp purged version and the csm version ?cheers,yeay"
"how about having a single skill 'learning' with this each level of learning will grant you 5 points you can allocate to your attributes, meaning that in total you can have 25 point for remap each yeari am sure the numbers can be figured out but to me it seems to be the most easily executable and woudl update the system more to be in line of the remap functions"
"bitter old vets like you and i understand this, finn. but noobs do not, and they also typically do not understand the tradeoffs involved -- all they see is \"wtf? i've got to train these skills in order to not waste time training the rest of the skills?\".ccp has stated during a previous csm that they would like to dump learning skills, but were unsure of how to do so. they want to do it because it hinders noob retention. keep in mind that the typical noob quits playing eve; we are all non-typical noobs.the recent addition of the skillpoints bonus code gives them a clear way to implement something. it wasn't something they just whipped together during the summit to address the long downtime; they'd already programmed it.this makes it pretty obvious to me that they will do something about learning skills at some point. therefore, i felt it was important to get a proposal on the table that ensured that current players who were patient and long-term focused and trained the skills didn't get screwed. that's why i raised the issue with csm."
"raw logs available from the wiki or via the csm database.summary versions of the minutes are in progress and will be caught up as soon as possible."
"thanks a lot :-)"
"i grok that, honestly and truly. and if ccp is going to scrap ls's, there might as well be a csm proposal for how to do that, but...the reason that most noob subscribers leave the game isn't some fault of the game, it's because eve is inherently a niche product. eve is a pvp mmo where most other such titles are fps games. eve has a tremendously harsh death penalty and a player-driven economy to support (and take advantage of) the use and loss of ships. it revolves around a harsh and unforgiving universe where players fight for everything from market share to viable trade routes to control of hundreds of star systems in 0.0 space. it's got a famous learning curve. the reason most noobs don't stick around is because eve is not their kind of a game. that won't ever change unless and until ccp changes eve enough that it's no longer what we've all known as eve; that is, if ccp decides that rather than being a quality niche product they want real market share, and kill the game in order to get it. that does not seem like a good path for the playerbase, although i'm sure ccp's accountants would love it. i understand that it looks like ccp may implement something like that at some point... and if they're going to they might as well be given some hints so they don't totally **** it sideways. but far better would be simply not fixing it since it's not actually broken."
"i appreciate your perspective, and with my purist hat on, i might even agree with it. but when i put my game-designer hat on, i don't like learning skills so much, and when i put my business hat on, i like then even less.eve will, of course, always be a game with a learning cliff. but from a business perspective, raising the noob retention rate even 1% is a huge win in the long term.in any case, the ball's in their court now, it will be interesting to see what happens."
"if they do away with learning skills they should reimburse players for the sp. this will actually benefit newer players more than older players. while an older player may be able to throw that 45 days of training into 2 or 3 skills they have at level 4 and immediately get them to level 5 (@ +5% gain in each skill for a total of @ +10%-15%) a newer player will be able to throw that 45 days of training into 2 or 3 skills bringing them from level 0 to level 4. (@ plus 20% per skill for a total of = @40 -60% improvement)"
"maybe next time venkul i'll make a power point presentation and discuss the idea in a committee before i post it in a suggestion thread. how new a player are we talking about? i consider someone running level 3 or 4 missions not to be all that new. you may have a point with level 2 missions. seems like most of your criticisms with my suggestions are fixed with minor tweaks. if that's all you've got against it maybe you should expand on my ideas instead of complaining about their presentation.btw i run missions in npc nullsec without any corp support (everyone else there is a potential hostile, and i don't have any major problems. i don't see a need to make missions unscanable.the gap between old and new is huge already, i support making it easier for new players to get into the game, which is one reason why i support removing pointless barriers like learning skills. i would love a fresh server, assuming everything wrong with the game was fixed first, but that's so unlikely it's not worth discussing. i really don't think my suggestions are going to make it significantly worse for new vs old. new players have lost the catch up battle in terms of sps/isk before they begin. it will make a bigger gap between smart vs dumb, active vs macro/afk, risk taker vs risk averse, but all those things are strongly positive outcomes for eve. btw what are your suggestions for low sec? looking at your posts in this thread i don't see any, only criticism. for someone that has posted so many times here on this topic i would expect you would have some ideas of your own, beyond a poorly veiled bias against pirate player types."
"do that, you would make something better. so a guy that has played 1 month for you is a \"veteran\"? with a drake or a raven you can run level 4 mission in that timeframe if you choose them carefully and you will die horribly to any pvper. been there, done that, often easiest than low sec (maybe not now if after tyrannis the missions send regularly you out of the system). i disagree. as both are opinions i doubt we will ever get to an agreement. mostly i would leave low sec as it is today.i think that one of the ways to increase population in low sec would be making scanning people more difficult. even if most pirates are for the instant gratification and don't think on the long term on the long run it would be beneficial for them too. getting a gradual increase in potential targets would, after a time, get them more kills. as most pirates would cry like child at the idea that scanning ships should be made more difficult it will not be implemented, even if in the long ran would help them.low sec problem is simple: too many predators for too little prey. sadly the predators will not starve even if the prey disappear as they will get isk doing missions or selling gtc. so essentially low sec is incurable without changing a lot of basic assumptions of the game and making it something different. trying to force people there will not cure low sec. when you try to force people in a game you only get to **** them off. eve is heavily addictive so they will endure for a period but most of them will not move to low sec, they will simply change what they do and if the game become boring enough they will leave. if you look the last quen, the increase of wh population is partially at the expenses of low sec. that mean that the current low sec population includes practically all people interested in that playstile and that they found wh space agreeable to it too. after all 8% of all eve population in low sec mean that 8% of the players use about 8% of the systems (including whs). what you want? high sec population density in low sec?"
"i'm happy with the csm but one improvement i would suggest is that you all make more use of assembly hall discussions. in the logs from the last 2 meetings i saw a few arguments that seem to come out of left field regarding these proposals. that is they were never mentioned in the relevant ah thread. if i had read them in assembly hall i definitely would have posted some reasons to reconsider those particular positions. but now its a bit late since you already voted. of course you do not always need to post your rationales there. especially if your argument is already made in the tthread by someone else. but if you are sitting back thinking an idea is good or bad for reasons that have not even been brought up in assembly hall that would be a good time to post your ideas there first. if its a doozy its better that you post it there and find out then have it forever saved in the csm wiki.i'm not suggesting you should post in every thread in ah but if a thread is going to be voted on you may want to read it and if your views are not already represented you may want to throw them out so more of the players can weigh in.it can only be a bonus to eve if we have more people adding some constructive comments in ah."
"patch time incoming !let see what will happens in term of quality ?cheers,yeay"
"did you see this dev blog ? : new dev blog: when patching fails, repairi like the irony, in my bad french/english i understand the following:ccp ask us to repair the client if they fail their patch !then it's an invitation for us to do the job cause ccp fail ?i like this kind of customer service.amazing how translation between languages can lead to misunderstanding. yeaynot trolling, just busy waiting a ccp answer."
"after reading their blog it seems as though they just shelved fixing anything for quite some time. yes i understand the need to bring in a larger crowd market by creating the complete science fiction experience but at some point they are going to start losing that crowd of dedicated players. the reason eve has grown steadily is the fact that it has not been losing much of the original player base. i hope that eventually the message gets through because all the summary of the csm meetings has shown us is that they have a massive backlog of issues that they have no intention of looking at with 18 months and even when they do get around to fixing the large backlog of issues they will only touch a few of them and then get back to something new and shiny. i know my words fall on deaf ears but 90 pages should say something about the growing demand for an increased quality control.+1 for committing to a standard of excellence and follow through with it this time."
"i looked at the patch notes and laughed."
"any word from the planning meeting?"
"it's a two-day meeting. we haven't gotten any info that we can talk about yet. please be patient."
"yes."
"sure thing."
"pwetty pwease? i don't see why you shouldn't be able to remove a jumpclone remotely."
"supported, this is the main reason i pretty much don't bother with planetary interaction."
"happy to see that our mac guys will have less bugs !they will now be able to share the others bug with us.ok, technical bugs fixed.what about game bugs ?still no idea planning like way of working on ?cheers,yeay"
"relax.opposing to the joke i wrote in the first paragraph i made two variants in both languages.i'd guess you won't be that much interested in reading tranlated version? :)as to your point i'd say it is discussable, and in most of it i would agree. though my point of view is a bit different and so different would be my opinion.still, regardless of this i would love just to see ccp reacting in any way :)"
"blah!don't get depressed so easily.it's a valid issue in a valid game region.it has been posted.it doesn't fit a bug desciption as it is more global.this forum has zero topics with ccp feedback created for these kind of issues.==> it was called for csm :)do you have any concerns about issues described in the petition?like they work different way which is not described or may be you know something else?please share."
"keith mc'leroyonly one word : thanks !thank you for the topic it will allow us to group the drone region issues till ccp will have fixed them.yeay"
"ehh. there's already a huge number of high sec belts that are wiped out hours after they re spawn. lowering their yields would only make this worse. you'd be surprised at what macros are capable of nowadays. no, i don't use them, but i have looked at them. within a few months from in-game mechanic changes, they've written a way around them. it's analogous to counterfeiting currency. plus, as stated before, the macroers would manually find 4-5 belts you describe, and then execute their macro. just come back in an hour or three, and it's done. i still favor the belt mechanic changes ccp mentioned a fanfest or three ago. it doesn't really do much to thwart macroers, but it would be a nice change. each rock would have a variable and somewhat random amount of minerals, as opposed to asteroid type a having a fixed ratio of minerals. you would have to use your scanner to 'investigate' the rocks if you are cherry-picking for a certain mineral. it also proposed that mining skills and equipment would effect the ratio and types yielded from mining. it wouldn't just be mass-consume all veld for 'n' amount of trit. chribba would be safe though, as there likely would still be rocks named 'veldspar'."
"my proposal is to give people free sp on tranq if they show up at a x amount of mass tests. rewards are fun but sp are the way to go ccp. the system to award sp are allready in place.im thinking of 300,000 sp bonus if a char shows up at 3 test's. the sp's will be availeble for the character that has the most skillpoints on the account."
"rejected"
"don't know what smells worse...your name or this proposal.(that's a no if your not tracking with me)"
"ilike"
"*starts passing out beers*"
"would likely require next to no time to implement, would get people more interested in sisi, more opportunities for people to try out new higher-end configurations of ships and modules = more opportunity for finding bugs.supported."
"*sing* yeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees! */sing*"
"supported!"
"obvious troll is obvious...at any rate, i forgot to give my own proposal a thumbs up, so here goes... at any rate, adding various gambling games to eve will only add to the fun one can have walking around in stations. if no valued content is added besides the ability to walk around, who's going to do it. the only thing so far i've found interesting is the corp war planning table. one thing i would like to add is that games like craps could even allow the player to somewhat control how the dice are thrown rather than just throwing out random numbers..but speaking of random, i guess slot machines wouldn't be a bad thing either. (although i probably wouldn't play them)"
"yes pleeeese!"
"i like where this is going but lets find something else to use instead of clicking."
"if you fit your mining fleet for max yield/efficiency, you're situational awareness and ability to defend yourself will suffer. if the profits are low, then go do the thing where profits are high. also, typing entire posts in bold is douchebaggery of the highest degree, and that is mostly the reason why you've been tagged as a troll. which you are, and i've just fed."
"actually, this idea has merit. it would help clean up the politics involved in which charity it goes too, and it promotes playing the game at the same time."
"...because caod is the only place people troll?the troll-fu is weak in this one"
"arr, but only isd characters can mine isd asteriods fields. the population of these asteriod fields are regulated by ccp in the same way as opec controls and regulates the oil. yes there are legal issues and afew things to be sorted out. but this will happen, maybe not in my gaming career, but this is in the future, as like any new online game, you will want to get in at the begining to get yourself in a strong position.i'm not phased it was turned down, and you could be totally right that ccp has other issue in game to fix, but i believe that eve online is very economically strong and is in a position to bring this idea to fruitation. to get this strong, they don't have dummies at the wheel."
"\o/ woohoo!"
"supporting this.and as avoiding concord is an exploit, the person attacked can wait as long as they want before pressing the button. since it would be an exploit to self-destruct to avoid concord you'd be imprisoned in that system for ever and ever and ever."
"i kind of like the concept as it pertains to high-sec. as for low, no way. it takes away the distinction of low-sec. granted, low-sec needs some kind of attention, or 'boost' as it were, but this is not the kind it needs."
"i am new to the game, so this may seem a bit naive.i have been developing my mining skills and working within a corp, but we are small - but growing. often there is no one to haul ore or provide cover, so i resort to jetcan mining. i realize the risks i run doing this, even in high-sec, but it seems the can-flippers run no risk at all. they swoop in with a cheap frigate, flip the can, watch to see if i aggro them, then disappear for the 15 minute free-fire time. by the time i get to the station to get something that will shoot bullets, they have disappeared and/or the free-fire time has expired. (i would also like to suggest extending that free-fire time period to - oh, 48 hours or so... please?)what i would like to propose is the option - with skill books (i figured that much out about the game already) - to provide the miner with the ability to hide a \"surprise\" in the jetcan. the simplest form could take the form of an explosive - skill level 1 would kill a frigate, level 2 a destroyer, level 3 a cruiser, level 4 a bc and industrial and level 5 a bs and a hulk. obviously, the miner would lose the can and the contents, but it might add a bit of spice to the can-flippers day. they could still flip cans, but they would have some skin in the game.a second option would be to allow the miner to secrete a portable web-statis unit that would hold the flipper - when activated, for the life of the free-fire period. skill level 1 would allow the use of one mobile web-stasis unit, level 2, 2 mod units and so on. units would be lost if the can popsa third option - one that could also leak over into pvp and real battles - and is probably much more complicated, would be the use of deployable missile pods. each unit would self-contain a targeting unit and a small tractor unit to attach itself to the mother ship. deployed units would be lost with the usual two hours delay if the mother ship warped without retrieving. missile skills would apply (something new for most miners) and the missle pod skill level would determine the number of pods you could manage. they would need to be retrieved to be reloaded.i have read in the eve guides that jetcan mining is the recommended method of mining. if that is true, then it does deserve some support.thank you for your consideration."
"first off.... welcome to eve.secondly.... the guides full of crap.jet can mining is very foolish.... people who do it are most likely going to get targeted...as you no doubt realized.if your going to \"can\" mine then you should do so in .7 systems or lower and giant secure cans.pros: you anchor the can and password it and no one can flip your can unless your password sucks.cons: cans much smaller...fills up fast.best method - like it or not mining by yourself is inefficient and just not the kind of thing people do (as far as professional miners and if they do it's with backup/security near by). so your better off getting yourself into a retriever and eventually a hulk. most miners have more than one char (if not more than one account) to help haul.bottom line - most would call your proposal stupid and full of carebear tears of which they so lovingly enjoy. so complaining about the most dangerous form of mining is begging to get trolled.but you don't strike me as anything but just a simple newb (as opposed to noob).so take my advise... get a friend... preferably in an large hauler or orca.don't jet can mine unless you want to get can flipped...frequently. that or go find some dead end system on the fringes of high sec space.feel free to eve mail me in game if you want some more tips.ibtroll posts."
"jetcan mining, for a starting newbie is one way to start mining. however, unless you 'know what you're doing', you're asking to get canflipped.ways to avoid getting canflipped:1. don't jetcan mine, get a buddy or 2nd account who hauls your minerals off. any 'serious' miner does this, it's generally called a mining op, where you have a small fleet of hulks/retrievers bunch up around an orca, dumping all their minerals directly into the orca ( no cans! ), the orca boosting the miners with faster cycles, more range, and more yield, and a hauler who accesses the orca and takes out the minerals, then flies to station with them and dumps them in a corporate hangar. ( or if he's trusted, just into his hangar bay, and it's sorted out at the end of the op )2. if you really can't do the above, find a quiet system, somewhere in a dead end, or other place remote, so there's little chance of a canflipper coming by to flip your can.3. a little 'dangerous' but also an option. flip back your can.when they've done the flip with their frigate, fly back, grab your hauler, with enough room to take the entire can with you ( or at least most of it ), he will probably have flown off, waiting out his timer, go to the can, open it, but don't loot, align to station, and just before warp, grab everything inside the can. then wait out your 15 minute timer for flipping his can."
"lol this couldn't be further from the truth. jetcan mining is not a recommended method of mining because of can flippers. whomever recommended this to you is either incredibly stupid or trying to get some laughs out of it at your expense.don't jetcan, plain and simple. or if you absolutely must use cans, go anchor a couple of secure cargo containers in 0.7 and below."
"as much as i like the idea of a garbage can bomb, i don't like it from a gameplay standpoint.i'm 25+ days to exhumers and i still work in jet cans. i dual box a hauler (which you can't train on trial accounts nor can you dual box with a trial account), and work through a few secure containers. however, i still find myself filling a jet can to 4-5k m3 every so often based on practicality. it's just a matter of searching for a quiet enough system to do your mining in. even the quietest will get flippers here and there, but it beats most hi sec systems where you are pretty much assured of getting flipped every hour or so. train up drones and your tanking to be able to mine 0.5 and your options open up considerably. but getting help hauling is not just important to avoid flippers. it'll also keep your mining lasers going non-stop. and if you do use containers, be sure to anchor them."
"mining is best with orca or hauling support but jetcan mining can be done in relative safety if you're in the right spot and use some common sense. i have a hulk and still frequently jet can mine. from time to time i do get flipped and sometimes i switch to a pvp ship and get a kill sometimes not. all in all though i make out quite well. it's all about location, location, location. keeping your eyes on local and knowing who the flippers are in the area your mining in. i don't jet can mine near trade hubs and even take the time of day/ day of the week into account when i do.like everything in eve it's about risk and reward."
"no, sorry this works as it should and your personal risk with mining is just about zero, the belt rats hardly count if you crap fit a mining barge or have crap skills you could lose the ship to them and you did it not the rats.for a smaller corp you can have the worst yielding miner, crappiest ship use the best cargo hauling fit on their industrial they can and you jetcan they take all but 1 unit of ore as you mine and fill their hold. someone comes along you can stop, pause, take a break or take the chance they nab the ore before your buddy does.a better idea would be to find a good system 0.7 or lower with around 10 belts or more anchor and set a decent password on giant secure containers in a string through the belt 5k from each other so that you can fly along the string, mine the best roids in your mining range fill the cans while moving to the next one never stopping your lasers. the more people the more strings/cans you setup and maybe have several sites at belts in the system or a neighboring system until someone moves up to an orca.if you want to lay traps for can flippers have your best combat pilot pop a can, you jet mine into it and he goes away, either somewhere in space sitting in his 'uber pwnmobile ' or whatever he is willing to risk to take out a can flipper for them to steal your ore from his can. he then can fire on them, you signal him to come in and get the guy, hilarity ensues. your friend can also go out of system in the event the flipper checks to see who owns the can and looks at local."
"drake's advice is pretty spot on. if you're solo mining, get into a hulk asap and fit it for max cargo space. if you're mining in a group, have someone be a dedicated hauler. that way you only have to put the ore into sapce long enough for them to tractor it over and unload the can. best solution is get a friend in an orca. not only do you get more cargo space than you can shake a stick at, you get the mining boosts, which let you mine faster."
"lets be honest - most of the topics posted in assembly hall are half-baked ideas that want to get more attention by posting in here than in the rarely touched f&i. at the end of the day they have essentially the exact same content, except one gets \"some\" viewing by the general eve forumites, the other gets basically none.f&i's usefulness has been marginalized by ah, so something needs changing. either bite the bullet and simply merge them, or find some real way of differentiating between the topics that should be posted in the two forums and have the mods start moving stuff.(also, this is half baked idea )"
"oh, please, ccp doesn't care about either of them. those are just places to troll, for our own entertainment."
"or stop posting half-baked ideas in assembly hall, leave those in features & ideas where they can get the attention they deserve :)nicely self-referential post here though."
"no, there is overlap but that is the players/posters fault for not thinking stuff through. ah is for more structured 'complete' ideas/suggestions. ideally they are essentially 'done' by the view of the poster, if submitted properly they address the majority of issues people would bring up so that players can vote straight up or down and of course explain why or why not.f&i is more for the discussion, exploration of ideas they are not necessarily ready to be 'turned in' to ccp and seek more feedback/information the poster might not have.crossover happens not everyone reads the descriptions or stickies to see what should go where and in some cases the posts can get off topic skewing a more formal proposal, especially if it is poorly thoughtout/explained, towards a discussion on the idea. same can happen with f&i where an idea might just be so 'simple' that most people agree with it or want it naow.tldr: i want icecream."
"this was passed, but as a eve:gate iteration.eve:gate bad.ingame good."
"when picking up illegal items from containers or wrecks in space there is not a warning, however there is a warning when you try and exit a station or jump to a place where it is illegal. it would be a very easy fix and would be toggle-able like the other options to prevent you from being caught with contraband."
"there is a warning asking you if you want to confirm the steal. you must have checked the box, \"don't show this warning again\".happy flipping"
"no not stealing. its from loot from rat wrecks which i have the right to take from. i'm talking about boosters and slaves."
"ah sorry, read your post to quickly. dunno, not a big deal to me i usually leave the garbage isk items behind like drugs anyway."
"this seems (to me) pretty obviously a bug. why on earth would they intend for anyone with a wreck to have an aggression timer that extends at the option of the aggressor, without any act by the aggressed, until the wreck despawns? doesn't that defeat the entire purpose of having aggression timers of fixed duration tied to specific acts of aggression?just because it was well known (in some communities) doesn't make it less of a bug.two question, then: first, for now, is whether exploiting it will result in bans and the like? it seems like empirically the answer is no -- has anyone gotten banned for this? doesn't look like.second is whether it will be fixed at any point. i'm putting the over/under at 18 months =)"
"hello,what about the dev blog in the resume ?'plucking the harp one more timei wanted to bring up the csm again, before signing off on this blog. mass-testing is not just about data, or testing fixes, it is about involving the eve community in assessing the overall quality of eve. we feel very strongly that eve's players must be involved, at some level, in the discussion about the quality of the game. you folks are, after all, the ones who play it day in and day out. you spend your free hours in the universe which we've built, so you should always have a say in how good, or bad, you think that universe is working. obviously, it isn't feasible for us to have one-on-one discussions with everyone, so we have to find some more workable middle ground. we believe we've found a very appropriate one in the csm. these are the people whom you all elect to represent you to ccp. these are the people who will carry your issues, your gripes, and your kudos to us.we have struck up a new commitment with the csm to build a sustainable and open dialog between ccp and the players about the quality and performance of eve. this means that the csm will be able to bring concerns to us more readily and that we can, in return, work together to ensure that we effectively communicate about those issues with all of you. this isn't limited to just the current causes of lag, but any issue that may crop up later that makes eve run poorly, or limits the ability for people to have amazing 1000+ fleet fight once again. we feel this is a very positive change and look forward to working more closely with the csm towards more effective communication and better mass-tests.'waiting backlog point with impatience.if it's somewhere, please, link me the page.cheers,yeay"
"i didn't say nor imply they were a \"veteran\", i said they weren't \"new\". if your reaching a stage of the game where your making good isk there should also be risk. i dislike the dynamic of pve in safety to gain pvp strength (ala eq, wow, coh etc). in every other mmo that claimed to be sandbox and pvp orientated, pve occurred within the pvp environment. in eve this isn't entirely the case, only empire wardecers, ninja salvagers/looters, and suicide gankers make it not entirely the case.right, because like everyone else they can run missions etc in high sec with an alt in near complete safety. same with some null sec players that do the same. i applaud your consideration for new players, but a lot of the players taking advantage of the risk imbalance in eve are older players... even low sec pirates and null sec sov. holders. even those that are currently strictly mission runners or miners that have no interest in pvp ship fights might choose to venture into low sec if the reward warranted the risk, but for most it doesn't. even if they're smart enough to manage the risk and additional associated effort, the difference is still too small from what can be achieved in high. yes, major changes are needed and ought to be implemented. i don't think those changes would make eve something radically different in terms of core concept, it would still be eve. granted it would shatter some player assumptions and established behavior, but ultimately for the betterment of the game as a whole. some may leave, others may come, you can't satisfy everyone, and i don't think those that treat eve like a pve themepark are the ones ccp should be trying to satisfy. however, empire space is already filled with players that already live in null or low sec with another character, or they're \"predators\" that have adapted and migrated to empire space. i see no reason for those players to packup and leave eve should such changes be made.it's not really a question of wanting more density, although seeing more than half of characters are living in empire space is an indication of a problem with the dynamics of the game. it's a question of balance of risk, effort, and reward. it's also seeing that in a game lauded as a pvp game, and one where everything influences everything else, that all major isk faucets come with pvp attached."
"i try to keep up on all the major ah threads, and certainly the ones that will be discussed in meetings; it's currently taking 2-3 hours a day to perform my csm duties.keep in mind that csms don't just consider what's in the threads, but also use their own experience and judgment (and those of their in-game associates). sometimes, being human, one or more of us get things wrong about an issue; that's one reason there are 9 of us voting.if a particular issue is important to you, then do the time-honored thing: lobby your representatives. send them mail about particular issues, stating your position and arguments. squeaky pods get the lube, as vuk would say."
"it is on my radar for a future csm meeting. i try to raise one issue a meeting, picking the most interesting current proposal (last week i raised two, but one got deferred)."
"did i not support this before? my bad."
"signed."
"supported"
"supported!!!! diedra expresses exactly what i think!but honestly, the only way how you can make ccp change their behaviour is to quit eve in masses for let us say 3 months and to say: \"i'll be back in 3 months. if you haven't fixed it till then, i'll leave for another 3 months.\" and so on.. find 10000 accounts whose owner would support you and quit their subscription for at least a month and you may have success with that..."
"ccp,too much this time, don't say anything at least that what you do the best !let me help you on the lag and bug reports : ccp - 2 paying accounts !you are truly fabulous !you haven't yet answered the backlog issue officially.you make a mac patch and crashing windows pc cause of python dll not upgraded automatically. great one again. asking us to fix using the repair...well please change of dictionary or at least use wikipedia for definition of quality and customer support.let's see how many days prior 1.0.5 that fix 1.0.4 ?you send us long text to say us it's hard we work on work on...we were expecting results not just how may be we will change or architecture or restrictic what you can do in fleet. sure less people in fleet less lag...18 months prior what the same mess of bug and no finished features.i finish my prepaid gtc time currently running and you loose a 4 year player on 2 accounts.i invite my community/friends to enjoy an other place !was nice to fly with you all !yeay"
"1.0"
"bumpps:the best reason to train gal right now is for angel faction ships."
"my bs still goes over 1200 m/s(obvious it isn't a mega). a mega in 2006 did 1250-1400m/s, depending on the mwd, before they added mass to the mwds.a 90% web was 4 times stronger than a 60% is now. if you want more range there is still caldari, amarr or mini, dps is quite comparable in general game play. i for myself don't see any reason to increase range, there are a lot ships that can do this already."
"when i made a character as gal, many gal guys were beside of me.but now, most of them transfered to min and amarr include me.now gal is absolutely bad.why someone don't agree this?even if you could use all guns and ships, you choose gal?"
"xorv i have taken class that teach you how to take notes in class and classes that teach you how to teach yourself and classes that teach you how to take test. so i would have to say that there are learning skills in real life and classes for thoughs skills."
"i think she is pointing out that \"\"before you post next time i recommend you take a basic reasoning class... \"\" would probly be a learning class."
"mybe not but there are learning classes in real life that can teach you to read faster learn faster and test faster and get better grades."
"then she completely missed the point. basic reasoning classes teach you how to present logical structured arguments and be aware of fallacies etc. it gives you something tangible. much as a skill in eve like diplomacy improves your relations with hostile factions, or nanite engineering which allows you to use research agents in that field. if i spend time training one of these skills, i am learning, this is true. but then what are 'learning skills' and why do we need them in eve?there are basic reason classes courses in college and uni, they're usually part of the philosophy department and are first year courses. i've seen workshops that are effectively there to help you learn.. learning skills i suppose. but they're not needed nor taken by most students, and only occupy a few hours for those that do. the more appropriate representation of this would be the tutorials for starter characters, not lengthy skills that actually need to be trained for potentially months. when you get down to it, there's only one reason for the learning skills in eve and that's to add a time sink. and in that respect i understand why some of eve's community want to keep them, because there's always been some mmorpg gamers that love time sinks and grinding that divides those that have jumped through the hoops of tedium and those who have not or will not. perhaps to those same people this equates also to depth and choice, to the rest of us however, it is pointless tedious time sink and nothing more."
"i will remain patient.has there been any word from the planning meeting yet?"
"supported."
"yup."
"+1 supported!"
"-1 not supported."
"anything that helps cut down on the potential of rsi from pi is warmly supported..."
"signed!"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed )"
"signed"
"bump"
"signed !"
"why we should be special?"
"signed"
"signed"
"signedsignedsigned"
"signed"
"signed for qty ore in belt's =___________="
"signed"
"signed!"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed!"
"signed"
"as it is right now, most pos modules are unusable by alliance members because of the restriction on corp hangar access to corp members only. i suggest that this be remedied by adding a roles table to be applied on accessing the corp hangar of any pos module that is set for use by alliance by a character that is in the alliance but not in the corp.this would finally allow renting or otherwise sharing pos assembly slots and lab slots to alliance members, opening up possibilities that have be unavailable since the restrictions on corp hangar access were first added. furthermore, it would do so in a predictable and controllable way."
"i've never understood how you can share a ship maint. array.but not a corp hanger array.understandably this compounds the theft thing but that's a big part of eve.i'm in favor of it as it would make life easier in whs."
"for the love of god yes!i can share sma's with my alliance mates, why can't i set one corp hanger to alliance yes, and another alliance no, just like the sma?fix eet!edit:hi drake!"
"wholeheartedly supported!it makes doing alliance wide operations a pain in the butt. especially in mining ops and such.if you have an orca that is not in your corp, you can't have the haulers take stuff from it, because it's not their corp's hangar. ( you can configure it to accept stuff, but you can't see what you dumped ).also, alliance posses can't be accessed at all, because you're not in the same corp. having some way to configure certain hangars for alliance wide use would be aweseome. it would mean you could have a bunch of ships and whatnot ready for use in hangars, and when the pos is attacked, all alliance members could go and grab one, to defend the pos, in case the ship they came in got blown up.maybe also some way to allow alliance members ( not in the same corp ) to anchor structures onto a pos that is configured to do so as well? like, installing guns, or onlining them, or putting up some extra hangars or whatnot?a mechanic to allow use of well, anything in the pos, would also be very usefull."
"<insert approving comment here>would also be handy if alliance members with the right roles could use the pos guns..."
"very much supported."
"definitely supported!"
"1.0"
"supported"
"recently, i've become disappointed to learn that strategic cruisers grant only a dismal 5 locked targets. this strikes me as particularly odd, given that every tech-3 ship recommends \"core competency - standard\", and in turn \"targeting v\" and \"multitasking i\".tech 3 ships fill a myriad of roles, sometimes taking on positions as ewar, logistics, and damage all in one fight. expecting them to do this adequately with only 5 targets is not reasonable.simply put, the targeting subsystems of these tech-3 ships leave something to be desired. when even the lowly thrasher boasts 6 target locks, shouldn't the tengu or loki be able to exceed that without burdening itself with autotargeters?tl;dr: increase strategic cruiser maximum locked targets value from 5 to 7."
"i too find this really annoying, and i would prefer to see this changed (since i fly them regularly). however, if it is a means to have some semblance of balancing vs non-t3, then i think i can live with that"
"if this purposal was more along the lines of \"make one of the subsystems offer more maximum targets,\" i would be for that.however, a t3 cruiser is still a cruiser. yes, its a pimp-mobile. yes, its meant to more powerful and more adaptible than the t1/t2 cruisers. but asking for it to be given the same max targets of a bs is a little absurd."
"a thorax, a tech 1 cruiser, has 6 target slots. buff all subsystem's max target locks to at least 6, and maybe more on the dissolution sequencer."
"supported."
"given devs can hand out items in the reward system to everyone instantly (as they did with the supercap testing) there is most likely an option to do sp easily as well"
"wow, thank you t'amber your awesome, and thanks for all the input and thumbs up to this idea from everyone else. my original post didn't get much attention , ty again t"
"just wanna throw this in... from over in tanis's blog about mass tests...partial win? woot (ok maybe a little different than op, but it's an idea i've had since before t'amber posted it but almost the same thing)moar support!"
"i would hope this is so utterly obvious it's not a needed suggestion... but then again..."
"not supported unless i get control (i'm a pitboss in real life)seriously though, there are people who offer these services already (except roulette i believe) and there could possibly be issues with some countries laws which is probably not worth the hassle.-t'amber"
"no strip poker...not supported"
"+1 supported!"
"why oh why cannot ccp address the need for a countdown to the expiry date on the character selection page ? ? ? ?surely it would be better for the players not needing to log into eve central to see how much time is left until the account expires ! ? ? ?come on ccp , look after your paying people a lot better"
"there already is one. it becomes visible when you have 10 days or less on your subscription. works just fine but feel free to continue to rage and capitalize odd words in your sentences."
"it doesn't seem to work with all payment options - some accounts i have get it, other's don't. i really should pay attention to which billing methods generate it."
"right. it only shows up if you prepaid and not if you canceled a recurring payment. i don't think it works with paypal either."
"confirmed -- if you pay via plex, for one, it doesn't tell you.supported."
"supported! i've never seen it, and my accounts usually run out because they're on a card that doesn't usually have money on it. of course i just transfer money over to it, but it's annoying to have my accounts run out because of this."
"i rather it say how long i have left no matter what...."
"yes just in time lol better late then never"
"supported."
"first let me say i support this idea cause i can see it making 0.0 acctualy more dangerous again, as it should be in my eyes.i however have some concerns / questions :what would you do about persons that leave their charackters in stations after being kicked from the corp? they would not have standings and could not be force dropped out of the station by anyone, yet have full access to local? i am against the idea of making it a module. it would surely favor a forward scout on roams but it would be a cutback on making it more dangerous, as local is like half the intel you can get.i see option 2 as reasonable and good and would like to see an attention message in local when such an object is anchored. like \"danger, communications servers are taken over by an outside force. firewalls at xx% and falling...\" or so.maybe even go so far, to give the aggressor who anchored the building the control of the local channel? alternatively you could give it a timer for different layers to be breached until full control is granted. (but nothing with invulnerability stuff like on buggy sbu)one of the main issues with hacking would however be, to determine as in how far the invading factions standings are considered. for example you anchor building x and get access to local. would your allied alliance y have access aswell, due to their standing towards you?would there be a limit for buildings of that kind to be anchored (like giving the possibility for a 3way battle)?"
"currently there is no confirmation when cancelling market orders, leading to annoyance when accidentally cancelling instead of modifying an order as the items are next to each other on the menu.i therefore propose addition of a confirmation dialogue to alleviate this annoyance"
"yes please!most of my order cancellation errors have been due to lag where i hover my mouse over the modifier button but in reality it's over the ****ing cancel button.losing millions-billions in fees and taxes is not ****ing funny"
"defo supported."
"or, you can just take a second to click the right option for 0.01 isk price wars. if you can't, that means you have too 0.01 isk price wars go on at the same time, and should undock and enjoy the scenery for a bit."
"as long as it has a tick box for \"i don't need a billion warnings, sod off\" on that warning message..!"
"i got my spaceport full .as a result i cannot prosess all the rap i have at once, i have to do it in batches. yes, i have alot of crap, but i also got alot of isk and time, i whant to be able to upgrade my spaceport/any other storage unit beyond 10 m^3 capacity."
"i would like to thank all who replied so gently to my suggestions - or perhaps i could classify them as ill-considered fantasies.i appreciate the willingness of those who have gone before to help those of us who are noobs or newbies, not only in the forums, but in the whole of the eve experience. it is a true indication of the quality of character attracted to the game. while i still wish for the capability to defend myself from a flipper, i may convert from mining barge to battleship mining for one of my characters to all for this in certain situations.again, thank you all for your time and consideration of my wistful thinking."
"as stated, the hulk is the epitome of mining ubersauce.when it comes to jet can mining, and having your stuff stolen, i feel for you.which is why i also went with the max cargo fit. but then i took it a step further.- a hulk with 2x cargo i rigs, and 2x cargo ii mods can carry 17199 m3.- a giant secure container takes up 3000 m3, and holds 3900 m3 (30% bonus).- a huge secure container takes up 1500 m3, and holds 1950 m3 (30% bonus).- a large secure container takes up 650 m3, and holds 780 m3 (20% bonus).so a hulk can hold 5x gsc, 1x hsc, and 1x lsc, with a grand total of 22,230 m3 in containers, plus an extra 49 m3 in the hold itself.the only trick, is to kick 2 empty gsc out, to make room for the ore to fall in the hold initially. then you keep it inside the ship, and only fill those 2 gsc when everything else is topped off. that way, there's nothing to flip but 2 empty cans."
"undocking game players won't like this.what they should do instead is making \"gaint secure containers\" not so tiny."
"no you shouldnt be mining alone anyways.can mining is only effective with orca support, who can tractor the can and hold the ore for you.the easist way to defend your jet can is have someone else pick it up. there is no other way around it.the best solution is to not mine but do mission or trade"
"hello,ccp -2 paying accounti will make the point internally it will not be an issue cause at eleast on our side we are organized.was good to fly with you all !good lag and bugs ccp,yeayedit : change title to be clearer"
"surely wrong forum? anyway, can i have your stuff?"
"can i haz ur stuffz?"
"all my stuff goes to my members.the accounts will not be sold.paying ccp again...already paying too mutch for a lag screen and 18 months of nothing change.yeay"
"moved from assembly hall"
"everytime someone mentions the 18 months bullsh*t, i have a shot. right now i'm on my third liver. it's shocking how far a little misinformation can go. ccp isn't sitting on they're butts for the next 18 months to troll the forums. they're implimenting some shiney sh*t, but this unfortunately means that the spit and polish of existing content is taking a backseat. this doesn't mean they're not working on lag fixes and the like entirely, check out the devblogs released in the last few days."
"dev blogs are filled with nothing but hot air and potential. the proof is in the released product.exhibit a: ccp's push for excellence about a year ago. har har."
"im doing the same.... once the accounts are expired im taking a break from eve.. i find it harder n harder to stay online more than a few mins.for me the game has lost its fun and entertainment value."
"a \"push for excellence\" doesn't mean \"we'll be 100% excellent within a year.\" transperancy may be an issue (which the current dev blogs are doing a relatively nice job of clearing up, if you'd actually bother to read them...), but asking for a 100% \"completed-never-have-to-fix\" game is utterly ****ing ******ed"
"yeah that's true, 25% would be pretty cool though. hope we get there soon."
"that man talks the truthcan i has your stuff?"
"*indicate which scan is currently showing when in \"build\" mode. yes, i can click back to scan mode to be sure, and then reclick to build node to place my extractor/whatever, but why should i have to? sometimes i get distracted by corp chat or my dog or whatever, and i have to click back and forth. let's reduce needless clicking =) just add a line in the display where it says active scan: complex organisms (or w/e).*resizeable detail windows. routing tables are often very long. currently, i can only look at 5 lines at a time, and some of my routing tables have 20 or 30 entries in them. why can't i resize the window to be big while i set up my routes, so i can see all/more of them at once?*default to/from routing. like they showed in the helpful eve-uni video, it usually makes sense to route all your extractors and processors to/from a central hub point. it would be nice if i could set this behavior without having to go thru and manually route everything to one central point. maybe a \"route hub\" kind of pin that i could drop, or a setting on any storage/launchpad/command center structure?*make storage hub better, or just delete them. there's no reason not to use a launchpad, since they have twice as much storage for the same power grid cost. yes, the launchpad costs a little more, but not a significant amount compared to even a couple hours of production.*automatic flow throttling. if i try to put too much flow thru a pipe, getting an error is not fun. how about it automatically routes as much as will fit, instead? *set extractor cycle time on the command center. allow modification of individual extractors, if i want them to be on a different timer. either auto-cycle the extractors on the set cycle (please), or make me log in daily to run my daily quest... er, i mean, to click on each colony to restart the extractors...i understand that ccp doesn't want pi to be *too* passive (although datacores, moon goo esp pre dominion, and t2 bpos are all at least as passive as automatic extractor cycling), and secondarily that they want to encourage daily logins (this is why those daily quests in wow took off; they habituate user login). but, as a lot of other people have said more eloquently than i have, the clickfest needs to stop.and, aside from the clickfest, there are other problems in the ui (windows you can't resize, needless error messages, etc.) that i haven't seen anyone suggest or mention, so forgive the duplication on the clickityclick issue, and toss a thumbs up if you care to."
"world of warcraft does something similar, and i think that would be a good system to adopt here. each chat tab can be user-configured to show chat from multiple channels, and a slash-command is used to specify which channel outgoing chat is being sent to./15 the text typed here would go to whatever channel you specified as channel 15 on your interface."
"a problem with learning skills, they put noobs off the game? the problem was the idiots in the noob help channel spamming 'train learning skills first!!!'' at all the new players, when better advice was to encourage them to train up what skills they needed to make a start in game, and get on playing and enjoying themselves, then to train learning as they went along.this situation has unfortunately been compounded by the present character creation system, which lets face it, is more geared to the creation of alts than for completely new players. this, i believe is where you should be focusing your attention.why are people supporting the idea of removing learning skills? simple, self-interest, everyone has their eye on the bundle of skill points that they hope and expect to receive to re-allocate. they want to escape the consequences of choice they made in game, always he worst impulse in eve.this whole endeavour is misdirected, in my opinion, what needs addressing is the present character creation system, and we would be better served by discouraging ccp from implementing the trend towards skillpoint re-allocation."
"yep. the best thing we can do now is take note of the 4 csms that spoke out and voted against this proposal and make sure they get our votes next time and the others don't. this issue, more than any other, probably decided where my csm vote will go next round."
"as someone who has tried to get friends into this game, i'm a big fan of removing learning skills. the 3 main problems i've had: 1) tutorial very boring, 2) they make it through the tutorial but do the math and start doing learning skills and interest is gone when they are done, 3) no customizeable avatar that they can identify with (female friends for this one). i'd love to see something done about #2, as its hard to maintain interest in eve in those initial stages and realizing that the best thing they can do long term is to not play the game for a few days/weeks at the start certainly doesn't help things. sure, they could not train learning skills. however, the typical gamer who might be interested in eve is typically going to be the type that tends to min/max to some degree and telling them not to train learning skills conflicts with what seems to be the best \"long term\" plan. i also disagree with any notion that learning skills add something to the game. what do they add? there is no long term customization since you need them all except maybe charisma. its not like you can train 1 learning skill to 6 and the others only to 5 or something. when i make choices training in eve, i need to choose between different ships or specializing more in 1 ship or learning a new one. there is no similar choice w/ learning skills because i need perc/will for all the ship/weapon skills and i need int/mem for all the support skills. all they seem to add is a patience test for how long can you wait to train real skills in order to benefit long term. i personally think we've got enough patience tests in eve, and removing the learning skill one will be a nice improvement to the game."
"hi,i'm one of those unfortunate noobs who recently created an account, focused on my learning skills, and i'm now working toward others. (actually i created the account several months ago on a trial, real life came up, and i just got back to the game last week, but still: new player.)after reading the minutes of the meeting, i would like to offer some feedback as a new player. 1. there was some concern in the minutes that refunding sp to everyone would hurt new players more than help them because of the amount of sp the veteran players would recieve. i offer this as a possible solution--though i understand it could be quite the headache from the coding side. perhaps refunded points from learning skills could only be reallocated to skills with the same training time multiplier. for example: points that have been refunded to me from analytical mind (x1 multiplier) could be invested in mining, or other low multiplier skills. but not deep core mining (x6 multiplier.) it would minimize the negative effects on newer characters that invested their initial time in learning skills, while giving veteran players who may have chosen to ignore certain skill groups a chance to invest them, and at the same time not 'widen the gap' as it were. 2. offer characters a different avenue for increased skill progression that does not slow down initial game progression and exploration.my 'problem' with skill progression as a new player is that by investing the time to max out learning skills i create a lull in my game play where i have zero motivation to play my character until other skills 'catchup'. the inflated game economy has made it so i have already purchased a bigger, better, ship for mining--one whose hold size makes it the equivalent of 23 mining trips on my current frigate. it seems kind of silly to mine anything in my frigate for the next 4 days while i want for my ship flying skills to catch up. so: i've done my starter missions, i have my newer, better ship waiting for me, and my skill progression is on a static time table, what can i do? no much. so i don't log into the game.so i suggest two very different ways to replace the learning skills that would make character development a bit faster, and a bit more player orientated: a) implement primary/secondary stat increases from capping out skills with lower multipliers in their respective disciplines. example: taking 3 ranks of industry before learning 1 rank in mass production, vs: taking 5 ranks of industry before learning 1 rank in mass production. taking the time to gain 5 ranks of industry first would shorten the time it takes to learn 1 rank mass production. (obviously it would still take longer overall learning 5 ranks + 1 rank, vs. 3 ranks + 1 rank 1, but that that 1 rank in mass production--and subsequent ones, would be faster. the character increases their stats/learning speed of higher skills by completing the ranks of their lower ones.orb) grant bonus skill points from completing missions related to the discipline you are training in. if i'm waiting 10 days for strip mining to finish, it'd be nice if i could speed up the process by doing mining missions in the game. maybe work towards removing a day or two off the clock. it's not much, but it gives me an excuse to play the game.i know most of you vets don't need that, you have other skills that allow you to do other things while your current skills are training. however as a new player in a frigate, you're a bit limited in your choices, and it'd be nice to have missions increase the rate you learn your desired skills. thank you for your time!"
"low sec is non competitive for several reasons, and isk generation is only one of those; low sec is much more stressful.people returning from work and wanting to relax don't want to stay at maximum alert while mining or ratting. for a lot of them high sec is the perfect ambient to do that. not all people are adrenaline junkies that want the excitement of fake danger. and not all people feel the adrenaline rushing when they have a pvp encounter. for me the standard reaction is on the lines of \"another nuisance, uff \".most low sec pvp is so devoid of reason to be beside \"another killmail\" that i find it totally uninteresting (not that high sec wardec are much better). i find much more interesting the market and the industrial activity, something that is seriously hampered by low sec. eve is a sandbox and as a sandbox it cater to all kinds of playstiles, you want it to cater only to your stile of gaming. what make you better than the other players?"
"are you sure this proposal is really \"resolved\"?i don't remember seeing this feature in any of the recent patch notes..."
"so many great idea's, so little dev love."
"such a great idea!"
"not supported, because it perpetuates the idea that plexes should exist in the first place. if you are not a roleplayer, plexes are boring work for effectively no reward at all. if you are a roleplayer,they are boring and entirely arbitrary work for the reward of having served your country in some utterly unquantifiable and illogical way.why were these tactical sites built in deep space, rather than in proximity to important things, like moons, planets, stargates or stations?why do the beacons need a capsuleer to \"secure\" them?what does \"securing\" them actually do, and why does a capsuleer orbiting one for an entirely arbitrary length of time make it somehow impossible for a capsuleer on the same side to do exactly the same thing?why, in a plex being contested by an enemy, don't all the reinforcement waves just warp in at once and kill him? why don't reinforcement waves warp in to back up a friendly capsuleer under attack?why does a defensive plex being revealed by a friendly capsuleer cause it to show up in local?why are you not given rewards for running plexes in uncontested systems, when securing these plexes ensures that they will not be attacked by the enemy?why are capsuleers from an allied militia fired on, but someone clearly capturing the plex is not, as long as they have positive standings with the faction the plex belongs to?why are plexes not brought online where they're needed (i.e. deeply contested systems), rather than in a completely random distribution? why are capsuleers given loyalty points for killing each other - destroying entirely replacable assets with other entirely replacable assets - but not for capturing plexes?why would any of the factions entrust immediate and vital matters of national security to capsuleers, who almost never do anything that's not either profitable, fun or both?plexes don't need to be revamped, they need to be replaced utterly, and all evidence that they ever existed needs to be cleansed with holy fire."
"actually a very good point you bring up, why have plexes?what could replace them though, some sort of activity metric like you have for 0.0 indices?tonnage player ships destroyed?tonnage/value npc ships destroyed?ships in space over time?what should differentiate offensive/defensive values if anything (personally never understood why capsuleers needs to \"defend\" with not hostiles in sight)?ps: i would hate to lose the size restricted nature of plexes as it is a godsend for fun/challenging fights, but if a superior system could be devised it is a small sacrifice to make."
"this! (well said, ag)as the famous quote goes, \"the time for talk is through.. now is the time for action\" (or something to that effect )i left eve about 6 or 8 months ago and decided i would only come back on occasion, just to see if things have been fixed (or even touched).... i've been back for about two weeks now (thanks in part to a \"please come back, we miss you! here's a free week\" e-mail) and as soon as my month is over (yeah, a week isn't long enough, i subbed for a month) i'll probably be gone again. a couple of recent dev blogs may sway me to stay, if they keep talking like they have been, but only for long enough to give them a chance to show they finally get iti love this game and love the players, but the attitude is beyond my tolerance level.. i completely understand \"quantity over quality\" in most areas, but eve is not that type of game.. eve players are intelligent people. we don't play eve for something pretty to look at for a few hours. we play eve for a chance to live another life... if that life stays as screwed up as real life, we'll find another distraction (eventually)my biggest fear is that ccp realizes this and they realize the most money can be made by attracting people who are impressed by shinnies, and in their bid to gain more shinny-lovers they will completely ruin what could very well be the best game ever createdoh, and where's the \"fix rockets\" thread??"
"thx for the support, though i would like to make something clear. i am not playing eve for the chance to live another life and i don't think that it is as screwed up as rl. since at least my rl isn't srewed up at all. if i would need a chance to live another life, i would just change my rl.i am not blaming ccp for screwing up my sci-fi fantasy world. gaming is just a hobby. but i like games which are \"complicated\" and force you to think a lot, to analyze, to think strategically. and i hate it when companys start to put quantity before quality. unfortunately the most game developers do that. there are only few exceptions like blizzard. this is when stupid mistakes start to happen, like the thing with pi, where every 2nd semester economics student could have told them that this is going to happen. the qm of ccp seems to be broken, since the \"fix rockets\" thread is already 1 year old and nothing has happened yet. they even failed to scale the capitals appropriately. ccp seem not to realize that their clientel ain't a bunch of teenagers. eve clientel is demanding and wants quality.there is a nice example. daimler-benz tried to increase profits by decreasing quality in the 1990's. and it worked for a short period of time till the customers realized that they were buying expensive crap. after this short period of time (couple of years) the revenue of mercedes dropped dramatically and the costs for guarantee items increased at the same time. maybe ccp needs to make their own experiences..."
"perhaps there needs to be a second proposal that 18 months is too long. this one supported nonetheless."
"supported"
"supporting this.and while you're at it, make all tier 3 bs hyperion sized :)"
"supported"
"seriously ccp, we all know these are hard economic times. here i present an idea which will make you rich and keep your userbase well fed.i suggest you open up a worldwide chain of pizza delivery joints where you can pay with plex. you can even recycle the ship fitting window code for toppings design :)"
"as crazy as the idea is, i support it for this reason alone."
"this :d"
"300 million isk for a pizza?ehhhhhh.better be one damn good pizza."
"lolsupported for the epicness."
"quoting and supporting for emphasis.edit: just don't make it some **** like dominoes."
"do want"
"yeah. just think of the joy when you order a pizza, it comes 1h overtime, is cold and also the wrong indrigents on it, while the only answer the delivery boy has to your complains is...our logs show nothing.definately supported :p"
"this, so many times, this! but it better be one tasty pizza."
"definitely yes, would be perfect for all the ctas that demand players stay near their computers at all times."
"we expect to get some information soon, but it may be a little while before we can say anything. keep in mind that ccp traditionally has been very reticent to talk about a particular item until they are sure that they can deliver the goods.while we understand their caution, we hope that increased communication between ccp and csm, and between ccp and the players, will foster an environment where ccp can be more forthcoming at an earlier stage, and where the players are more accepting of the fact that sometimes stuff has to go on the back-burner when the fecal matter hits the rotary impeller."
"i didn't really expect a detailed roadmap to the next release at this point.something like \"meeting's over, all big questions were addressed. we will sort out the details, wrap it up nicely and get back to you in 2 weeks\" would have been awesome.especially since that is something you can plan with. \"soon\" is really next to worthless when you hear it from ccp as it can mean anything from 2 hours to 8 months.they tend to sit in their offices, silently thinking about the perfect solution and then it takes several kicks to make them realize a couple weeks have passed without them saying a word about what's going on.so it was kinda naive to hope there would be a timely update on the progress about this \"urgent\" player input.at work i cannot always explain every little detail and sometimes i don't even have all the information myself.but i can always give a summary about what happened and whether i think we're making progress or we're falling behind schedule.it appears the second category is completely unknown to ccp."
"supported. god this would be useful."
"yeah, so i'm slow...+1"
"supported"
"i don't use missiles that often since i fly mostly gally (don't get me started on hybrid and drone issues), but when i do want to fit missiles, rockets would be quite handy...if they actually did anything.supported."
"bump"
"very good idea, i hate be primary on fleet fight in my alt who was nick a........+1"
"no. if you buy a corp thieve, its your problem. burn in hell. /not signed"
"if you do something stupid and require a name change - make a new character or suffer the consequences.if you want to buy an alt, don't buy one with a stupid name if you don't think you can handle it later.not signed"
"spies/scammers have been getting the exact same results, and avoiding consequences, by selling and buying a new char. the only difference here is that no 3rd party gets dragged into it."
"up +1"
"signed!!!"
"/signedeven the hordes who are there are bugged, i can find a bugged one every day. petition and bug report didnt changed anything for at least half year."
"signed"
"this!"
"i'd better give +2 max target locks on cpu efficiency gate subs."
"i and other have made multiple suggestions like this before but there was no skillpoint allocating system and dev time spent on sisi only features are a waste of time.-t'amber"
"sure"
"i pay with plex and i see it every time, it starts at 10 days left and if you don't check your account once every 11 days then no message is going to save you because you don't log on anyways.well with recurring subscriptions i don't see why it should tell you especially because technically your account is not running out of time. i pay for lots of online services and it works exactly like eve-online, if i set it to not bug me and automatically bill me then that is what it does. you really need to take some responsibility for yourself here. buy a calendar, program your phone or computer to remind you, just remember it, or set it up on an account that is not always broke; it is really not that difficult."
"sometimes its bugged for some characters iv seen it twice in 5-6 months and i have 2 accounts to pay for so about 10-12 months :p"
"although i never wanted to do something like this it is time to show ccp that their user base may start to falter if they do not take the need to bugfix seriously. if we take away the one thing that they have always been able to brag about which is their constantly growing userbase then maybe they will finally understand that keeping their userbase is just as important as adding shiny new things. i would never want to quit a game i have come to love this much but their complete ignorance to bugfixing (not just speeding up the game but fixing the broken parts of the game) and showing that all major fixes will not be attended to for 18 months is just plain sad.a few issues that have been ignored just to remind you. - rockets - user interface - factional warfare!!! - etc..i propose a 2 month mass break from eve to start around the month of october."
"can i haz your stuffz?"
"while i agree ccp is being foolish....<insert explitive/insult> you/yours/you/off"
"gb2wowkthxbai"
"bump!"
"/supportedbtw. nice forum fight"
"supported"
"seems reasonable"
"supported"
"totally agree with this.inactive accounts should not be able to make progress in the game."
"proposal, reinstate the ability to target missiles/torpedoes, this is space if i can click on it i should be able to target it, watch it and arguably warp to them/bookmark them but i don't require that as ccp may have nerfed that for whatever reason they do that. the absolute minimum goal is regaining the ability to target enemy missiles, in space my ship should be able to target them and if i so choose do so and maybe even try shooting them down without equipping and firing crappy defender missiles. also i enjoy clicking on them and watching them fly to and fro their targets every now and then. it should be possible to allow targeting of enemy missiles at least and that doesn't mess with being able to bookmark/warp to them."
"supporting my own idea."
"there are warnings for less dangerous actions, why not this."
"honestly why this hasn't already been done is beyond me."
"or at least move it away from the modify button, please."
"oh gods, yes. if not for the lost fees, then for the whole \"which order did i just nuke?\" thing."
"do what i did, build another spaceport or build a storage silo.also if you used proper punctuation and spelling people might take you more seriously. /not supported."
"what the #### is a spaceport? are you talking about an outpost? or a pos?for that matter do you even speak english?wts - english"
"drake you fail at carebearing. he is talking about pi. ;)"
"will you win at speaking faileeze because i didn't pick that up.i've got members who pi all the time and the only thing they complain about is the many clicks it takes to get things done.if mr \"yahoo\" over there bothered to speak clearly and concisely it wouldn't be an issue.ps: obviously i don't do the pi thing.... been busy doing other things."
"i place all my extractors arund the same spot like this and i have no problems with depleation runing 23/h"
"if they add this feature i will hug someone."
"this is a restating of my proposal, after having at length considered the formatting of most other proposals and reading the stickied thread at the top of the forum i wish to see a 'save regional market to file' button in the market window. there is already the option to save an individual item's listing to a file and these files are used to update various sites that track the market.many people, however, (myself included) don't wish to update these market trackers because if they show where they're making a profit and what they're making it with, their market will be flooded. i understand this... corporate piracy, capitalism, and all out piracy in general seems to be the point of this game. i like that.in real life, i would write a program to parse all of the daily information about the stock market for each region of the world for tracking so that i could see where i would earn the most for my sales... and i would not share it with every other marketing company on the planet. that would be counterproductive. it would be sacrificing the edge i have over my competition.there is an in game market tracking graph but it makes no sense to me. numbers do. knowing what i can buy in one specific system and where i can make the greatest profit is the name of the game. it's how you get ahead in eve.i would like a button that would save the entire regional market to a file (no matter how big that file is) so that i can parse the entire file to a spreadsheet or database.following the acquisition of such a regional file i can write a program (which i will make available to the public) that will allow large scale market tracking for entire regions to be performed in a quick and simple way... i will not share the data... each user will have to save the file themselves to be imported into the program.i feel that this would be useful as it would allow each player to keep a searchable list of buy and sell orders and general market values for their own use, rather than relying on other people to be charitable in sharing their information (which the best marketing tycoons know never to do)"
"you noticed the little button on the bottom of the market window?that allows you to export the market log for the item in that region.you can then go and do what ever you want with that log.so no screenshots no manual writing down needed.and those online market tracker like eve-central or eve-metrics rely on users uploading logs.so when you upload your logs to them, they will be more accurate aswell.hthp.s.: i am quite sure that the market discussion subforum or eve technology lab subforum already have tools to make nice graphs/statistics from those market logs."
"i appreciate your input, but you're missing my point.i don't wish to help the player base as a whole track the markets i'm in. if i can make a 60m isk profit picking an item up in jita and dragging it somewhere else that's great. if i tell everybody about it then my market gets flooded and i can't make a profit any more... and that's not so great.i'm a capitalist. i'm not sharing.yes, there is a button that allows me to save an individual item's regional listings to a file which i can then write a piece of software to parse for myself. i then have to do that for 90 million other items one by one. i would also have to create a database item ids and another database for every system in each region i wished to collect data on just so that i could view it in an organized fashion. unless ccp decided to give me those id databases or i could get them from eve central, this could very well take me the better part of my natural life.then i have to write a program to associate each of those ids with a name and drop them into a spreadsheet for private tracking.i would like ccp to help me simplify this process. i am fully willing to make the program itself open source when i'm finished... but i'm definitely not sharing my data. as i said... i'm a capitalist."
"i still remeaber this lol. welcome to eve.if you must solo can mine the best thing you can do is try to find a low pop system out of the way some were that few people pass though.and then you will still get can fliped just less often."
"no-one reads the comments sections of the blogs anymore =(."
"what did space end subscription do to you?"
"sure but it will be 18 months with any dominion feature change then no bug solving.they will incarna, dust, ...but not solve eve space. 18 months of bug resolution freeze.dominion bugs still waiting a solution since 8 months !"
"this concern is simply unfounded. any time you give players a lump sum of skill points it will benefit newer players more than older players. the gap between older and newer players is always decreased when this happens. you are not the only one who trained allot of learning skills when you started. so you will not be the only new player who will have the opportunity to dump those sp into different areas. that sp dump won't mean that much to a player who has years of training behind him."
"i personally agree with you, cearain, but in light of the controversial nature of the proposal and the close vote, i felt it was important to amend the proposal to reflect the concerns of the csms who were opposed. as you will see from the minutes, i proposed doing this after the vote."
"will be interesting to see if this gets done and what is in it. fixing lag is only 1 element of a very big picture, the amount of promised changes for small elements (rockets, af's for example) should be a solid focus point as much as giving me a ****ty incarna mini game that i will never use. a minimum of 18 months... that is before they will even look into the issues let alone develop fixes or roll out changes. it is a shame that such a large portion of the game will not see any love for 2 years.so these issues will be looked at in 18 months along with everything not related to walking in stations?overall very much a let down, pi brought a new set of industry which is no fun and anything but exciting. how they will make people fight over such pitiful planet side income is certainly a mystery."
"that is probably a mistake; i have a query in to ccp to find out what the real status is."
"thanks for the response."
"bumpityif they're unrelated to sov battles now, what's with balancing them by timers? why are we spending 4 hours putting these up in uncontested systems, click by click?it's not like we're not getting repetitive stress injuries fueling the damn things."
"players want this, devs seem to want this... just do it!"
"supported"
"yes please, this would improve immersion."
"very good idea.in my opinion, it could be useful to have 2 settings for the velocity vectors: absolute mode and relative mode. the first one shows the absolute speed of the ships respect to space (the usual velocity), and the other other setting shows the vector difference between their velocity and yours. in relative mode the lenght of the arrow should be equal to the distance that the ship covers in 1 second and thus it should be zoom dependent. some reasons to have this second setting too:this would really help to visualize transversal velocity and tracking issues.this would make more immediate to understand variations of the relative distance between you and your target (imagine you are orbiting someone, tackling him, and he turns on his overloaded mwd to get in range).in general there should be the option to chose between having the screen lenght of the arrows zoom dependent or not. in the first case it may help in assessing travel times, transversal speeds, tracking issues, while the second will help understanding where a ship is aligning to."
"nice idea. the two vectors may be shown together: the transversal isn't anything but the projection of the speed to the plane that is perpendicular to the distance vector and on which the other ship lies. so the two vectors would form the two sides of a triangle, which would make it easier to assess the speeds in 3d.of course it would also double the clutter, so it's to be considered... maybe options for the two and the user decides is best. i would always keep them both on in small gangs; i'd switch to the non small gang tab otherwise."
"guess i need to keep bumping it untill it get fixed"
"andreus thank you for your questions. i would start by drawing a distinction between game play issues and role play issues. to my mind the game play issues are generally more important but i do agree having a good role play backdrop makes the game much better. alliance tournament is an example of good game play but poor role play. it involves fun battles but its entirely contrived with made up rules. rvb would be another example of good game play but poor role play. the fights can often be evenly matched but why are they fighting eachother? i think the proposal would make for the best game play in eve. but let me also address your role play questions because i think that is very important too.i numbered your questions requesting what i consider role play explanations. i will give you your answers by number:q1) why were these tactical sites built in deep space, rather than in proximity to important things, like moons, planets, stargates or stations?q2) why do the beacons need a capsuleer to \"secure\" them?q3) what does \"securing\" them actually do, and why does a capsuleer orbiting one for an entirely arbitrary length of time make it somehow impossible for a capsuleer on the same side to do exactly the same thing?a1-3) this isnt explained. but as anyone who has studied history knows there are reasons why some troops need to be in certain places at certain times. its often better to have 100 men in a key place and time than 1000 men to late or misplaced. would this be the same for space battles? i would imagine so. how would it work? well i think we can only guess. but these plexes are apparently the places where some military presence must be at a certain time. i often imagine that what i am doing when i do a plex is giving a show of force. i fly for amarr. so i imagine that when a system goes contested that means that in that solar system there is unrest and support for the competing faction. if i show up in an offensive plex my presence somehow makes it easier for the rebels to do some act which will further promote the amarr empire in that system. whether that is scare off some sort of minmatar leader who was planning on crushing the rebellion or somehow supplying support for a ground based attack that the amarr want to work. is a plex some sort of important power generator that helps direct power to the entire solar system? i dont know. i guess the thing is it is clear that in almost all real wars so far there have been lynchpins . these lynchpins are places that would often seem otherwise unimportant. but in the war for whatever reason they are important. hence the concept of making sure we have troops in certain areas for certain amounts of time is definitely well founded by real world warfare. i agree ccp could do a bit more back story to spell it out more, but in the mean time a bit of imagination can fill that in. why are they size limited? i think this can be explained many ways. 1) way would be direct orders that your militia said you are not to commit too many resources to this plex. so you can only commit frigates to that plex etc. i admit this doesnt explain why non-militia cant enter the plex with bigger ships. but maybe its because when pirates come in they are pretending to be in one or the other militias in order to get through the gate. hence they need to be in the right ship. its not really explained but it could be explained in a decent way. the ship restrictions on plexes are just too damn nice for game play reasons to give up due to a lack of imagination on the role play front. continued next post"
"q4) why, in a plex being contested by an enemy, don't all the reinforcement waves just warp in at once and kill him? why don't reinforcement waves warp in to back up a friendly capsuleer under attack?a4) i dont know but my proposal does away with npcs and therefore this issue. so to the extent this is troubling to you should support my proposal. q5)why does a defensive plex being revealed by a friendly capsuleer cause it to show up in local?a5) i agree. i think the plexes are well known to be hot spots or lynch pins by both sides and should at the very least be displayed on the overview of everyone in faction war. the idea that you have to probe out what is a hot spot or lynchpin is silly. especially when there are npcs already there but even with out them there both sides should have the intel and be able to inform their army where they need to go fight. the generals in the empire shouldnt just be like ok troops go on out there wherever and try to find someplace important to fight for! every pilot would have these important points programmed into their overview of their ship and updated automatically by the command structure. q6) why are you not given rewards for running plexes in uncontested systems, when securing these plexes ensures that they will not be attacked by the enemy?a6) im not sure. i agree that if you secure anything you should get some reward. but that is truly beside the point of my post. i am trying to make plexing into something that would require pvp skill and be fun. how much or when to reward it is a separate issue.q7) why are capsuleers from an allied militia fired on, but someone clearly capturing the plex is not, as long as they have positive standings with the faction the plex belongs to?a7) i agree thats silly. my proposal ends this. there would be no npcs so the players would be the ones taking and defending the plexes. i dont think the players will refuse to fight war targets because they have a high standing with the militia.q8) why are plexes not brought online where they're needed (i.e. deeply contested systems), rather than in a completely random distribution? why are capsuleers given loyalty points for killing each other - destroying entirely replacable assets with other entirely replacable assets - but not for capturing plexes?a8) well again i look at plexes similar to hot spots and lynch pins of wars. not everyimportant battle occurs at a seemingly important place. why did major battles occur in the places they did? well there are reasons of course but those reasons are often well beyond the cursory backstory we have in eve. what are the major trade routes for the populations in all these solar systems? which planets are most important in each solar system from an agricultural, industrial or political view? i mean we know almost none of the *very basic* information on these solar systems, let alone the very nuanced information as to why a certain place might need troops more than another. im not sure what you mean by entirely replaceable assets. i suppose anything that can be rebuilt is entirely replaceable. what do you mean? q9) would any of the factions entrust immediate and vital matters of national security to capsuleers, who almost why never do anything that's not either profitable, fun or both?a9) i see capsuleers different than you. i think we are the best of the best. one capsuleer is worth 1000 npcs. the armies are thrilled to have us on board"
"please, oh please give ishkurs the 10% drone damage per level bonus that they so desperatly need. all other gallente drone carriers have it (vexor, myrm, domi). i mean, you don't have to include the 10% drone hp bonus (even though it'd be nice too), just at the very least give us the damage bonus!"
"supported"
"no support, not broken.you need to adjust your tactics to meet the new reality."
"and how long will this go on for untill anything will happen?"
"please read this entire post before responding or giving your approval or disapproval!one of the reasons i started playing eve is because \"it's a thinking mans game\"when i watched the 2008 fan-fest video of ccp play testing incarna i had a rush of questions.why does this look like second life and not like the nvidia apex video?why dose the avatar have his boxers surgically attached to his skin like a ken doll? then as he approached an exotic dancer i could not help but notice two things about her. she was not nude and did not appear to have a *****.i scratched my head and said out loud \"wait a sec this is a gallente stations where the hell is all the futa?\"in closing there are many great qualities about this game and even more on the way that will make most of us never want to stop playing. however i do not want incarna to be without futanari and casual nudity where appropriate. so please if you support the idea of more options and a more realistic and immersing experience then give your support. tl;drdo you want nudity and futanari in incarna?"
"this is hilarious moar futa!"
"who wouldn't want ****girls in their favourite space-themed mmo?"
"please! think of the children!"
"thinking mans game.. not thinking boys game..filtering of this content is very easy to implement and the implementation of it is not part of this discussion."
"yes to futa"
"this."
"yes for the fun of it yes yes yes ^^ moaaar futa"
"we definitely need more futa in this game."
"moar cowbell!i mean futa."
"our approval icons will blot out the suns!"
"no."
"i endorse this product/service.time to get my jita alt to speculate on the exotic dancer market..."
"no."
"this will be dealt with!"
"this is eve online... not ****o online.no.(ain't gonna happen..too many international law implications)"
"1/10this thread has attracted some really bad trolls."
"pot calling kettle black much?"
"this thread is now about kickout stations and how we all feel about them."
"everything in eve should have a ***** on/off toggle switch, including ships. i would also like table and chair legs to be in the shape of *****es.also, there are some amarr ships that don't quite fit into the overall *****-shape theme of amarran ship design. i'd like that fixed.chat roulette has set a high standard for ***** content and eve can't afford to wait 17 more months for more *****."
"big time support to have rails looked at."
"supporting a soon-to-be epic thread."
"ccpizza?"
"mmm, pizza."
"plex for beer should take priority imo."
"signed"
"this is an old thread posted before apoc 1.5 and the rig changes. now destroyers can fit 3 cheap small rigs. they get more of a boost from this % increase than t1 frigates because they started out with better stats. they get more of a boost from this than tech 2 frigs because tech 2 frigs only has 2 rig slots. the high alpha of destroyers make them extremely dangerous for all frigates. going from memory, i think a thrasher can do about like 240 dps (that may include overheat not sure) and have about 7k ehp! with its tracking bonus its hard to say how this doesn't destroy properly destroy frigates. those small guns are doing close to full damage. the hull is essentially the same cost as a t1 frigate so why would anyone ever fly a t1 frig if the signature of destroyers is reduced? boosting destroyers even further just makes t1 frigates (one of the funnest ships in the game) obsolete.in low sec i see *plenty* of destroyers. i don't see any need for a general boost. that said i do think a coercer should have 2 mids."
"i would love it if ccp could bring some value to this relatively worthless ship class."
"signed"
"felix dcat , 8, 50, 59, 69, 97, 113, 138"
"bfoster, 12,14,19,21,33,34,48,53,67,115"
"seconded - eve is all about consequences... there seems to be a whole industry of scammers trying to avoid them... why make it easier for them? also, if you can't live with your own invention then put your misnamed toon in the character bazarr and get another one. most people will decide their toon's name is awful long before they have too many skills to scrap and make another one anyway."
"having lived in both pre-apocrypha prov and post-dominion drone space, old prov was by far the better moneymaker.all bounty regions in eve have been boosted with more rats and access to high-end mins.drone space, a crap region to begin with, had min yields nerfed and the high-end min market was flooded as a result of grav upgrades on top of that. plus no faction spawns or drops, grav, or radar spawns. it isn't that much to ask that a nullsec region be capable of generating more profit than missioning in empire?"
"signed!"
"signed \ <U+043F><U+043E><U+044E>"
"sighned!"
"signed!"
"signed!"
"i would like to propose a change be made to the existing fleet chat interface.can fleet chat channels be modified to include the same settings capabilities as regular channels so the fc/wc and/or boss can create a message that shows up when a new member joins?this would greatly reduce a lot of unnecessary use of both voice and typed messages repeatedly asking questions such as \"what shiptypes\" and general maintenance questions that are asked each and every time someone joins a chat channel.just a suggestion, i think it may prove beneficial.rothgr bronn,royal order of security specialists"
"would be so nice to join fleet and read \"ship type: bc down looking for ewar location: system x at gate/station y\""
"they added this ingenious system into that fleet-finder doohicky a couple of patches back that allows you to put in a decription. most smart people add that stuff there and then when new people ask them they just say \"stfu read the fleet description you worthless carebear\""
"i would like to propose that if you info on any ship you see in the overview - or info any ship in your fleet, or your own ship, you would be able to see the \"signature id\" that would be given to someone combat scanning you.why?it would be nicer to be able to ignore your 'corps / fleets' signatures right off the bat and search for ships that are not yours.another chagne i would like to propose, is \"signature time\". from the moment you start scanning, a signature \"alive\" time would start on every signature. if you recall your probes and re-issue them, the timer continues. that way you can track the older ships in the system versus the young ones. (the new ones jumping in vs the ones hiding in the system. why?at time of war - it is very hard to scan down a ship with combat scanners when there are constantly new ships jumping into the system and out of one. but if you have patients, then you will star to see the 'older signatures' in the system."
"i was about to say...i've never tried bombing a gate, but i have tried bombing a wh entrance. and you get an error message of the bomb aoe reaches the wh itself. so when your reach is 5km, you have to park yourself precisely 5km away from the wh before you can start firing. and then you're only covering a portion of the wh, with plenty of real estate for traffic to come and go unabated."
"nowadays you can't activate smartbomb if the gate or station is in range, sometime back you could. also in lowsec you could meet smartbombing motherships that couldn't be tackled(heavy interdictors didn't exist)so it's much better now, stop whining."
"a bit long winded, but my two cents.....the long.... eve releasesthe short....proposed suggestion: ccp should have three release per year if possible. one revenue generator, one user request, and one technical. each of these has a different focus and will require different voices to have authority over the release. it all about balance.revenue release usually stem from folks looking to make more profit for a company. ceos, cios, vps, accountants, bean counters (you guys are important and nesscary, but i am a little jaded)user releases are those request of new features, functionality, and fixes requested by the people who directly/indirectly effect the flow of cash coming into a company or section of a company.technical release come from the grunts (architects & developers) who gave their blood and sweat to form this mystical thing users wantnote: task for the release need to be specific. below are examples...fix pi is not detailed enough; improve the user interface of planetary interaction system to increase usability by presenting routed & un-routed goods in a on-screen visual method without requiring an individual to click on every extractor individual, is a lot more detail and something that can actually be worked.fix lag again is way to vague, improve the response time in client to server transaction to enable a more fluid game play is a little more detailed. this can be accomplished through network performance(f5s, hardware backbone setup to support large bandwidth of incoming and outgoing data), decreasing the amount of data required to be sent in transactions, or minimize the overhead needed for network handshaking."
"you want expansions to be created by accountants, \"bean counters\" and architects?how can an expansion be a revenue generator when they do not charge money for it?they only fix player-requested bugs once per year?all you show is a profound ignorance of how any business works, let alone ccp. here's a hint, focusing all of your workers towards one specific task at a time is a recipe for disaster. changing ccps entire release structure is no simple thing, you come across as shockingly arrogant and unintelligent."
"/signed"
"overly complicated, confusing, ccp is a game company (not a bank), not supported. if you want to make money, get a real job."
"issue resolved."
"i think you might be misreading that. item n3 probably means that being docked causes you to be seen, but that you might not necessarily see others."
"why the heck would you view that as a useful ability?seriously? did you even take the time to think about it?by the time you lock on to a missile/torpedo your too late...and you got many more headed your way.i'm sorry but this idea is just fail.not supporting.(i'd rather waste my ammo on killing the source anyway)ps: buff defenders or come up with a point defense system... but not that."
"that is one aspect of it and not the only reason, if that is all you see it as you should reread my post.it isn't about being effective in combat it is about something that was allegedly removed for 'creativity', which *i* think wasn't a valid reason to do it. but if people are whiney about it, i don't see warping/bookmarking your missiles as a necessity so don't let them do it but why kill something when it isn't required to do what you want? you want to kill that fly in your house do you burn down your house? do you smash it with a hammer, putting a hole in your wall/tv/etc, no you use the appropriate response to deal with it.here they killed something when all they needed to do was modify it."
"what does being in space have to do with being able to target anything and everything? this is earth, if i can put it in my mouth i should be able to swallow it. both of these statements use the same logic.i honestly don't see any valid point to this idea, and i think it would be a waste of time. unfortunately, not supported."
"one aspect? i alluded to several...but ok man...whatever floats your boat.how the hell is it considered \"creative\" to be able to target something designed to fly at a high rate of speed and impact before anyone gets the chance to react? the only missile you'd have half a chance of taking out is a cruise missile and people hardly use them in pvp for obvious reasons. making this idea clearly foolish to be sure.again... what the heck usefulness is it to bookmark a missile? think about this... your typical missile is going to be within 100km of your ship. is it really going to be that helpful? this is truly reaching at best. are you even thinking of the same kind of equipment? or something else?no i'm going to nuke the other house that's shooting said flies at me with near impunity and total destruction.... how or why you would say what you say is completely off the wall and certainly making everyone question your sanity.probially because it's a complete waste of time and no one's going to use it.again...if you had read my post before you decided to troll me you'd got a nice little hint of a even better idea.it's called point defense system.... makes defenders look like specks of sand in comparison."
"wtb laser based cwis system."
"not supported. i would only support the highsec part if autopilot warped to zero. high security space is called that for a reason, it's relatively secure, i don't have a problem with afk people. if someone walks away for 10 minutes to make themselves some tasty dinner during a 40-jump journey and sets their ship on autopilot why should they be a free kill if they're jumping in 0.5-1.0 security systems?the part about lowsec, enter at your own risk. i don't think concord should be able to protect anyone there, regardless of how long it takes them to arrive."
"+1.5 opgood idea and probably not too difficult to impliment"
"agreed 100%"
"despite not having a proposal or anything of merit in the op i support you 100%"
"hello,just to know.are csm making alone the meeting minutes or ccp want to see the content and adapt it to be 'marketingly in line' prior publication ?cheers,yeay"
"the regular bi-weekly minutes are created and edited by csm without ccp input.the most recent summit minutes were originally created by ccp, edited and expanded by csm, and then reviewed and released with minor edits by ccp. however, the final draft was not as broadly distributed within ccp for comment as some, in retrospect, would have liked."
"low sec is fine, stop trying to 'improve' it. and lets be honest, the only way to get carebears into low sec, is by turning it into high sec, nothing else will do."
"so in essence you would have a vector which is always of the same length (so it goes smaller as you zoom out) or a vector that grows relative to zoom level (so it stays the same size as you zoom out) ?of these two the vector that doesn't change it's relative size would be more useful even if it might 'vanish' when you zoom out far enough.actual math for the vector isn't even needed to be done on the server side as the client can easily draw it from the information that the server has already sent to your ov.so this change would require very little/nothing to be changed from the server side and some tweaking from the clients side."
"my idea features a vector that is always the same length, disregarding the zoom level. this has two advantages:- you can see the vectors also when zoomed out, so you can follow the general situation and drive your ship where you want- if you change the zoom a little, the vector won't change, so your assessment of the real speed based on the vector you see should be better.about lag, yep, all calculations should be client based. no lag idea ftw!"
"supported"
"without any dude, supported!"
"this is one hell of a threadnaught but yer supported !"
"supported"
"because highsec should be a safe happyland where everyone gets candy, holds hands, and sings together.tl;dr: gb2wowkthxbai"
"these suggestions all seem reasonable, i support them.also, all contracts from cromo effect shall be rejected."
"huh assembly hall must be no mods land."
"because of you, i googled the word futanari,and, do not wantfor those of you interested,"
"how the hell do you play a game like eve and not know what futa is? do you even read the chronicles at all? or do you just play the game with no idea what the backstory is?"
"i... i'm not sure what to say.the perverse side of me wants to say yes not just because of my anti-censoring ethos, but because it would probably do alot to keep the in-station population in check. [hypothetical situation]corp ceo: \"we're being camped in by war targets guys. what do we want to do?\"corpmate 1: \"we could walk around the station and wait them out.\"corpmate 2: \"wait... don't the strippers have ****s?\"*cricket noises*corp ceo: \"right, everyone get into a ship. we're undocking in 2 minutes.\"[/hypothetical situation]on the other hand, i realize that there are many prudes in the world and many of them are involved in government/politics. ccp would get a lot of crap from the censors about this sort of content.support pending."
"i apreciate your thaught out post. keep in mind not all the female strippers would have both between their legs.just the ones specifically labeled as futanari. this is canon with gallente culture. gallente are very liberal and tolerant of eroticism and various lifestyles and fetishes. amarr are the opposite so if you were in an amarr stations you defiantly would never see a stripper of any kind. because if incarna is holds true to the storyline, amarians see nudity in public as a sign of serious deviancy and a grave sin. i am not saying the gallente are kinky i am just saying that out of all the races they are the single most tolerent of different cultures and lifestyles. it even says that when you go to make a new pilot. the one fetish that is most mainstream in gallente is the concept of futanari or transgenderism. cross dressing and other form of defying typical gender roles and stereotypes are prevalent in gallente culture. the main reason i made this thread was because i could realistically see futa in station being completely ordinary and the norm in gallente stations."
"there are 3 other t1 ships in that class and a cormorant needs either an implant or a rig to fit t2 150mm rails if you are using the low slot for a magstab. i'm not really sure what awesome dps you are talking about the cormorant with t2 rails does with maxed skills 136 dps with 1 weapon rig at 25km with cn antimatter. even then you need to 2 ancillary current routers to make it happen. in long range sniper mode its optimal is 90km +11 falloff and does an amazing 79 dps you might as well be tickling the enemy to death.blaster cormorants are pretty much fail since even with null a frig can still be in point range and recieve no damage from a cormorant no matter what you use in the low and mid slots. not to mention that with the hybrid rig you don't have the pg for a speed mod so a frig can either kite you or disengage at will."
"i agree the corm isn't great. but since many frigs in low sec have an ab a corm with a mwd and rails can be quite effective at killing them. [cormorant, new setup 1]magnetic field stabilizer iicatalyzed cold-gas i arcjet thrustersmedium shield extender iifaint warp disruptor ix5 prototype i engine enervator125mm prototype i gauss gun, caldari navy antimatter charge s125mm prototype i gauss gun, caldari navy antimatter charge s125mm prototype i gauss gun, caldari navy antimatter charge s125mm prototype i gauss gun, caldari navy antimatter charge s[empty high slot]125mm prototype i gauss gun, caldari navy antimatter charge s125mm prototype i gauss gun, caldari navy antimatter charge s125mm prototype i gauss gun, caldari navy antimatter charge ssmall ancillary current router ismall ancillary current router ismall ancillary current router ithis ship will go 1500ms (overheat over 2098) 140 dps with 15k optimal and 6k falloff! (165 dps overheated) and has 5k ehp. yes if you can drop a scram on it then its dead but thats true of any kiter and this is one of the weakest destroyers. but the catalyst and thrasher are good and the coercer would be *very* good also if given a midslot. if the proposal was to do that i would support it. but again when combined with a decent tackler the coercer can really spit out dps. but whatever 50% of the ships in the class are quite good. thrasher is bordering on op imo. there are 16 t1 frigs only about 30% are good. there are 8 t2 frigates 3 are good. there are 8 interceptors 4 are good. there are 4 faction frigates and 2 are good. there are 4 pirate frigates and only one is good. :) but here is the most important thing. of all these ships you will see just as many thrashers out in low sec as any other frigate class ships except drams and rifters. destroyers are very common and very useful. they certainly do not need a boost. you would see more catalysts if it werent for all the thrashers. the thrashers are borderline oped so why bother with a catalyst? instead of a boost destroyers at most we really just need a thread to give coercers a second mid and possibly some more fitting room for the corm. but even there i dont see any urgency that *every* ship in eve be perfectly equal. t1 destroyers really do a good job destroying t1 frigates. i dont think anyone denies that after the rig changes. distancing them even further from the already hurting t1 and t2 frigates just doesnt make sense."
"i don't remember if i've supported this...edit: i hadn't. must've been horrendously drunk when i read it last, or something."
"/signedthe catalyst needs a boost and the coercer needs it too....this is a good solution"
"my destroyer... i use it only to salvage ^^"
"/signedall destroyers should have at least 2 med slots, 1 mwd 1 scram.there is no point to call a ship frigate killer when it cant point it. and no they are not supposed to 1-shot frigates nor all should fly arty thrashers"
"i do 90% of my exploration in low sec. mag sites suck in low sec compared to any other site. you may want to actually read my post before making yourself look ignorant. i get more salvage from 1/10 training site in high sec, than i do in a low sec mag site. now. go read my opening post again, and see what the complaint is, its that they do not balance with the other types of sites. all other types of sites, scale appropriately with whats expected. if you still don't understand that, then your comments are useless to the discussion."
"i can vouch for worm hole mag sites being worthwhile, and high sec really bad.it's possible to solo class 1 - 3 worm holes without needing a team."
"if this is a disguised attempt to shift value available in nullsec to highsec then not supported.risk v reward, chaps. if you want good magnetometric sites go somewhere risky."
"risk vs. reward isn't the only formula. there's also time invested, and currently, time invested into scanning down mag sites in high sec is absolutely worthless. you're better off doing any number of other high sec activities. this isn't a high vs. null sec issue, this is simply a high sec balancing issue. and it's a no brainer. of course null sec sites should be more valuable, but that doesn't mean the high sec ones should be worthless."
"noticed this was not on the list.what happened to representing low-sec improvements mynxee?i feel my vote was wasted!"
"i agree, i feel that lowsec has basically been abandoned even with a csm member who supposedly supports lowsec, my vote was clearly misplaced.even though this has been ver widely supported, and is the most comprehensive post for lowsec improvement it didnt even make it to a meeting it seems.i wont bother to update this thread, if anyone else wants to bother with what seems to be a hopeless cause, feel free.rico"
"keep up."
"signed!"
"the development time spent on enhancing your drone region even more is unnecessary. either you have **** refining skills are your doing it wrong. having ccp change your region so you make even more isk than the rest of us is just silly.like i said, the region is fine in balance with the rest of 0.0 regions right now. what next? have all regions exactly the same? no thanks, me along with thousands of thousands of players like diversity in our game, even if you don't."
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"sounds worthy of a sacrifice"
"not supported.i'm quite happy for stupid people to contribute to ccp's wealth, makes things cheaper for the rest of us."
"even sending half of that money would be a positive pr exercise. i mean, it'd certainly do ccp more good than hiring a pr company did them (i think you got scammed there imho ccp)."
"while i support the sentiment, the red cross would not be my organization of choice. upon further research, it looks like red cross has turned into one of those bloated institutions with ridiculous overhead costs. they have wide mindshare, which is good for pr and is what keeps them so large. not saying that they don't do good; but i think there are probably better organizations out there for your charity dollar."
"i support this idea."
"not supported.if you want to do something for charity then man(or woman) up and donate your own time or money. stop nagging other people or businesses to do it for you because you're too busy playing video games or just too lazy or stingy to help out yourself."
"i am not sure if this is been proposed to the csm yet, or even in this matter. corporate roles that relate to pos functions and access should be streamlined a bit further. the problem we face now, is that granting the necessary roles to research, or use production lines at a pos are the same roles that one would need to highjack corporate structures, and steal from corporate hangars. my proposal is to streamline a few of the corporate roles, possibly add a few that would make it simpler for granting roles to use pos services, at the same time, preventing theft. an example of the problem:a corporate has a new member, who has not yet vested enough time to be trusted with control over assets, but this member has some bpos they want to research.  a set of roles should be added that would allow that member access to the research slots at one of the labs, without having the ability to offline, and unanchore structures, and not having access to withdraw funds from corporate wallets. if the corporate in question does not apply rent fees to the slots, then there really should be no need for wallet permissions to begin with. (imho) same example would apply to any pos related services, from bp research, to assembly line production. since researching and production may require components of some type, be it data sheets, to materials. i think there should be a way for the new corp mate to be able to add the necessary items to the arrays, without taking something they didnt add, or create from use of the array. the idea would be to make it so that almost every member of a corporate could use services, but allowing corp ceo/directors to be able to control the finer details of corporate asset rights. so that new members can use certain services, without stealing, and so that vested members can have more elaborate access, and yet preventing theft of higher level access as well. hangar access on its own is a fine example, ceo and directors can directly control how each member can access hangars, but when it comes to using corporate structures, the access control is not so versatile."
"supported. corporate permission system is severely lacking at the moment.another idea to add: make online/offline access configurable per structure, like view and take access is. this allows to delegate people to maintain moon mining/reactions, which needs onlining/offlining silos; without them being able to offline the entire tower."
"supported.any attention at all to poss would be great. this is yet another angle that deserves consideration."
"tl;dr change t2 bpo from unlimited runs to 1000 so they eventually phase out of the game.currently owners of t2 bpo's control the t2 market. inventors have no change of competing with them due to a poor design by ccp on introducing t2. what was done is done.my main is heavy into invention and i own some t2 bpo's. after a lot of research on invention vs. the t2 bpo's it all comes down to the equivalent of the t2 bpo's being nothing but an isk printing press. invention has many gambles and risk compared to the t2 bpo having absolutely zero at all. sure as an owner i would be greatly upset by losing my printing press but it is for the best.my proposal is that all t2 bpo's be changed from unlimited runs to 1000 runs. this puts an expiration date on them but still gives them great value for now.yes i know that the module bpo's would run out first but they are not as valuable as the ship bpo's which rightfully so should be the way of things.us t2 bpo owners have been able to have our cake and eat it too for long enough. it is time to fix this broken mechanic.also, for those of you saying that inventing can easily compete with t2 bpo owners are lying your ass off hard core and you know it so stop the bull****."
"[issue]: oh god not this **** again"
"yes this again mr. i know everything there is about this game so please just echo whatever i write so i feel like some leet god amongst the rest of you pathetic players.well, its what you sound like to be honest. anyways, it is for the best of the game, not for the best for a t2 bpo owner.just try to thing about what is best for the game and not is what is best for just you for a change."
"no, i don't know it. invention is pretty profitable in most items, and for the other items, don't invent them then!also, changing them to 1000 run bpcs will suck for drones, and still last forever for battleships. your proposal sucks.yes, i do invention.edit: and i can easily make 50% profit on the items i invent, i see nothing wrong here.stop poasting."
"50% ehh? bpo owners make 100% profit because they invest zero isk into having something to make the t2 item.there are a ton of items that no one bothers to invent because it is not worth it. why invest into an item when you will always and i mean always be easily undercut by a t2 bpo owner.ccp introduced invention because the t2 bpo lottery was fail. it is time they finished the job. as an experienced inventor and holder of several t2 bpo's ranging from ammo, to modules to ships, i know for a fact it is time to get rid of them."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"yea 50%, and if some are unprofitable, then don't invent them, there are plenty of other things to invent. it's really that simple.i'd also say a good number of bpo owners also bought their bpos, which means they don't actually see a profit for more than a couple years. yea, the original holders are making 100% profit, but i really don't care."
"cromo's history of stupid ideas:1: you fly freighters without escort into lowsec/0.0 space and then blame the superacarriers that hot dropped on your shiny ass...made a post saying to remove them/nerf them.i got my freighter ganked.2: you do mining ops without adequate escort....so you blame pvp'ers saying that they have too much power and should get nerfed just because your there. (lets be honest here really)emo-rant on getting gankedcurrent rant:3: now your *****ing about how hard it is to do invention so what do you do? you blame the t2 bpo's.edit:4: complaining about coad in some sort of random but doesn't make any sense type of way. (not worth linking)now i ask you people.... is this the kind of guy we should even bother giving any amount of credence?what's next? remove war-dec's because he can't do what he wants to do in high sec space?"
"t2 bpo owner spotted. you make it so obvious. and as far as your lies above about me, well, they are just that. you twisting my words into something that you desperately cling to hoping it will help your fail argument turn into something people will agree with. so sorry, but once again you have failed miserably.better luck next time troll."
"if owned one...i'd throw it away. (maybe keep it as a museum piece but seriously... its worthless... and that's just what i picked up from the professionals who do tech 2 inventions for a living and make a killing at it.)they are worthless.wake up and smell the roses nooblet... your just not that bright.ps: lies? looks like i found your \"lies\"... enjoy. (edited previous post)"
"i don't own one but there's really no need for this.not supported."
"i don't own any t2 bpo's when i first started it seemed crappy, that some players get/got to have them free but guess what many players got nothing and even more players sold their t2 bpo's to other players for billions/millions. it isn't fair i don't have multiple billions or trillions of isk, please convert all billions to millions and trillions to billions to make it fair. while we are at it i don't have a hundred million sp let's take away half of all characters with 50million sp or more, to make it fair, i can't compete with their sp totals. also, for you saying that all t2 bpo's uber pwn invention is you lying your ass off hard core and you know it so stop the bull**** troll."
"this"
"not supported. there are plenty of ways to metagame effectively without this additional crutch."
"i've tried to stick with eve but ccp has ruined it too much for me to continue. i hope you all join me in this act of protest."
"due to the alarming rise of super capital blobbing and i win soloing around without a proper support fleet. the following changes should take place to bring them into balance.- titans can only lock onto other capital ships.- super carriers can only lock onto battleships and capitals.this will make titan roaming bring proper support fleet and make non-capitals stand a chance instead of being insta-popped on site. supper carriers will now not be the solo i win button that they are now and will not be able to just drop in and just **** the hics and dictors and be immune to all else."
"yay, supper! \o/anyway, please stop posting"
"waaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhthat is what i took from itnot supported"
"he really fails at thinking doesn't he?"
"i think he also fails at failing."
"you already had a thread about supercap rebalancing, and this one will be shot down just as it was before.stop poasting!"
"but but... it's not fair... i lubed my freighter...it's just not fair!! *sniffles* -imitation of crono"
"you... you lubed it? i mean, it's big so i could see why you would need lube, but.. where's it going to fit?"
"proposing removal of parts of the gameplay that you personally don't like is selfish."
"the suggestion is not to make a change in the process of how development life cycle is handled, nor who does the actual work.with any business there is someone who makes the decisions on what work is considered important. having the focus of each release shift from area to area allows the company to focus in on different aspects without neglecting one or always throwing it under the rug. generally the front line grunt developers don't have large say on how the work is prioritized. usually the business back-grounded leadership is and won't put much emphasizes on fixing bugs and issue unless it effects the roi.the major point of the proposal was to have three releases each, with a different focus. having focus for a release doesn't mean you neglected everything else and are so tunnel visioned you can't see the car going to hit you from the left. each release should have a general focus of what the majority of the development organization should be working on. as with sustaining any production system you have keep up on in each of the 4 areas i mentioned in the other forum post.in a release you would pick 1-3 major statement of work items that are in-line with the focus and then pick items from the other groups. day to day production operations have to be done to keep a system going.let me explain the three groups in more detail....revenue generators - these are things that bring in more money into the company. a prime example of this in ccp is dust. this is a new branch of the company's product line and brings in more revenue[note this would not be considered a release its just an example of a revenue generator]. incarna is another example. it has new features and functionality added to the game to expand the product in hopes of bringing in more users. more user mean = more subscriptions, which means more money. hence the release generates new revenue more so that sustaining what already exists.user release - these are release where ccp works on items that directly and indirectly relate to the comments/request of individuals that use their products. this does not mean ccp will meet every request or implement it the way every user wants it done.technical release - hardware, software, performance tuning release. this focuses on giving the developers time to fix bugs. time to reorganize processes, to remove manually labor intensive efforts. a breather to upgrade servers change out network hardware. it can take a lot of time and coordination to complete these efforts. forcing this to always be done in the background or while managing other release is not always possible.change doesn't happen immediately, and the large the company is the longer it usually takes."
"i don't think you are in position to ask for this. you are not major ccp shareholder to decide how expansions are going to be developed/distributed.play the game or leave.... simple."
"sound idea."
"fu eve hater !!!"
"just about the most lucrative thing you can do in eve is to be trusted to run a large corp then steal everything. kartoon got away with an estimated 1.8 trillion isk in assets and cash.adding real world value and, presumably, real world litigation to eve would dramatically change the game. i doubt anyone really wants class actions and lawyers to dominate gameplay.if you don't agree i'll sue you for mental cruelty and aggravated damages."
"argh!!!!!my eyes're bleeding after reading your post !!!!"
"get a job."
"i propose some improvment to help hauler, and by the way democratize this good tool to move objects without taking risks and time :1. option to search for contract with no low or 0.0 sec2. option to search for contract with a limitation for collateral3. option to search for contract with a limitation for rewardthis way contract mission could be a real way to move your assets, and some players could be proffessional haulers."
"1.0"
"great idea. create an \"is a prerequisite for\" tab on the showinfo of skillbooks. at least list the skills, i can imagine that the list of all items might get lenghty.also, similarly, add an \"affecting skills\" tab for items (like in eft) to see what else can i train to increase the efficiency of module xyz."
"i like that +1"
"hi there,as ive seen on your agenda you have this topic on the wishlist for quite a while, and it might actuany be a tacttical suggestion to use this option to get fleet battles to jump to a reinforced node.the suggestion i have is pritty simple. one already can dock ships in capital hanger array`s, so that does not need to change. but what one can not do, is jump along with the capital as a pod pilot to go there where the fun is happening. yet this can change, if you give pods, and yes, only pods the option to link to a capital when they are within 2.5 km range (just like you do with a titan) to jump along the same way as a carrier, or mothership (sorry dont like the new name) to the destination system. doing this also creates a more pointed option to where fleet battles will take place, you even have the option to stall the capital warpin, move it to a reinforced node when you catch to many ships move onto one system this way. the cyno`s and ships will be in one, 2 or 3 fleets, and if you give fc`s the option to connect their fleets in a way to show you they work on the same battlefielf, you can kinda predict what is happening before your node goes down under.the rest i leave up to you."
"i was thinking about settings different \"keep at range\" and \"orbit\" distance and execute them with a shortcut. even if there is already a menu that propose different ranges, i never find my optimal through it...i also noticed than orbit trajectory is quite random, and i was thinkg about the possibility to define them... it would be just after clicking of the orbit button, you'll see a curve to direct or something like this. i think it could add a kind of gameplay while in several target engagements."
"... and there was much rejoicing!"
"that's not what being a sandbox means. it's not about \"catering to all play styles\", where did you get that idea? its about giving players the tools to freely interact with one another and to shape the game world they play in. as opposed to be guided down a pre-determined path and essentially be taken on a ride, like in a theme-park."
"so why people should be guided down the pat you like?at the end it is the same thing. you want the toll used to follow others path to be nerfed and your kind of tools boosted."
"fyp"
"update: raw log of meeting herecsm5 meeting 007 will take place sunday 5 september 2010 at 17:00 eve time. this meeting was postponed from 29 august 2010 due to not having a quorum present at that time. all csm5 delegates and alternates are invited to attend.deadline for delegates to declare issues for the agenda is 4 september 2010 at 18:00. to get an issue added to the agenda, csm delegates must post in this thread linking the issue name to its csm wiki page. a maximum of 9 issues will be considered in the meeting. delegates are encouraged to post multiple issues; issues will be addressed in rotating order, 1 per delegate, until the max is reached.note to community: csm working meetings will normally rotate between 2nd saturday/4th sunday dates until further notice.=============================agendaa. introduction-- roll call-- remindersb. issues-- (trebor) report on csm filtering on user interface - big wins, fan favorites and low hanging fruit wiki-- (mazz) give unallocated skillpoints for all players on sisi every mirror wiki-- (mazz) show current number of jobs in science and industry pages right next to the max number of possible jobs wiki-- (dierdra vaal) revamp magnetometric sites wikic. other business-- status update: ccp deliverables from june summit-- csm blogs progress-- (trebor) discussion and vote on immediate release of the csm report on the results of the august planning meetings.-- korvin's balance issues--status, next steps"
"i currently believe that learning skills are almost a waste of time. while they do make it much better to learn, i do not like having to spend time learning skills so that i can learn faster. then there is the issue of the tier 2 learning skills. these are not worth it to train unless you have a more than 1 year skill plan. my idea, we get rid of skill points, and just give everyone +10 to all stats. then turn around and give people back the skill points they spent on their learning skills. for most people this will be about 2 million skill points in which they can reallocate into whatever they want. for those who took the time to get all to level 5, this will be 6 million skill points to reallocate. for those with the skills already trained, this will not be a game breaking change that will suddenly make bad people good. unless, of course, you have an 8 mil sp character with 6 mil in skill points. it also will improve the playerbase as a whole. for newer players, this will allow people to allocate their 100% bonus better, and will allow them to get into ships faster increasing player retention. thoughts?"
"the csm has addressed this issue, see this wiki article for the details."
"i read through the prioritization list that was linked in the recent dev blog.the improving warfare links was not on the final list. last i had saw (a long time ago) ccp said they would look at warfare links but are concerned about making them too powerful. just wondering why that one didn't make the final list...they need some love..."
"the process we used was to take the player prioritization, split it up into small, medium and large issues, and then filter those sublists; in order to make the final list, at least one csm of those present at the meeting had to give it a thumbs-up, and items that got multiple thumbs-up floated up a bit.that particular proposal did not get any thumbs-ups. you should not infer from this that csm thinks it is a bad idea; we did some serious pruning.we specifically published all the intermediate results so that ccp could see what the raw player sentiment was. also, we are working hard to make it very clear to everyone in ccp that if they are thinking of doing something, they should check the csm backlog to see if there is anything related to it and drop us a line if that is the case."
"/signed"
"/signedthey cant even get such a simple patch right. so many people including me cant even connect to the dahm server anymore"
"is the least we can expect"
"plants need regular watering and sunlight, ccp. it's not enough to just toss a bit more dirt into the flowerpot every once in a while."
"i highly support this proposol. especially the suggestion of adding an m3 counter when setting up courier contracts prior to the near-finalization stage of the contract itself.lux"
"eve addict and otaku; must support by law."
"who can say no to multi-use strippers?"
"perhaps one the dumbest things i have ever seen on the forums. not supported."
"i am cross training to energy turret now"
"agree with moar t1 hulls. and why not have t3 go to dessies next?"
"i have been managing only 2 planets for less than a week and was going to start a topic suggesting this.i don't think it would stop macros, only make it easier to write the program."
"+1i cant stand the click fest. i too was thinking about proposing this idea, but the op actually was able to put it into words, thank you op. you are awesome."
"supported!!"
"supported.i remember in one of ccp's vids, a dev said they were designing pi to be a feature for a \"thinking man's game\". when 90% of your interaction with the feature is repetitive clicking... enough said."
"<insert approving comment here>edit: keep forgeting to hit support button"
"i have started to cross train lasers"
"me to f1x hy8r1ds n04w!!!!!1!!!1!"
"helloi am not sure if this is been proposed to the csm yet, but it would not be unlikely. is well known for the most of you that the system used for mining in eve is one of the easiest things to do in the game (also boring, but profitable), you just need to use a ship with the proper fit, jump to a belt of asteroids or ice, turn your lasers on and wait for it to fill your cargo then carry to the station or transfer to a can or to another ship with more capacity.although there are several ways to do this, depending on the ships and methods, the mechanism remains very similar, is so easy that there are programs created specifically to mine just by turn on the computer, which violates the eula as far as i remember.much has been spoken about the problem of \"macrominers\" and \"macroratting\" but there has been no effective action against this matter, and i'm not to discuss who is to blame in this respect, my interest is directed towards a possible solution.my proposal is based on:1-the change of name of the asteroid belts and ice \"belts\" to \"fields\", as the \"belts\" are not circling anything (at least in the strict sense of the word).2- the change of name is consistent with the way that would have the new \"fields\" (not in a linear fashion, if not in a spherical form), it makes the miners have to move between the asteroids or do more bookmarks in order to mine them, what would make the profession of mining more active with the environment rather than just jump to a single bookmark.3- move all the \"belts\" of ore and ice in highsec, lowsec and 0.0 to locations reachable only via exploration system (probes), which i think would make impossible for a macro to reach these locations. this forces the miners and rat killers to be present in the mining and ratting process.should not take more than lv4 on the skills of exploration to find an \"asteroid field\".4- that asteroids do not lower their respawn a few days, to always keep the same base respawn after dt.5- a warning system to indicate the low amount of mineral in an asteroid that is mined(less than 1000 units)pros:- the profession is a bit more attractive, less boring (but just as profitable).- to be less boring perhaps more people want to mine without using macros.- move asteroids to sites of exploration, will remove the macros (miners / ratting) two for the price of one!-we have really a real market for minerals, which would lead to a real economy.cons:-exploration skills add to the list of the mining profession (although it would not be much).-many macros owners really angry.this is nothing new, this is already done in w-space (wormholes), the mechanics just need to be moved to the rest of eve. (do not know if it would be difficult or easy).in my opinion is a good option to convert mining in something more attractive and less boring, besides solving a problem that takes a long time without solution.i'm not a programmer and not know if the macros can be adapted to this change, but i don`t think is possible, or macros in wormholes would exist right?sorry if i made any grammar mistake, english is not my native language."
"i like the idea to basically move all static belts to grav sites (scanning, like you said). maybe leave a few static belts with only veld or something for the newbs.#5 though i don't agree with. you can already do this if you have a survey scanner. if you want to maximize your yield by not mining a rock with only 1 piece of ore left on a 3 minute cycle, check the survey scanner.in the end though, the only way to stop bots would be to add a captcha when mining..."
"i like the idea, i'm a miner with little experience but the changes look good to methumb up!"
"i think ccp announced planetary ring mining and other exciting stuff in some video i certainly won't find now, but thats at least 17 months away so .."
"yea they were talking about actual belts around planets, 100s of kms long. a few years ago."
"hello tiran,i had this idea when i was in the csm, and developed it a bit too. in order to make this feasible, barges and exhumers would need to be able to scan these 'fields' down using the on-board scanner so as to prevent using one of their already limited high-slots.this otherwise seems like a good idea, but the ice mining aspect could be enhanced further. the idea i developed is visible under my overhaul of poses, but could easily be implemented separate from that to enhance the concept of ice mining as it is.if you're interested in reading about my concept, feel free to click the link above. however, i do support this idea."
"yes, please. ccp will do this!.........in 18 months edit, support"
"while i support the suggestion in my ideal world permission should be configurable on a person by person and module by module basis. having access to a lab shouldn't grant access to all labs. same for sma and corp hangars."
"there needs to be a new upgrade for sovernty to fully disallow any cyno of any kind. currently even with a cyno jammer, covert cynos still can be opened up in the system. what is the point of a cyno jammer if people can still open a cyno?the idea of a cyno jammer is to add protection from invaders and yet they still can easily bypass this. with an all cyno jammer or covert cyno jammer module there would be a counter to this cowardly so called pvp. it is just people who fail at normal pvp who are looking for easy ganks."
"that's the whole point you bloody noob for an idiot.there is no other way to break a cyno jammer blockade other than a covert cyno.usually people who can afford to install a cyno jammer better have a damn good defense fleet.sounds like in your case... you epically fail at that... considering you love to lose freighters and mining equipment to stupid situations.... not surprised.please... for the love of all things good... stfu."
"6/10, decent parody of afk cloak whiners"
"stop posting"
"currently players can board ships in space and benefit from the fit rigs if they don't have the skill for it. i propose that be changed. if you don't have the skill for it then the rig should not work."
"working as intended as according to ccp. anyway, it's a non-issue, as the skills take a day anyway.once again you're a ******, stop poasting!"
"ccp has never said that. you are a terrible liar. also it takes more than just one day to train for the t2 rigs. again, lying your ass off."
"ccp has said it, i just can't be bothered to find the quote. also, to train skills from being able to fit tech 1 ccc's to tech 2 ccc's (which is what i was basing my statement on) is just jury rigging 4. ok, i lied, a day and a half for me. 2 days, max. tech 2 purgers need shield rigging 4, which is 2 or 3 days. anyway, it's inconsequential."
"how convenient for you..."
"why wouldn't you want it to always take effect? i type like this cause it makes me not look cool"
"how in the blithering hell is this so damn bad that it requires your epic failness to ***** about?"
"i see i struck a nerve there. yes people like you that abuse exploits like that will be upset. you will simple have to adapt."
"it seems that you haven't got a clue what you are talking about, you have always been able to fly ships fitted with rigs without the skills but training the skills reduces the penalties that come with each rig.so learn to read the penalties accrued with each rig type, that is why you train the skill."
"the op is right! we are sploiters of a mechanic that while it seems balanced because you get more penalties if you dont have the skill trained- but its not balanced at all, no, no it is not, for shame, for shame, we shall overcome! we will simple must have adapt!also- bold is the new cruise control for cool amirite!"
"answer the question... what makes it so bad that you feel its an exploit?cleared out trolling remarks. - adida"
"he wont, because he cant.also hes a drooling idiot who vomits way too much trolling crap on this forum."
"isnt it about time that there was certain sectors of eve space that has special spacial features a bit like the 3rd part of the recon mission with the green gasseous space that damages ships.what i would like to see is special spacial areas for miners and industrialists to be able to enter with purpose built shield modules, that allows them to survive in specific areas and to make it interesting only allow the miners and industrialists to fit the special shield modules, that stop damage from the spacial anomolies.just to keep the pvpers happy this doesnt mean they cant go into the area just means they take constant damage when they do."
"sounds like a nerf to pvp with no actual reason or benefit?"
"i dont see it as a nerf to pvp at all as i pvp in warships too i see it as a way of giving miners and industrialists a chance in pvp, by making it slightly more dangerous for the warships and indeed miners and industrialists who dont mount the proper module for the area of space they are in.right now in pvp in normal space miners and industrialists have practically no chance of surviving an encounter, which makes miners and industrialists less likely to want to come out and play due to that fact."
"i would like to point out also pvp vs a miner and a industrialist ship isnt actually pvp as 99.99% of the time they cant shoot back and dont really have proper effective tanks that last any length of time.so to me killing something that cant kill back isnt pvp its piracy."
"this calls for the battlebadger"
"actually, such locations exist. i've mined places like this in w-space.though having them around outside of w-space would be nice too."
"i want more dangerous situations in space like areas where your scanner won't work, targeting is delayed due to 'natural phenomena', targeting range is adversely effected due to the same, em/thermal damage from magnetic 'clouds' or the like, kinetic damage from actual asteroid fields (some day in the future), explosive damage from volatile gas pockets when weapons fire happens in them."
"i'd love to see the w space system anomolies come out to k space. seems odd that no pulsars, red giants, black holes etc. exist in the main eve cluster."
"i wouldn't mind taking a break from the grind, already trained for hulk so got no 2 month skills sadly i'm a ceo if a good corp and can't take long breaks."
"can i haz ur stuffz?"
"i will join with you in biomassing your character."
"bye! have a nice...oh who am i kidding...."
"i would but the ccp trap has me (spent too much time skilling up and too much money invested in my char)"
"titans should explode instantly if they lock anything at all, and motherships should get turned into floating raw minerals if anything locks them."
"musical fist, is that you?"
"cromo, here is a few tips:1) stop trolling2) stop talking in bold3) make your characters face less ugly (he looks like he's choking on sour balls)4) delete all your troll post (eveything you have ever posted)5) gb2wow6) learn that someone that spends 60 (or 20) billion isk on something should get something awesome7) stop sounding like a 5 year old whining about not getting candy8) see 5o and btwban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"the smartbombing on low sec.gates is getting way out of hand. smartbombing within 10km of gates.should not be allowed. supporting."
"also i propose that anyone that isnt a pvper is immune to all guns and damage of any type at all times. guns are overpowered and should be nerfed. also pvp should be banned. it may be necessary to also remove weapon systems from npc rats as people may otherwise lose ships while pveing and to be frank that just isnt fair."
"as with any proposal in the forum it is just a suggestion. ccp can decide what user proposals they implement or pass by.you won't get anywhere if you don't ask."
"great idea, more small gang pvp will occur and the amount of forum tears on afk cloakers will reach new heights."
"the last thing this game needs is another nerf to mining in 0.0. not supported."
"tbh i quite like the csm a lot less when they start prefering business hats to purist hats on.yes, the learning skills are a pain to train, so is gallente battleship lvl 5. no, you don't need to train them the first 2 months of your eve career. i honestly don't understand why anyone would do such a thing. that being said: i wouldn't mind if they were removed if it does not slow down my training speeds and i can reinvest the skill points i have in them instantly, in whatever i like for an indefinate ammount of time, like the free points we got recently due to the long down time."
"i personally think that learning skills are one of the biggest turn offs for new players (and, indeed, those of us who indulge in training an alt). you could argue that ccp have made the game too noob friendly with accelerated learning and two free remaps right off the bat (back in my day you started with 40k sp and had to wt15 through 5 feet of snow etc etc). if learning skills were removed and the sp added to a pool to redistribute then everyone wins.older players who have trained learning skills get a pool to spend on what they like and they have benefited over the years from the increased training times compared to some of their peers.those who haven't trained learning skills to a reasonable level are now on a par with vets but with nothing to show for it otherwise.new players aren't put off by the tedium of training learning skills for several weeks in total in order to get ahead.yes, this is a harsh universe where your choices may or may not have an otherwise unforseen knock on effect further down the line (as a hardcore caldari mission runner i knew found to his dismay when he made his way into gallente space) and not everyone is cut out for this game. but through the sp reimbursement system ccp have an opportunity to get rid of perhaps the biggest bone of contention amongst new and old players alike."
"it's not the same thing, and you saying it is makes me inclined to believe you still don't understand what makes a sandbox mmorpgs different from a themepark mmorpgs.when i see players asking for missions or mining to be completely free from any possible negative impact from other players, i interpret that as them asking for themepark type game play.... pvp free, instanced, completely controllable, predictable outcomes that are almost always positive. this isn't a legitimate play style to be supported in a mmorpg that claims to be both sandbox and pvp orientated. worse yet, the gains made by players doing this aren't themselves instanced, the isk, minerals, mods and other gains made have an impact on the game world as a whole.so, in the simplest form what you want is to have your cake and eat it too. you want to make gains that impact the the whole game world /other players, but object to the whole game world /other players being able to impact the means of these gains.as long as this sort of game play exists, low sec can never truly be fixed, it's a serious imbalance in the game's dynamics. which is why in my original suggestion i said all but newbie combat missions, exploration, and serious mining all need to be moved out of high sec."
"my peace was said in this thread.i feel that my vote was wasted!"
"xorv, your distinction between sand-box and theme-park mmos is well taken, and i don't doubt there are some pilots looking for a theme-park. yet as i read the conversation between you and venkul, i don't interpret him as advocating a theme-park. like you, he too is discussing a sandbox. but he is challenging your presupposition that pvp should be the dominant playstyle in the eve sandbox. as venkul points out, that is not everyone's preferred cup of tea, and some compelling justification must be offered for saying that it should be. this reminds me of the debate over pvp fundamentalism. i don't know if you are an acolyte of that or not, and it would be interesting to hear your thoughts on the matter. or perhaps a different clarification is in order. i too would like to see a low sec buff. as a matter of policy, however, it should not be at the expense of others who don't want to play there. rather we need to find creative ways to draw (not force) more non-pirate folks into low sec, while encouraging small fleet and small holder interactions. delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"the only ones that could reply would be a ccp manager who has input into development and that wouldn't be smart of them.if they say they listen, that's not good enough for those that post here. if they list priority changes and that list isn't complete, they'll catch flack for it. if they put a full list out -- great, they just bypassed the csm's who've been asking after such a list for how long? -- which demonstrates just how little the csm are worth. etcetera.in other words, nothing a csm says here will suffice and if ccp posts -- they're in a pretty close to no-win situation. it'll either be \"not good enough\", denied as lies or ignoring/bypassing the csm's.if you want a 'real' initiative -- post in the suggestions forum requesting a list of csm changes to be collected and published by ccp -- \"we provide you with feedback, now tell us how much value we've added to the process\". get it on the books as an \"official\" players request vs csm postscript comment attached to meeting notes. fulfillment of such a request would take absolutely no development effort to accomplish so \"timely\" delivery would show ccp's involvement and interest in the csm program. lack of delivery or a long delay would have its own meaning.the meeting notes from review of that request -- and delivery/lack of delivery of the list by ccp -- would say a hell of a lot more than anything else about the value of the csm program."
"item: report (by me) of results of csm filtering on user interface - big wins, fan favorites and low hanging fruit followed by final discussions and vote."
"this gets my support"
"definately needs to be done, but not sure on prioritisation..."
"i like the small ship maintenance array ideaboost blops"
"supported"
"i approve this message. ccp listen up."
"yes"
"supported"
"you have my support."
"bring back the terrifying tunnel effect, it was epic when a huge cap fleet jumped in. or you could make something like it but better!"
"1.0"
"longer and better proposal than my post.i support entirely this proposal."
"agree."
"/john han****ed"
"sounds like reasonable stuff.i would regard sorting possibilities when looking through courier contracts as particularly important. that interface is so intimidating.would also be really nice to be able to pass courier contracts between players, would enable more division of labor type cooperation, but i guess that would be harder to implement."
"i must say that this never crossed my mind, but i doo feel that eve online is the single game in the universe where this kind of things should be shown. this is eve, not hello kitty online, we want the realism. i want to be the guy saying \"it's a tarp\" and paste admiral ackbars to my fellow pilots while station spinning, when i'm in a frog station. so i fully support this, and urge ccp to respect eve, do not stain her."
"bump"
"hey, then -insert east orient country here- farmers will be able to feed their families without invoking the wrath of rmt.support this idea, end world hunger."
"needs the feature to save pizza fittings and share them with friends."
"c"
"i'm sick of hisec mag sites. they need to be worth visiting so that people will visit them so they will despawn.an average of one armor plate or alloyed tritanium bar is all that's required to make them \"worth visiting\". doesn't have to be an isk printing machine, just worth the time of probing down and warping to it, then spending a couple of dozen seconds cracking the can open.at present i make more isk probing down abandoned drones, a \"profession\" which requires the most basic of astrometrics skills and no special modules!"
"/takes a bow=)"
"so any news from the csm? i know, i know, i'm way too optimistic."
"since all his threads are either utterly idiotic with no idea how they would affect game balance or clear trolls with no purpose other than to allow him to post in caps and insult people who point out how dumb he is.discuss."
"i second this. his bold typing is downright annoying"
"definitely supported."
"have to support this"
"his trolling is terrible."
"just reported your thread. enjoy your ban."
"supported, andop you forgot to support your won suggestion thread, you fail"
"yes please"
"just reported you for abusing the reporting feature.oh, and for being annoying as sh!t."
"supported 100%."
"i'd go further and ban him outright. but, just this forum would do."
"i support this.. but on the condition that when the banhammer falls, it doesn't just ban him, it smashes his skull too."
"i read a couple of his threads. i need brain bleach.supporting this..."
"1.0"
"meh, nothing is perfect"
"it would be nice to have generic \"access control lists\" that work like group permissions on unix.in your sma you have the options to \"view\", \"put\", \"take\". each of these options can be associated with two groups of \"tags\". each \"tag\" is a group of people or a corporation, or the alliance. one group of tags is the \"allow\" list, the other is the \"deny\" list.you could, for example, put \"my <U+FFFD>ber alliance\" into the \"view\" and \"put\" groups (so for a jump bridge your alliance pilots can all check how much fuel is in there, and put fuel in if it's needed). the three corporations dedicated to defending this particular system could have \"take\" access, but then those two players who keep \"losing\" ships but never posting killmails? they go on the \"deny\" list for view, put, take.each tag is thus a representation of a group of people, and multiple tags can go into each type of access control list slot.server side each character node would keep track of the tags that a character belongs to, and the character node would interrogate the acl of whatever container is being accessed. the most specific allow/deny would have precedence - thus if i'm in a list of 10 people who have \"take\" access, but i'm also in a list of 3 people who are denied \"take\" access, i am denied take access."
"totally supported !!"
"100% supported"
"either option from the op's suggestion that is workable would be greatly appreciated by all wh dwellers i'm sure.100% supported here."
"bunyip, since your time in csm we've had the orca introduced and exploration has been massively overhauled.there is nothing stopping a miner spending a few days training astrometrics, buying a t1 astrometrics frigate, probing down an asteroid pocket, getting the orca pilot to warp to the field, then switching to the hulk (storing the frigate in the ship maintenance bay). the orca pilot could even be doing the exploration while the hulk pilots are mining.@requin: this will not prevent macros. the macro-user would just set their mining bookmark to the appropriate location, start the macro and walk away.what would work against macros is to limit the volume of ore in any pocket. a pocket limited to about an hour's effort for two hulks + orca fleet should reduce the value of a mining macro.to make this work, i would keep a certain number of pockets in a system, respawning at a random location after some delay. in higher sec systems, the pockets would contain less ore, there would be fewer of them, and they would take longer to respawn after being depleted (and have a higher variance in respawn time). thus the folks who can log in immediately after downtime aren't getting an unfair advantage in the mining game, and the need for reseeding during downtime is removed.as an example, someone wanders into a 0.7 system and probes down eight pockets. each pocket in this system is picked from the \"set\" of twenty available for that security label system. these 0.7 pockets are on a respawn timer of 120 min <U+FFFD>30 min.these timers and pocket sizes could be adjusted to provide the same maximum volume of ore per day for any given system. so rather than have a belt respawning at dt with 500k units of veldspar, that system could have one pocket with 100k units of veldspar, with a 4h 45m <U+FFFD>30m respawn delay (a maximum of five respawns per 23h day, assuming 30m to clear out 100k units).the variance in the respawn time would work to prevent people setting up schedules for returning to a particular pocket, and thus allow opportunistic mining.these asteroid pockets would be specific to that system, as opposed to other exploration sites which migrate around a constellation/region. there could be similar pockets that migrate to other systems of the same security type.one security type could cover 0.7 systems with a higher proportion of scordite than plagioclase, another security type could cover 0.7 systems with a higher proportion of kernite than scordite. thus heavy mining of scordite in emolgranlan could lead to higher volumes of scordite spawning in atgur. both emolgranlan would have their normal system asteroid pockets, but the region-wide security-class pockets would always spawn elsewhere.leaving the actual mechanic of mining as it is but adding the need for exploration and surveying, should be enough to spice up the profession a little while simultaneously making life a little more difficult for macroers (and opportunistic gankers)."
"tbh if you want to make it harder for macros to mine (and somewhat more interesting to do) give the player a little minigame (read: game, not inane click sink) or whatnot so it's not just hit f1, wait for cargohold to fill. i think making every site a scan-down site is a little extreme, and doesn't really solve the \"mining is boring as ****\" problem.there's so much dead time in this game, mining and ratting should not simply be \"activate lasers/weapons, wait for roids/rats to die\". why aren't we using the sleeper ai for all npc rats again?"
"thank you all for the contributions to the forum, this is not a new idea and may have been discussed before but has not yet been implemented so that it remains valid.bunyip i `m interested in reading your consept, and i wait for it when you can post it.on the contribution of mara, thanks very enlightening if somewhat complex, but well this is eve!, in my opinion base the amount of mineral in small amounts can help, but do not know if this may discourage the mining, and this would involve major changes. my proposal goes on the side of the mechanism used in the wormholes and that is already implemented and would only have to be exported to \"new eden\".and do not think macros are dedicated to exploring, do a bookmark (in the new fields would require more than one) and then activate it, at least i do not think that most would do.they do it (macro) because it's easy, is automatic and is afk, and the fact that every day of every week of every month will be mandatory search fields with probes not going to like much.i might be wrong but i think they are lazy and not going to do it.please check the box if you want to give me your support when you do the post, the more people do this, more attention to this matter to be discussed in the csm and ccp.thx again"
"this. on board scanner or add a special, dedicate, high slot for a probe launcher similar to the one on the zephyr.the training time is reasonably small, but the second part of your comment show that you think in terms of alts and not players. try that with a new player. no orca, no skill to pilot even an exumer, no isk to buy one or the other. balancing the game around old players and their alts is really a horrible way to go. /support to the general idea."
"venkul you are right in part, but in the early days you are not mining too much, perhaps some fields can be located in some areas for rookies, but to prevent the macros (mostly) an agent in this system could give a bookmark to go there and you can only access these agents if you finish the industry tutorial, this give you time to train the proper skills for exploration, training this skills and be able to do it well for a rookie don`t take more than a week, two if it takes all the skills to lv4 (with appropriate learning skills), and think they are avaliable in a tutorial (i`m not sure) so no investment.the mining agent mechanics (that wich give you the bm) can be a nice tool too."
"^^this."
"supported"
"hi,i am really disappointed with the current state of (what i like to refer to as) \"real\" exploration, where you explore different systems looking for signatures. i see that ccp has tried to encourage this with exploration tutorials, improved scanning system and w-space ofcourse but i feel k-space exploration sites are really lacking. but the low isk/hr of the profession really hurts it compared to the vastly superior anomaly or mission running in high sec and upgraded systems. problem 1:ded complexes are just so weak now, they used to give many more opes and are not worth the effort required usually. they have a chance for a really good complex item if ofcourse they are of a particular faction. if they wanted to curb the isk gain from infrastructure spwaned deds, why not just create seperate instances of those complexes - instead, they got lazy and nerfed all ded complexes even those rare few you find through normal exploration. suggested solution 1:increase the rate of opes to what it was before, the rate of opes is so low now, when before you could get an ope in every room and now you only guaranteed one in the last room. and if possible, create seperate complex instances for the ones spawned from infrastructure upgrades. problem 2:the loot from radars and mags (for some factions) is far too inconsistent and for most factions, really needs to be looked at. suggested solution 2:personally, even just removing the dreaded \"empty cans\" and guaranteeing all cans yield something will go a long way. but i'd like to see much more consistent rate of t2 salvage. and much more consistent rate of decryptors from radars.problem 3: low spawn rate of \"unrated\" complexes, they can be as rare as deds sometimes and only have a chance for faction spawn and escalation. these are really the gem of \"real\" exploration and should be the main reason to do it. i do believe they are the main reason in high sec, because a good escalation can be very profitable (once again if for the right faction). suggested solution 3:increase the rate at which unrated complexes spawn, so that real exploring actually has a good chance at faction spawns and escalations more regularly. if you could find twice as many unrated complexes as there is now, it would actually be worth it to explore as opposed to the other far more profitable isk/hr professions. the way it stands, exploration is a very low isk/hr profession surpassed by almost everything else. i don't want it to be the best but atleast lets make 0.0 and low sec exploration comparable to other professions that have much less risk! come on ccp, exploration is a great feature of eve, it's the only interesting form of pve where you can actually feel like your in a living universe.thanks."
"well to start:exploration has its bugs yes.it is also all chance basedi run on average of 3-10 sites a day (all sig types)for 10min work in a hs radar site i can make a least 10millfor 30min work in a serp 3/10 i can make 500mill (if im really lucky)for 30min in a serp 4/10 again upwards of 500mill in drops (again if really lucky)30 min in 1 lowsec radar site netted me 300mill in decriptors components and bpcsthe issue u are experiencing is that ur scanning and finding the **** others dont want to run. (thats not to say its not good)i had a period of time where every un-rated site i ran would escalate, in the end i came away with 5 vig bpcs2 daredevil bpcsover 30 shadow mods 22 c-type med reps5 c-type eanms2 a-type eanms2 full sets snakes (only 1 omega though <U+F04C> )various drone components t2 salvage out the rectanus !!i do agree that mag sites are below average in all regionsif ur not getting the hits u want then move ur scanning raught"
"i've had results like yours elenor, i've been exploring in all regions of space for a long time now. the problem is your not accounting for the time it takes to find sites and not just do them. i can name my great days when i make 500mil or 1bil, but i can also remember many many days where i would waste a lot of time scanning. ultimately, you have to start timing your isk from the moment you undock and start scanning, to be able to compare it fairly. you'll find even on good days, it's still well below other professions. especially if you add that up over a month, how many good days and bad days have you had? take the the isk/hr of each day and average it out over a months worth of exploration.my exploration char flys a tengu with perfect scanning skills, every single of my other profession chars can average a higher isk/hr."
"explore in groups with your corporation.a team of 5 explorers and 10/15 fighters can make a lot of money and with 5 explorer you find very often interesting sites...exploration, like all proffessions is not for alone players...if you're missioning solo, or mining solo... you dont get much benefit than exploring in solo...so just find corpmates to make this proffession and you'll get a lot of isk and fun :)"
"to quote ccp: \"well, really, we don't like items having \"special status\" in the game\"reference:"
"only if all the empires get to claim sov and stick cyno jammers in every system :)"
"this is interesting. supported."
"they see me trollin', they hatin'...those items are restricted for gameplay reasons, plex were not."
"step 1: item restrictions lifted.step 2: some @$$hole decides to doomsday jita... much chaos ensues.step 3: total and complete market crash due to increasingly violent attacks. prices go through the roof and no one can get anything for decent money.step 4: ???step 5: will it sure as hell ain't a profit.use your heads people.... stop being so damned dense for once."
"only if security hits are non recoverable, accrue on all the characters on your account if one character get a standing it and to all the characters that do direct trade or or set persona contracts for characters with negative standing and characters with negative standing can't be biomassed or sold. that way firing a bomb at the docking point of jita 4-4 has real consequences. with the current mechanics it is too easy to recover negative standing and it has very few consequences."
"@mara rinn: cyno jammers in every system. sure - why not? let faction war corps anchor cyno jammers (and other pos structures) on behalf of the faction. let faction war actually be... uh. war. in stead of some cripple fight in low-sec.@stick cult: this is"
"uh... dds are single-target these days.not that i like the idea, or anything. just sayin'."
"i think there is an option :let ally the opportunity to declare war on empires.this way, the members in war with an empire could use cyno and all stuff in this empire without restriction, but the entire empire will be at war with them..you want challenge... you get it ^^"
"i agree with these assessments actually.- either have actual cyno jammers in place, which could be destroyed like any other. or specifically, let the fw folks deploy and maintain them.- concord presence is the only difference between system sec. if you want to move a cap into jita, go ahead. so long as it doesn't break any laws while there.- i'd love to see a titan \"accidentally\" dd the wrong ship, and watch as a fleet of concord caps spawn to take it down.- sec status? how about just a flag on negative toons for \"can not be biomassed\". then people can't cause havoc and trash the toon afterwards. ccp already delights in players having tons of accounts, so here's another motivation to pay extra to keep playing when all your slots are filled with criminals."
"it does break belivability when these things occur.i support the activate any module anywhere you want initiative.its not really belivably that naughty pirates wouldnt find away around the failsafes that stop modules activating in high sec.of course thats not to say that there use should be condoned.dropping a bubble in low sec / high sec should give a sec hit + gcc + concordokken ( high sec ).gate guns should pop bubbles with priority as navigational hazards.but bubbles in lowsec asteroid belts would be effective.cyno's in high sec ok.carriers and dreads in high sec without permission of the faction ( never given ) means flying a carrier/dread again = sec hit / gcc / concordokken.but its still a better solution than the ah you cant use this module here bs."
"this would be epic. if empire and the 0.0 allince went to war the entire game would change. concord wouldbe able to help as much from trying to defend themselves while titans try to invade jita and amarr. it would be epic"
"andare great additions to my proposal, thanks guys."
"*facepalmswhile you're at it, please make a sovereignty (thats how its supposed to be spelled...) module that stops wormholes from spawning into the system, and also a module that turns off stargates as well so that carebears can rat in peace and not have to defend themselves.kthx"
"i, too, support a cyno jammer that fits a covert ops cloak so you can't even find it to incap it. covert cyno jammers for everybody!"
"get out"
"with so many people saying t2 bpo's being left in the game is fine and has no effect on invention then let's bring back the old lottery system. that way current bpo's owners don't have to worry about their isk printing presses being taken away and newer players actually have a chance at the t2 production market."
"you are such a ****ing ******you don't even deserve a proper answer. why don't you troll a different forum section, one that isn't meant to be useful?"
"yeah.... and a damn hypocrite to boot.first he *****es about tech 2 bpo's and now he want's them."
"indecisiveness is bad, mmkay?discuss..."
"get out"
"no one said that, hitup www.dictionary.com, and try looking up the words you don't understand as you re-read the posts in your other post.alternatively if english isn't your first language you might need"
"cromo's crazy rants not withstanding, i do like this idea.eve's player base has grown substantially since release and yet the number of t2 bpos has not. i think it would be interesting to see what would happen if another 5-10 of each bpo was put up for the lottery. i know i would not win because i don't have a research agent, but i would still like to see it happen."
"troll (tr<U+028A>l) vb1. angling a. to draw (a baited line, etc) through the water, often from a boat b. to fish (a stretch of water) by trolling c. to fish (for) by trolling2. to roll or cause to roll3. archaic to sing (a refrain, chorus, etc) or (of a refrain, etc) to be sung in a loud hearty voice4. informal ( brit ) ( intr ) to walk or stroll5. homosexual slang ( intr ) to stroll around looking for sexual partners; cruise6. slang ( intr ) computing to post deliberately inflammatory articles on an internet discussion board n7. the act or an instance of trolling8. angling a bait or lure used in trolling, such as a spinner9. slang computing a person who submits deliberately inflammatory articles to an internet discussion"
"*grabs some popcornplease continue.."
"no no no, post more. as long as you're allowed to spam the forum with grade a tard, i want to get as many laughs as possible. can you do \"cloaks are overpowered!\" next, please?"
"ohh dear god how wrong you are its not even funny anymore1 i dont own any t2 bpos hell i havent even seen one however i do make my money off invention.we control the market not the bpo owners. bpo owner makes 1 <insert module/ship/whatever> and can only ever make 1 at a time (1 bpo =1 run at a time) me i invent a ton of of bpcs and poof i can make 11 in the same time that mr bpo makes 1. i will give you that they have a larget profit margine per unit due to not having to invent but the money trickles in considerably slower than me.my proposal is let em keep there bpos they will eventualy die due to getting exploded in idiotic situations and people just unsubbing with them in there posetion. why should once again people be penolised for playing this game for longer than you."
"old players have enough of an advantage without this unfair mechanic. or, offer procedure to create t2 bpos with unlimited runs to everybody else."
"no, i like my t2 stuffs cheap.i'd support boosting invention to get improved base me/pe though so inventors could effectively compete with bpo holders in stuff like t2 frigatesmaybe do it through decryptor effects, all decryptors should give only positive effects and better bonuses(this is boosting exploration too)"
"invested 0 isk? i must have imagined the billions i spent on my t2 bpos.just leave it already."
"i just reported you for tolling drake. as for the rest of you mother ****ers that think its cool to troll and derail all my threads, i will be reporting you too.try reading the forum rules before opening your mouth next time.now back to the topic...like i said. players should not be allowed to get the benefit of a rig without training for it."
"you get the full penalty of the drawbacks. someone with the appropriate skill trained to 1 gets 10% less penalty.i'm not sure what the complaint actually is. you nerf your ship with the drawback that is usually out of proportion to the benefit gained."
"*sniff sniff*you smell that ccp? its a troll thread!"
"the only troll here is the one who types in bold all the time.looks like that's just you."
"if agree with the op's proposal and support his suggestion that if you board a rigged ship and you don't have the skills to fly it, ccp will come to your home and kill your dog."
"get out"
"this thread makes me laugh."
"lolit's not an exploit it's intended. ccp had the idea that we might manage to make a profession out of rig fitting. didn't really work out but that's no reason to remove it. anyway if you don't have the skills you'll get a larger penalty from the rig, or didn't you read the descriptions properly?"
"great idea"
"supported. more security is always ok. if you want to sell your character 1 week is what you'll be aiming for the auction at the minimum anyway, so... i'm also open to other ideas, but the general intent is good and thus supported."
"hah!i'd love to see someone try to gank a skiff.and the miner says \"could you move a bit closer to that merc rock\".and then it erupts!"
"well, colonized and linked systems are but a small % of the actual solar systems in the eve galaxy. the cluster is actually quite small in diameter.i'd just say that explorers found hazardous and dangerous systems and just said \"scratch that\" and never linked 'em. on the other hand, in w-space you go wherever wormholes go, so dangerous zones are quite common.p.s. for comparison, the milky way (which isn't one of the biggest galaxies) is about 100k light years across and about 1k light years thick. i doubt the eve cluster is even 200 ly across... for what we know we may even be quite close to earth (though unlikely since triangulation on known cepheids would have been made back when the eve wormhole was open)"
"it started out strong - new features are cool, right?but then it fell to pieces when it became obvious that the suggested idea is merely a thin disguise for an entirely different agenda - \"make mining safer!\""
"geeked out a little and checked on dotlan... after a rough visual estimate of the two systems furthest away (since the map is flattened, it's not really that accurate but whatever), i came up with an approximate of 114 ly between cobalt edge and period basis. though this is the travel distance with carrier jumps, actual distance seems to be a little shorter due to the curve of the route (for reference: clicky ). so let's say that the eve cluster is roughly 120 ly across. even smaller than what i said previously.now, back to the topic :pi personally wouldn't mind some more hazardous places around but there must be a reason for them... simply placing dangerous systems around means that people will probably avoid them. otoh, placing valuable resources in them for no apparent reason isn't much better.still supported, varied ambients are cool."
"i propose a new rig for ships who have lot of cargo capacity :cargo organisation : bonus : allow the organisation of cargo at the expense of cargo capacitydrawback : -x% to cargo capacity (ammount as to be defined)the organisation will be like a corporation hangar, faciliting the life of all big haulers.the only \"problem\" is that freighter ships dont have a rig slot...maybe they could have one but only dedicated to astraunotic's rigs ? i dont know, maybe there is another way to do it."
"use containers?also, most provide extra space inside using sci-fi physics."
"i'm thinking of a real simple way to organize cargo. we can imagine a system which can allow every defined space of the cargo haing the totality of the cargo space available.for example, you could have 1 place for ammo, and 1 for modules.when there is cargo space available, you can add ammo/module until the whole space's not empty.imagine moveable wall in the cargo bay, wich can adapt to the goods in the cargo. it could be very usefull for traders or to move assets without having to open 50 boxes when you arrive at destination...."
"or you can use list or detail view mode instead of icon, and click on the \"group\" column. just a thought."
"well... yes...but the other interest of this rig (allright i didnt mentioned it before ^^)is against gank.with a scan cargo, you'll just see the different compartiment names, but not the list of itmes.also it can be used as a moveable corp hangar."
"and now the truth comes out...you want a rig, that turns your private cargo bay into a corp hangar, so the baddies can't see your phat lewtz.when it comes to organization, just use containers. instead of sacrificing cargo space (as your rig drawback), you'll be gaining 5-30% more space.when it comes to avoiding pre-gank scanning, use courier contracts. this will package up whatever you have into a small nondescript box, the contents of which remain unknown until manually opened.of course, when people scan your cargo and see a bunch of courier packages, they may gank you just to see what's in them. kinda like xmas presents!/still not supported"
"correction: only if you contract stuff in containers people cant see the content. plain courier contract wont make it invisible to cargo scanners."
"right click > select all > drag and drop > rinse&repeat."
"yes god damnit yes"
"vaal erit <---trollsupported!!it is frustrating for many that they don't know when ccp will charge their credit card, etc. some like to change payments. i have actually petitioned this from ccp with no response. would like to see csm support."
"the few times i have payed with plex i've never seen it.edit: also, the way i pay with my accounts isn't your problem. i just don't see why its a big issue to make the timer always show, it seems like it would be more work to only make it show sometimes."
"i'm paying with plex and it shows me when i have less than 10 days. hmm... another bug?"
"if you have ever paid with a recurring payment method, you will not be shown the countdown, regardless of what payment method you currently use.so for people like me who have a credit card set up, but prefer to pay by plex where possible, the only current option is to mark the date in the diary. then comes the complexity of 30 day account cycles versus calendars that want to do 28 day cycles or calendar month cycles, but nothing in between.just show the countdown until the next payment of any kind is due, with an option to hide that countdown."
"i'm already on the 2 months break since the rl kicked in. do i count?also, try not to post stuff like this in assemly hall."
"csm,you talk about csm7 but still no news from csm 6 ?my priority interest is :- did you presented the backlog player priority list to ccp ?- do you wait a backlog resolution planning from ccp?- will ccp add developers to solve the backlog ?please, i will be happy with yes/no/don't know answers.there is no answer from your side and ccp just tell us 'looks gives we have a good carbon engine' and we know about lag again...are you all waiting us to get out of the game and let the people that don't see the bug playing ?yeay"
"1) yes (see this wiki article for details)2) we have received some information from ccp, have some clarification requests in, and are preparing a report we hope to issue shortly.3) we don't know."
"trebor daehdoow,thank you.now it's clear that the point is 100% on ccp side.there is a clear post on the point.csm does it's part of the job as player concil.yeay"
"interesting perspective, but consider this. pve isn't everyone's preferred cup of tea either, but for the majority of players that want to pvp in eve, a good deal of pve is a necessity. at least in game's like early uo, shadowbane, and darkfall the pve took place in an entirely open pvp environment making the experiences of both pve and pvp mesh together. in eve this isn't the case for all pve. because the differences in gains between the near free pvp areas and the pvp areas is not that significant, completing pve in the largely pvp free areas is the clear choice for both pve and pvp focused players.so, when you ask me for justification of making pve focused players deal also with pvp, a simple answer would be to tell you because pvp focused players already have to deal with lots of pve.i'm not sure what \"pvp fundamentalism\" is, i did read your post in the link but i'm definitely not reading that whole thread on ankh. i'm going to say i'm probably not a \"pvp fundamentalist\", since i don't think in a strictest sense it's even about pvp vs pve, at least not from my perspective. ideally the lines between pve and pvp should be blurred, as with pcs and npcs. to artificially separate the two is to drive towards theme park type game play. in their ideal form sandbox mmorpgs offer players complete freedom to act out their virtual existence, constrained only by mechanics that are in place to maintain the integrity of the shared fantasy world, or more specifically it's lore (whether that be the worlds laws of physics or it's historical and political framework). so i suppose that makes me something of a simulationist. yet where my thought process comes from on this probably matters little to most, in the end on this particular issue i side with \"pvpers\". it's given, considering eve's historical and political lore is one of conflict, and that things like disallowing pirate players to enter high sec yet npc pirates have thousands of ships there in player missions makes no sense from simulationist perspective.here's my olive branch to the pvp phobic however small and wilted it may be , if most pve combat was moved out of high sec, as well as most of the mining i would happily see high sec made safer, and things like suicide ganking in high sec addressed. but until that time comes i praise suicide gankers, wardecers, ninjas, and can flipers as a true blessing to eve."
"xov is not a pvp fundamentalist for your definition. far from it, from what i gather, he think that only combat pvp is pvp.the problem is that he think he has the right to a special treatment and that the game revolve only around his playstile."
"deliliah doesn't have a definition, she's just trolling pvp'ers by claiming that those people who realize that eve is a pvp game, and that ccp deliberately designed it that way and explicitly said so clearing up her trolling-faux-confusion, must be \"fundamentalists\". if she really gets going, she'll write another sophomore english paper describing how derrida would agree that the narrative of player-versus-player deconstructs the social norms inherent in a postmodern reading of intra-group conflict. also, if she really gets trolling, she'll talk about how people who realize that eve is a pvp game must be similar to biblical literalists and abortion clinic bombers, because after all there's pvp and also cooperation. and as we all know, pvp games certainly don't have cooperation. when you log into a game of team fortress ii, you are activcely discouraged from ganging up with a group of people and working towards a common goal. pvp means wacky anarchy stuff and tfii isn't a pvp game anyways since you can build stuff and heal people and just sit around while your teammates yell at you, if you want. so, really, it's a cosmos. she's a funny troll when you realize that she takes herself very, very seriously and actually thinks that she's providing some sort of scholarly analysis. it all gets put in much better context if you know that she was an absolutely bat-**** crazy, frenzied supporter of ank who lied, constantly, and claimed that ank's own words, quoted and verified, were \"smears\" or \"trolling\" that was \"debunked\" (but oddly could never explain how they were debunked or shown to be false). she later went on to meltdown a bit and claimed that despite it being confirmed by numerous people, that ank really never threw a spoon at anybody, nopers. now she writes pretentious twaddle about eve. i liked her trolling better when she was just a shill for ank."
"if we were forced to trade through lowsec systems and forced to pass through lowsec in general, it would be absolute disaster to the game. our current server peak is around 50,000 players. if you remove carebears form the game, it's going to drop to around 25,000 players, or less.many people play this game alone or with small groups of people, and these people wouldn't stand a chance (even in an envoy) against griefing pirate campers who would love nothing more than for carebears to be forced to travel through their territory. i'm strongly against all of the op's suggestions, i think it's a terrible idea that many peaceful players would absolutely hate. it would change the game to pure pvp and there would be no use even trading anymore.forcing a play style upon someone is not the way to go in eve. eve is the largest, most diverse mmo out there, and if you streamline it like this, it becomes a linear piece of crap.this op has the most ridiculous, impossible ideas ever. there's just no way that forcing carebears to be slaughtered is in any way going to be a good thing for the eve universe. if you want to do that, you may as well take out all elements of economy in the game and redesign the game to have no isk and simply you skill up for a ship then fly it, and then go straight to fighting eachother."
"a good addition to your"
"gonna raise this as well as other stuff i will be adding before the meeting"
"i agree that would be a nice thing, but adding it now would bypass the crowdsourcing we did on the ui proposal. if you raise it as a proposal in the ah it can be separately considered by csm as a standalone proposal. my personal plan is to repeat the crowdsourcing for each expansion planning cycle."
"consider the original thread has been around since late 2006. i for one think its something that should be focused as soon as possible."
"yes.i posted in that old thread a long time ago."
"i agree, small ship maintainence bay would be awesome, and maybe give it (instead of a corp hangar) a bomb bay, to carry around bombs for the stealth bombers. or not, if that sounds outrageous"
"this is not allowed to drop off of the first page so.../nudge (not a full bump, just a nudge)"
"sensible ideas to develop player driven courier.... hope ccp could find some programmer love for the task."
"right on the mark this proposal"
"i leik pizza"
"i will bring up this issue at the next csm meeting :)"
"please god yes.i understand that ccp want planetary interaction to be engaging, but this mindless click-fest is not the way to do it. going to every single extractor and clicking, waiting for the scan, then selecting your deposit is absolutely fubar. it doesn't encourage any sort of thought beyond inspiring the desire to drill holes into ones own head.i find setting up pi to actually be a very cathartic and rewarding experience. you start to see your colony grow, and sometimes it takes on shapes that you didn't even plan for. squeezing every last bit of power-grid out of your cc's can be a fun little strategy game. and then the fun dies.there is no reason to not batch extractors. i see the logic behind \"working\" for your passive income, at least a little bit, but what we have here is not work. it is a waste of time. the dynamic nature of setting your pi up in the first place is work. but when everything is set up, there is no more thinking involved, so why force us to click 100+ times like mindless slavering drones?incidentally, i'm not raging about this because i just want things to go faster. the heart of this issue is that there is nothing more you really need to do after you set things up. now if ccp were kind enough to make pi a more fluid and organic experience, i would happily click away and be content with spending my time doing it. until then though, please let us batch extractors on a planet!"
"i have not abandoned low sec and it is distressing to hear people say they think they've wasted their vote. :( a lot of my csm effort so far has been devoted to improving process and communication with ccp to help ensure that csm is taken seriously and our ideas given due consideration. without that foundation, no amount of attention to low sec will matter.that list linked a couple of posts up was built from the items already in the csm backlog. low sec revitalization is not going to happen by implementing a collection of unrelated changes whether of the \"low hanging fruit\" variety or not. if you read the minutes' section on the two-hour low sec discussion, you know that resources to address changes on the scale of an expansion (which low sec would likely require) are not going to be available for 18 to 24 months because of prior commitments to other projects by ccp.it doesn't make sense--given that time frame--to jump the gun by pushing through a low sec proposal without making sure that it represents the best possible options for improving low sec. if we want ccp to focus on low sec, we have to captivate game designers like ccp greyscale with a great \"story\" that describes what we want low sec to be like, accompanied by a bunch of holistic ideas to illustrate the themes in that story. while greyscale said at the summit that a low sec revitalization would likely require an initial expansion, it only makes sense that any proposal include ideas that would be good candidates for interation over time. that would allow low sec to evolve--hopefully according to a plan and a vision that we, the players, largely defined.rico, your \"outlaw\" proposal is full of great ideas. i supported it. but others have had some excellent ideas as well. how do we combine them all into one proposal that \"makes sense\" from the \"story\" perspective that ccp uses in its development process to evaluate ideas and design game changes? these forums suck for that. they allow no cross pollination of ideas nor can gems hidden within other proposals rise to the top if those proposals don't get overall support.that's why i made the making low sec matter community at ideascale. \"outlaw\" is one of the key items for background reading. ideascale is ideal for sharing, voting on, and discussing individual ideas. you can assign categories and tags to ideas, easily find related topics, and through voting ideas up or down allow the most popular ones to bubble to the top.we have time to think about the content and approach of a low sec proposal that will reflect popular ideas, encompass a variety of playstyles, and speak in ccp's \"scrum language\" by telling a story of what we want low sec to be and illustrating it with the best ideas out there. i'd like to have something to submit to ccp by mid to late october, for discussion at the december summit. this thread may very well form the basis of that proposal, but there are also other ideas well worth including. the ideascale community is helping to gather, process, and weigh those ideas. i urge you to participate there. add your ideas from this proposal and encourage others to go vote on and discuss them. this is not something i can do by myself. it requires community effort. i hope you will get involved if you haven't already...and i hope you'll encourage everyone you know with an interest in low sec to do the same."
"greetings,as an lowsec inhabitant for many years as an outlaw, this might be a good place to state some opinions..it is my impression that lowsec is intentionaly excluded from developing by ccp. not much ppl live here, those that do, obviously dont matte much to devs. it is general thought in both hi and 00 space that outlaws are poor, pathetic creatures who cannot make make a stand in 00 or live happy in hi sec. low sec is generally ment to be avoided on autopilot and only as a place for cynos on the way to 00.well that is pathetic!low sec is a place for supreme, most finest pvp, where you can use all the fancy implants, and fancy mods to achieve victory in fights.true outlaws are pvpers who loath all the 00 bublle ****s, massive blobs whre you get to be only a cannon fodder for huge alliances and theire leaders who make real money out of harvesting rich 00 resources.it is in human nature to be a part of a group, but it also is in human nature to be recognosed as an idividual... 1000+ pos warfare hardly makes you special in any way...low sec does not have a lot to offer, except pvp, and that is why it is so empty...move all the lvl4 agents in low sec! you will get a baby boom here!!there is allready enough ways to make richies in hi sec, other than farming lvl4 missions...remove all the capital modules capabilities from low sec... ...and you will get finest, most glorious battles to be spoken about...these two things do not require much of a dev's work time, but would change the the ppl's minds and encourage them to do brave things.o7kramb"
"not according to the mission runners i asked about what would bring them to low sec."
"yes"
"it is already very easy to hide behind alts. let's not make it even easier to avoid consequences."
"there are no consequences. scammers don't undock. scamees don't bother to check names. corp thieves don't do it with their mains.the bottom line is anybody who does these things with their main character does not care to change their name. anybody who does this with an alt does not need to change their name.\as long as there is a link to previous names, there is no reason not to support this."
"as long as there is a name history located in the characters show info i really don't see the problem with this. also i would charge a plex to change a name and a free name change if the character is sold.try reading the thread first before posting.there already is no consequences for these people so what exactly would change? currently people either just sell their character or delete it and if character name changes are traceable and costly i don't see how it would change anything. the point of this proposal is to allow people who bought a character or named their character someone real bad at the start a one-time chance to do it again. if all the loopholes for scammers are cut out via a character name history then what is the problem?"
"supported"
"one of the best ideas around!"
"it's entertaining, but extremely useless. plus this bold text hurts my eyes. supported"
"i will miss his supper carriers though.+1"
"woohoo, less than 2 days and ive already got more support than all of his proposals put together"
"i lol'd in rl from this comment and thus... gets my support!"
"1.0"
"supported"
"supporting this."
"yes please."
"lmfao of course they won't/can't ban someone for being an idiot but it is a nice thought, soooo....supported!!!"
"out of all the ideas proposed, where do you come up with yours? just don't post anymore please, its for your own good"
"signed."
"signed!"
"signed"
"i would have supported the original topic without this, but this is just... too good to not use."
"super-capitals online, we have all heard that phrase and giggled at it - but is it merely the latest in doom-sayer talking point? i do not believe so.titan's are still largely restricted to 0.0 due to being super-sized dreadnaughts, mom's on the other hand have become so common that small'ish low-sec corporations can field several and the larger null-sec alliances can outright blob with them.this proposal is meant to address the ease with which super-capitals are currently being built without increasing their costs much as well as allow for more skirmish type combat in the great beyond.my proposal:- ihub to have same anchoring rules as tcu.- infrastructure upgrades (iu) to be 'attachments' on the ihub and \"reinforcable\" like station services.- reinforcing any iu disables any and all functions/features relying on said iu (ie. supercapital construction).- iu ehp to be sufficiently high so that they cannot be used as 'short-cuts' (ex. twice that of a cyno jammer). high enough to not be a cake-walk but low enough to not need uber-blobs.* requires sovereignty holders to stay alert and actively patrol their space, no longer able to just plan the next blob when timers dictate.* alliance space size more dependent on actual people using it rather than on how many can be fielded come crunch time.* allows for attrition warfare by small and large entities alike using fast and ganky fleets instead of capital blobs.notes:iu ehp should be resist based to make repairing them easier than just raw values - balancing.allowing ihubs at pos's as is customary for tcu's should minimize disorganized grief incapping of upgrades."
"this is not going to achieve anything towards the purpose of what you are trying to do. areas where supercap construction occurs very rarely sees a force big enough to incap these ius.it would not really change anything as far as i can see."
"that is because you need full blown blob to get anything done today and with yard systems tucked away in \"the back\" chances are it is a one way trip except if absolute number superiority can be had.giving smaller forces something to shoot no matter where they go will guarantee that said smaller forces will go everywhere .. just think about the distance that regular roams cover, this merely gives even more purpose/options to that kind of fleet.use it to disorient/confuse an enemy, to hamper his cash flow, disrupt his construction, break his bridge network etc. it is not just an anti-capital proposal (although that is what encouraged it) but rather a way for the null-sec crowd to have an option other than grabbing the bat-phone when the neighbour needs a stern talking to."
"supported."
"there's really 4 limitations that a mothership needs that seleene, aka abathor overlooked when creating these overpowered poss.1) remove drones from the bomber bay, create a separate drone bay. ccp already said they were intending to do this, but a year later and a few devs removed, i think the idea got lost. give motherships a 500 m^3 drone bay and restrict them to 5 standard drones launched.2) remove fighter capabilities of motherships. motherships have fighter bombers. that's their purpose, not fighters. allowing them the capabilities of both means they can attack far to many varieties of ships. 3) remove rr bonuses of motherships. as much as i hate the idea of any capital spider tank, i hate even more the fact that a super can do it. if motherships want to survive on passive tanks, then fine. but allowing a swarm of them to rr each other completely removes the need for a carrier. hence the reason we see everyone migrating to motherships as soon as they get the cash for one.4) reduce mothership hp by about 25% of their current level. also change the hel bonus to a 7.5% per level shield cap bonus since it's the most impacted by this. these four things should actually balance motherships to where they still have huge tanks, still have huge dps, but it reigns in on their ability to be a jack of all trades for virtual invulnerability in large groups."
"check"
"i do not like your ideas. no support."
"they just got boosted, as much as i hate having the things dropping on my head constantly in low sec, its a bit too soon after they've been boosted to nerf them into oblivion (which is what your post is essentially suggesting)"
"propose a pvp arena for casual pvp in an controlled environment. set number of opponents (1v1, 2v2, or uneven numbers if agreed upon), in an instance where others cannot interfere directly or indirectly (corpie blob, neut rr, or fleet bonus).considering the amount of jetcans with a single unit of ammo outside highsec stations, this feature is obviously wanted by many people. they have to make do with imperfect makeshift method, since we don't have a real arena. there may be many reasons why the practice is so prevalent, could be lack of time, unwillingness to roam through deserted lowsec hardly meeting a soul in hours, or just finding blobing (only form of pvp still existing in the wild) boring. if nothing else, it should ease server load by making undock jetcans in already high population systems go away."
"runescape -------->eve = sandbox"
"there might be support for a duealing option between neutrals, so concord doesn't interfere, but nothing really suggest there is significant ammount of support for an arena feature. on the contrary there is significant amount on people resisting any kind of arena feature. we know this because of the resistance this idea initiated when players found out, that ccp had tried and failed to implement such a feature.anyway not supported."
"if only a mere fraction of the undocking gamer and jetcanners want this feature, there would be huge amount of support. those who don't want to use it, don't have to. it's not mandatory. the only net effect in game would be moving the crowd at undocking port to their own arena, and maybe introduce pvp to a few carebears who wouldn't touch it otherwise. it won't have any effect on blobers."
"supporting my own topic. no downsides to it."
"the real problem with this idea is that it goes against everything that eve tries to be, which is a \"sandbox\" where there are no \"rules\" and \"safe\" ways of doing things, eve tries to mimic real life in this regard and there is nothing comparable to what you are requesting in real life as it would require a controlled environment."
"\"undocking gamer\" lolwut. canflippers and other people do not want this feature, trick-killing noobs with mining fits in hi sec is far different from a setup engagement where both people agree to pvp. also this would be a terrible introduction to pvp as an arena would have almost nothing in common with \"real pvp\".an arena is out of place in a game like eve. in eve you are constantly in danger and always at risk, even if that risk is very low. adding in no-risk mechanics and instances to eve is the exact opposite of what the developers are trying to do with eve and would destroy what makes eve unique."
"if you take things to extremes, there won't be a highsec.all the arena would do is take ppl playing undocking jetcan games and give them a place to do what they're trying to do by choice anyway, sandbox style. no one is forcing you to fight in an arena. let whomever wants it, use it. without it, those same ppl will continue ejecting cans trying to create a makeshift arena, failing, and adding to the clutter at undock ports. you cannot force them to join blobs and pvp your way, they'll just ignore you and keep ejecting cans instead. let them do what they want, sandbox style.arenas tournaments and the subsequent gambling revolving around it developed naturally in the real world. it would have in eve too, if players were able to build an arena. unfortunately they can't, so undocking ports get cluttered with jetcans holding one unit of ammo."
"first, bar in mind that this is independent of the aggro issues in empire and on gates. ccp knows about them and it's their problem to sort. logistics ships were put into this game to be the forefront of repairing abilities. as such, i'd like to see them get triage capabilities that might create an even more dynamic ability for them without overpowering them.with that in mind i'd like for logistics to get a role bonus that allows a compact triage module fitting. because of the nature of a cruiser class ship, there are obvious delema to the negative side effects of a classic triage module, so the new module would do the following:50% per level bonus to armor/shield and remote repair amount50% per level bonus to armor/shield repair and remote repair duration.100% per level increase to eccm strength.50% reduction in speed75% increase to signature radius.inability to be repaired while in triage.duration 2.5 minutes100 strontium per cycle with a 15% reduction per level skill. what does this do?probably the most notable is that it creates the potential to repair pos under cyno jammers in enemy territory. this ultimately benefits smaller scale warfare because the necessity to always remove cyno jammers to save towers is gone. it also creates a variety of tactics and fittings around logistics. the idea of bait guardians in small scale warfare comes into play where maybe it's formatted around super tank rather than rr abilities. maybe your attempting a dual setup where medium repairers are used in conjunction with plating and local repairers rather than the traditional large repairer format. there's also the shield side where logistics may receive a massive bonusthis adds another sandbox concept that creates more dynamics for players to decide on. a logistics ship in triage with 4 large armor repairers with the above bonuses would do the following:4 x 384 = 1536 repair2304 x 250% = 38404.5 seconds (t2) / 2.5 = 1.83840/1.8 = 2123 repair/s or 1,280,000 hp per 10 minor with 4 medium reps, 640,000 hp per 10 minthat compared to a carrier not in triage currently with 4 repairers:1500 x 4 = 60005 second rof6000/5s = 1200 repair/s or 720,000in traige a carrier does 12,000 repair every 2.5 seconds or 4,800 repair/s which is 2,880,000 mil hp per 10 min.ie logistics do their logistical duty, but carriers become the super logistic in a battlefield setting, while also having the non logistical ability to project offense out of triage or a larger logistical ability if you desire to risk it on a tower repair.to me, sounds like a role for each, rather than letting carriers spider tank and swarm with their current massive hp. disclaimer:while this is not directly linked to the following, i think it should be the ultimate goal. even still, it should be a good concept because of the diversity of options it allows. i want to state up front that this is an effort to move away from capital bonused remote repair when not in triage (ie their range boost). i think spider tanking capitals are horrible in this game and therefore no bonuses (ie range) should apply unless a carrier is in triage."
"so speed and sigradius are a big bit of your tank and you wanna take that away?and as it stands .... logistic cruisers are already pretty powerful."
"i think a big hole in this is that with the 50% rof increase and the inability to receive rr logis are not going to be able to sustain the cap for that setup at all, even with a full cap regen setup which would not be viable in a combat scenario anyways."
"because a 70 sig radius gaurdian will jump to a whopping 121 - gang bonuses = 95ish? speed yes, but it's also getting the self repair bonuses, which means a still small sig, a 300-320 speed, and self repair. it's called trade off... of course it will lose something. it says inability to be repaired, not an inability to receive cap transfers."
"it's an interesting idea but personally i think that logis are pretty buffed as is. i don't really see a benefit from buffing them further. just look at a guardian with logi v, pretty high amount of reppage with cap stability to boot.edit: the only way i can see this being implemented is if the triage mod was very pg heavy and would seriously gimp the logi in other ways."
"triage carrier cant get any logistics. so to be consistent triage logistic cruisers shouldnt be able to recieve cap either.and yes i think you will notice that increase in sigradius.anyway your arguments are not really convincing. thumbs down from me. especially guardians dont need a buff."
"i'm actually keen on the idea of having all sov mechanics applying to all sec levels. the artificial restriction of sec level is another bugbear of mine.fw has bunkers to kill to gain occupation status, nullsec has tcus to claim sovereignty.what if occupation and sovereignty were a continuum? what if npc empires (amarr, guristas alike) had to claim sovereignty? what if players could declare loyalty to a faction, (ie: have that faction set them \"blue\") thus allowing all actions by that player to benefit the faction?so where we currently rat in a system or run anomalies to raise military index or what not, the same works for npc empires.only allow pve folks to accept missions from agents if they are not allied to an enemy faction.if you want to reduce someone else's sovereignty, go ratting/plexing/bunkering in their system while you're red to them - sbus and tcus should be one stage of the sovereignty disruption.allow corporations to pay tribute to a faction, which will boost that faction's presence in terms of npc police forces.have sec status linked to concord index (which would require a concord ihub module, available only to empires), with concord index linked to enemies of concord killed in that system (ie: rats with bounties). low sec would then be empire sovereignty with poor concord index. concord index could also be linked to distance from the empire's designated capital.i would like sec status to be dynamic, and i would like serpentis etc to have the ability to harden their space in much the same way the empires can."
"for all of 3 days. then we will have thousand of poor alliance members crying in these forum that faction forces and concord are too strong and asking them to be nerfed, high sec people protesting that the server is not working as the invading fleets would totally screw node balancing, traders that is is impossible to trade and so on.time a few months (depending of length of prepaid subscription) and most of the people would have left eve. thenyou would have your lag free game with 5.000 people on line at peak hours."
"while i would support bombs in low sec, i would not do so in high sec. not to mention bubbles and caps. the last thing this game needs is to become even more capital ships online."
"when did the assembly hall shorten it's name to the ass hall?"
"@dierdra vaal: allow me to get off topic for a bit - \"capital ships online\" (tm) is an artifact of the existing cost (or relative cheapness vs value) of the current ships. e.g. take a golem (615m isk avg) vs. a chimera (655m isk avg) - dare i say that is "
"i don't personally like this idea. i think that certain things need to stay in low / nullsec for these reasons:1. creates an allure for new players to venture into these areas.2. having these ships in highsec will pose a \"threat\" to the npc factions and would have them attack you. think of it like russia bringing a bunch of tanks to the us because they \"can\". this will create political tension and will lead to problems.3. the game needs to have stable, static factors (empire, concord, etc.). removing these restriction will create a snowball effect of removing restrictions and this will end poorly.4. this will make the game even harder for new players who are already struggling trying to understand this game. i am mainly referring to bombs. in summary i don't think this will be beneficial for the game."
"@galaddamodred: i'm not suggesting removing concord or empire, ect. i'm simply suggesting removing the artificial restriction on some items."
"the problem with this, if you look at point #2, after this restriction gets lifted people will suddenly want to be able to attack and capture empire stations, etc. i think that this opens a whole can of worms.additionally aside from carriers any capital ship that is not allowed in empire is strictly a large scale combat ship (super carriers, dreads and titans) and as i said, i don't know how the empire factions would not perceive this as a threat and react negatively. and on the subject of carriers, i don't see any legitimate use for these ships in empire. the logistics bonus is negligible as you can afk ap to most places and just move things and this will just make the whole station camping and neut rr situation that much worse.without other caps there is literally going to be no way to kill a carrier in 30 seconds before he docks."
"bombs, hell no. can you imagine the concord blob you'd get from setting one off outside jita 4-4? if the node doesn't crash entirely... it lags without combat going on as it is, despite a dedicated node.i'd support bringing capitals into highsec though, with the stipulation that all fittings must be offline (and that onlining a capital mod or launching any combat/ewar drones would trigger a concord response, non-offensive subcap modules should be acceptable). it would stand to reason that the empire factions would also tightly control capital traffic, so standings of 5 and higher with the sovereign faction would make sense.and, reading the note on docking games with caps in highsec (*shudder*), performing any action that aggress you (as in, allows other players to attack you) should also generate concord response. undocking a capship during war would be funny - you can show it off, but can do just about nothing with it. rring would spring to mind, but repping an ally gets you an aggression timer against whoever is shooting who you're repping, triggering concord for using a capital for aggressive actions.anyway, as the op stands, not supported."
"hey i know! let's make black ops even more worthless!"
"7. trolling is prohibited.trolling is the word used to describe a post that is deliberately designed for the purpose of angering and insulting the players. posts of this nature are disruptive and do not contribute to the sense of community we want for our forums."
"so first you lost a solo lowsec freighter, so you whine about that. second you lose a mining ship, i assume in a mining fleet, because some hostiles came in and you didn't have any defense, so you whine about that. then you try invention, but discover that the one thing you wanted to make was ruined by bpos, so you whine about that. then the rig thing, not sure where that came from. now you lose a ratting ship to some bombers that came through a covert cyno, so, of course, you whine about that.stop. posting.fake edit: if a fleet of black ops, stealth bombers, recons, and, god forbid, blockade runners poses a major threat to your nullsec space, you should reevaluate your security."
"stop this **** already.just like all your other proposals, this is nothing but rant and whine.the sad part is, i don't believe a troll would bother to behave this dumb for so long."
"your assuming he knows how to read?you give him too much credit."
"instead of arguing with a flagrant troll, the wiser course of action would be to simply ignore his threads."
"you do realize that each level of rig skill lowers the \"drawback\" of the rig don't you? thus although unskilled people can get the benefit of the rig, they also get a larger penalty for using them."
"sounds good."
"e-mail confirmation + 1 week timer after e-mail confirmation just to be safe"
"but this should raise alarm bells at ccp- email change followed by character sale... stinks of a hack.1 week timer sounds good."
"hi all,i was thinking on how to improve the pve aspect of eve. if you have played any other mmo you will know that it is nearly impossible to complete the hardest pve tasks alone, you also know this is not the case in eve (excluding nullsec 10/10 plexes)here is my idea on improving this, if you have run non-ded rated complexes you know that these have a chance to escalade. i would like to implement this to missions as well.the way this would work is that when you complete the mission objective you will have a chance to get a popup screen with a message about a continuation to the mission that will be located 1-6 jumps away (depending on mission level). as in plexes the second phase will be more difficult and will require multiple players. these will have a new set of rewards from the mission agent and will have to be completed within a standard mission time frame and will incur the same penalties for declining them too often.a feature that will also need to be implemented is that mission completion for escalations will be automatic with the rewards being distributed between all fleet members.what i believe this will do is create more cooperation between players who are not affiliated with each other by using the fleet finder tool to create fleet to tackle these escalations. this will create a much more challenging pve aspect to eve.i kind of brainstormed this pretty quick so if you have any idea to improve this please post below and i can edit the op."
"probably totally pointless to add this because they probably change their mind every few days, but ccp said something about group pve in the next expansion...but yea, it would be nice. level 4s (and 5s with the right ship) can be soloed, and in groups it's just loltastic. some challenging group missions would be nice. (even just scaling the mission, so that 1 person = missions like they are now, 2 people = 50% more rats? etc)"
"eve pve is easy, except for the parts that are not. (also, class 5-6 wormholes)eve pve sucks not because it's too easy, but because it's too predictable. there are walkthroughs out there for every mission, every complex and every spawn, because they are always the same, down to the last frigate. except for wormholes, the npcs are acting completely braindead, meaning that pretty much anything can be easily fought with two or three ships. pve needs some pretty radical changes to bring it up to par with other games, simply spawning bigger and more npcs won't cut it."
"this is not really true, if you look at any other large mmo that has good pve such as wow or even runescape (lol), there are literally guides for every pve encounter but despite that you are going to need anywhere from 2 to 10 people to be able to kill the \"boss\" and still have a good chance to die if you mess up.you have to realize that no matter how dynamic or variant a pve experience is there is always going to be a guide for it because its going to have to operate on some stable factors and patterns."
"random = difficulty. i would settle for just more randomness in my mission spawns..."
"the problem with \"random\" is that it still has to have parameters, how many \"variable scenarios\" can there be? 3? 5? 20? any of these amounts are still going to be figured out and done, perhaps even solo.the only way i see the pve experience improving is by creating more dangerous / lucrative situations which can easily result in you dying if not done with the proper fleet composition and support.i'm going to keep referencing wow as it is generally agreed that they have pve figured out pretty nicely. in wow there are raids which literally can't be done without a group of people each doing a specific role, anything else means death.i think eve should be more similar to that."
"i think it was mentioned during the last alliance tournament that ccp are working on, or at least want to work on, some sort of dynamic fleet pve feature. that might be what op is looking for; we can cross our fingers and hope they get around to doing it.the feature you describe sounds like just turning missions into complexes. how would that change the overall pve experience? harder complexes are already done with several players, or with one player in a bigger ship, or one player with multiple accounts."
"class 5-6 whs, currently top among pve content, is hardly hard. get a couple of carriers and grind the escalations. it has more to do with inaccessibility and logistics. people who are willing to put up with the pain in the ass gets to grind it, skills play little part."
"issue: the bounty system as it is now is mostly useless. a player with a bounty on their head can jump clone into a clone with no implants and get a friend to kill him to claim the bounty.idea: replace the bounty system with a new type of contract, a bounty contract. to issue a bounty contract, you select the target - can be an individual character, a corporation or an alliance. you also select the bounty amount, time limit and a maximum number of rewarded kills. a bounty contract can be issued to the public - in this case, it will work much like the system in place now, or to an individual, to a corporation or to an alliance. after issuing the contract, the amount of bounty for the given maximum number of kills is withdrawn from the issuer and put into escrow.every time the target or a member of the target corporation or alliance is killed, the bounty amount is withdrawn from escrow and deposited into the killer's personal, corporation or executor corporation wallet. this goes on until either the maximum number of kills is reached or the time limit expires. if the time limit expires before the number of kills is reached, any remaining isk in escrow is returned to the issuer.note that a bounty contract by itself does not give the rights to the contractor to attack the target in high security space without punishment from concord. the contractor will need to utilize one of the existing game mechanics (war declaration, aggression, suicide ganking) to get kills in highsec.additionally, there could be an option to pay bounties for pod kills only (as it is now), for ship kills, or for both.the contractor can still make a deal with the target to intentionally kill them in cheap ships/pods, this is intended. but a target can no longer use their own alt character or call their friends to collect the bounty. this change would also allow for formalized mercenary contracts, making startup mercenary corporations more viable.i came up with this idea after reading another of the hundred bounty threads, and i do not see any immediate flaws with it. but i have also given it only maybe half an hour's thought, so i would appreciate any comments."
"questions:what's to stop the target's alt from accepting the contract and killing himself, as he does now?why not an option to pay a percentage of destruction isk value, to prevent people from farming bounty of noobships, and instead encourage the economic damage intended?something definitely needs to be done about the pathetic bounty system atm, but this needs more refinement or it won't do anything to fix the problem."
"if it's a public contract, nothing. if the contract is issued to a corporation / alliance, the target would have to have an alt in that corp/alliance.first, it's very hard to define isk value of something. second, the money needs to be in escrow when the contract is issued - how else will you handle the case when the issuer doesn't have enough isk to honor the bounties?thanks for the questions."
"simply yes. we need better bigger overload buttons.. the ones we have now is tiny and in the heat of the moment, you might turn the module of instead of overloading it.no further explanation needed"
"yes something to rework it, larger button, option to turn that on/off if people don't like it."
"the opposite actually happens to me: i want to activate a module, and i overheat it instead. there needs to be a button, not just \"click somewhere near the top of the module icon, or slightly above it\".also, let ctrl + click a module = overheat."
"this issue was recently addressed by the csm and was the #2 small issue in our prioritization crowdsourcing effort.before raising an issue in ah, it is a good idea to check the issues in process, resolved and rejected sections of the wiki to make sure you are not duplicating something that has already been addressed."
"venkul, i think you are right that this is not a matter of pvp fundamentalism. its nice to talk about these issues without that doctrine getting in the way. xorv, i appreciate the thoughtful and constructive reply. i actually don't think our perspectives are that far apart. while we may differ on how to balance the various elements of the eve sandbox, that seems to me to be a matter of legitimate debate. as for myself, my primary concern is the griefing of others, not piracy or pvp in general (pvp is actually my favourite activity). and like you, i wouldn't want to create entirely safe zones in eve. so for example, i wouldn't end suicide ganking per se, but i would stop rewarding it with insurance payments for the griefer's ships. i'd also apply this kind of reasoning to the other elements of eve that are prone to griefing. venkul, ana and others are making an important point about the diversity of eve as a sandbox. perhaps this is a point we can all agree upon, even if we differ on certain specifics. for instance, while i believe pvp is indispensable in the sandbox, i don't think it should be the sole or even primary driver of all aspects of eve's future development. nor should it be the one or prime standard by which everything else is judged. not that you are saying this, i'm simply expressing my presuppositions. it is with these presuppositions in mind that i approach the issue of a low sec buff. it should draw not force people into its space. high sec residents who are not looking for this element of the game already have their hands full with the suicide ganks, wardecs, ninja salvagers, can flippers, corp thieves, and so on. i do not think we should impose more upon them as a fix for low sec. rather, low sec needs a fix in its own right, something with positive pull factors instead of negative push factors. so may i ask for another opinion from you, if only for the sake of discussion, and as someone who seems to spend a good deal of time in low sec? if you were to look to pull factors as a fix for low sec, what would you suggest? looking forward to your thoughts on this. delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"pretty sure ccp said \"no\" to that proposal. they felt you didnt want guns to continue firing after reload. the csm disagreed but hamerhead wouldn't budge."
"i totally agree with the idea of disbanding the csm!!! when i was in the csm i hated having to be banded to allow ccp to study my migratory habits!!! the band iched and chafed!! remove those cruel bands and let the csm fly free!!!!(besides, we know they all can be found, in the better bars within walking distance from nonnis most of the year!)issler dainzefinally free of her migratory ccp mandatory csm tracking band!"
"we did put together a prioritized list of development items, which included player participation in helping shape the priorities. that list was evaluated as part of the dev planning meetings last week. based on communications from ccp, i feel confident that some csm items are being given dev love for the winter expansion. maybe not the sweeping changes that many players would like, but every step forward--no matter how small--is progress. as soon as ccp has finalized their dev planning and we are allowed to share information about what csm items will be addressed, we will do that--hopefully in a csm dev blog.anyone who is willing to look up from typing their rants against the csm and pay attention to recent dev blogs, forum posts by myself and other csm members as well as players in response to dev blogs, and individual players' blogs should be able to observe a positive trend in the collaboration and communication between ccp and csm. these two things have been the primary obstacle to measurable csm accomplishments before now. recently, the way forward to csm actually being able to get something done has become more accessible. the process is still annoyingly cumbersome, but there is progress--especially lately.the hobby haters don't want to acknowledge that, though. some people enjoy being contrary for the sake of it. let them. *shrugs* personally, i ignore uninformed, vitriolic rants against csm. players who engage with intelligence and offer informed, insightful opinions and suggestions (whether for or against the csm) will get my attention and influence how i do my job as a csm delegate. this is a personal perspective, i might add. i do not speak for the whole of the csm or for any other delegate."
"reading through this forum, and seeing the endless rubbish that is coming out over incidences of the past couple of days/weeks/months/years - i think it's time for ccp to just ditch the whole idea of the csm.what rubbish are you talking about? you come in with big guns and no ammo. i believe people are smarter than you give them credit for. please provide links or the info that you have alleged to have read of endless rubbish so we can see what you see. sounds to me to be over-embellished. if there have been a few incidents, it is because they are human and humans will always have their own agenda.once i caught two cops smoking weed, according to your style of thinking we should disband the cops all over the world. this comment is just as over the top.from this players pov it's a waste of time and effort. less than 10% of the player base votes in the farce that is portrayed as an election.i see the accusation, i don't see where you may have got that info from. where is the poll that gave the players point of view?the so called \"representatives\" garner votes mainly from game alliances and alt-trolling campaigns, and every csm results in more of the same - nda breaches, meta spying, allegations of gm corruption, etc, etc, etc.okay the first two comments apply to this, info, info and more info need.a religious man told me the hadron collider will create a black hole. word of mouth from this religious figure must have been true, or did he have his own agenda? to date nothing that has been discussed at any of the csm's over the past couple of years has resulted in any ingame changes. lots of hot air and forum poasts get generated, but unfortunately this is not a balloon based mmo so all that effort goes to waste.i don't know what they have or have not done as it is not openly discussed. if i were you i would be asking that question instead of trying to start a forum riot. this would probably be an easier thing to accomplish as well. if by chance you do know give us a link to the info.so it's time to disband this farcical concept. it's time that ccp used the money that goes into the csm to hire some more qa or devs.the concept of dust 514 hints to me you may be wrong. till dust 514 is released you may have to wait for the changes you seek to come to fruition.now that would be a worthwhile way for ccp to spend the money we give it each month.you sound like a person that knows a thing or two about ccp's financial patterns. really if you have the financial portfolio of ccp do share. i would love to see how a successful company spends its money."
"i'd like to put"
"lets get this....... where do i sign?"
"supported.i've seen too many half assed patches. its to the point that when i see a dev blog i cringe, because i know it means that the devs have chosen to neglect all the unfinished things from last cycle and are starting on a whole new set of things they will never complete. i'm tired of seeing a multi-million dollar company consistently perform at amateur levels.this is not a new topic either. since ccp destroyed the game engine with dominion, it has remained broken for a year while ccp is busy burning man hours on browser games (pi) and avatars for incarna. nobody wants another ford pinto. fix your ****, hire some professionals and for the love of god, put somebody in charge of development that has an attention span longer than a fishes ****."
"i like their communication !nothing but nothing at all about features bugs !all they tell us is that they are working on the lag but not yet have a solution, asking them if their architecture is good or not, that they build a new 3d character engine just to walk in station and no more, that they planned to make us big new adventures on planets...when just that : guys again we don't listen to you !yeay"
"af's just need a little boost in effectiveness to really come into their own and kick some ass in evewhat that 'little boost' should be...i've no idea....sorry. supported, anyway."
"anyone who's not supporting this topic is either pussies in pvp that are way to scared to pvp without 4368048765497 neutral rr alts behind your ass that can just instadock if it doesn't go your way.when someone starts a war that are between 2 corps / alliances, then that war is only between them and no one else. but if some neutral rr alts want to help some of those 2 corps'es / alliances, then that neutral rr alts is going in between those 2 corps'es / alliances and are going into their business / war and need to get punished for it.simply because the war between the 2 corps / alliances is something that the neutral rr alt shouldn't have anything to do with because he's not a part of those 2 corps'es / alliances.so this topic is 100% supported.edit: the rr mechanics doesn't really need to be changed in 0.0 space though. because as things are there when it's about rring, it's pretty good as it is now.neutral rr alts in empire with no risks is the real problem here."
"not supported; it's bad enough flying logis already, getting aggro for repping too would just be plain retarted. if neutral alts upset you stop camping jita and go to npc 0.0 or something, and camp stations there instead."
"do you even know what an empire war decing corp is all about?"
"perfect summation of what is needed... except there was one thing missing..please make couriers have a bigger and separate contract numbers impact. a limitation to outstanding transport orders is ******ed. limit on contracts should be on autctions and item exchange etc if any, not on something that is key to developing a good shipping business."
"troll alt alert !!!! :peve is considered a mature / adult game so everything which would logically exist in mature and adult fantasys and dreams and sexual stuff should be able to get presented in eve as well if you don't like to see it, close your eyes and gtfo period"
"i agree with you, these gallenteans are completely depraved ! join the empire and fight these sinners for your redemption. burn the infidels !!!"
"supported."
"lmao"
"long time since, this topic made some happy tears in my eyes. gogogo!we also want lesbian shows and live action!"
"megathrons and rokh with large railgun works very well.ferox and any ships with medium railgun works terrible.a boost to railgun is good but just the medium one please."
"that's why fleet composition is moving towards the apoc right? because they're scared of being too op with the once 'standard' fleet ship the megathron and the once 'premier' sniper ship the rokh, nobody wants to be unfair to their enemies by using so many railguns which work very well.seriously though railguns work fairly poorly to ok in theory but fare even worse in practice when average fleet ranges, t2 ammo, lock limit, alpha, cap use, ammo use are all taken into effect.scrolling through a random killboard tells the tale quite effectively, where there are 15 amaar bs there were merely 6 megathrons and 2 rokhs so in spite of hybrids representing 50% of eve's races and more still of the actual population there were little better then half as many of their turret boats fielded. those who flew dominixes chose to fit drone mods, rr and in one case medium autocannons and hyperions were nowhere to be seen.rails aren't fine and i hope to see them fixed and given some competitive role soon."
"yep, boost those rails."
"best proposal in a long time."
"dest = fail, any boost is a welcome boost"
"the t3 thought i don't support. i think that should be tied to the ship size skill (frig, cruiser, bs) not to the blanket skills (destroyer, battlecruiser)"
"it is a t1 stuff anyway.t2 assault destoryer will nerf afs and interceptors but they are already too weak against neuts,scrambers even just some medium turrets."
"this is really needed. added support :)"
"oh god yes"
"edit: trained reading to i and found support button."
"hope this will be including on the pi content of the winter extension ^^"
"4: pirate faction ships and items become illegal in hisec, so whilest usable in hisec, become available only through the black market....---------------------------don't like this at all.i don't support your good ideas just because of this one."
"\"it is my impression that lowsec is intentionaly excluded from developing by ccp. not much ppl live here, those that do, obviously dont matte much to devs. ........\"\"low sec is a place for supreme, most finest pvp, where ...\"\"low sec does not have a lot to offer, except pvp, and that is why it is so empty...\"\"move all the lvl4 agents in low sec! you will get a baby boom here!!\"do you realy not see what you've done there? that one post basically sums up why lowsec has received such little attention, and will continue to do so untill a fundamental change in game play occurs by many people.all you are wanting to do is for ccp to drag more targets kicking and screaming out of high sec and under your guns.prediction #1 for you mynxee - if your next few months of work is going to be aimed at achieving nothing more than dragging more targets into lowsec for 13 year old (mental or physical) so called outlaws to shoot at then you are wasting your time as ccp neither will (or should) do so.if your serious about making lowsec into what it should be a number of so called styles of game-play are going to have to not so much be weeded out, as modified."
"his all bold posts are annoying and they hurt my eyesbtw, you beat me to itedit: just linked this thread to all of cromo's thread i could find, if you get on quick, you'll see the block of cromo threads with me as last poster (theres about 5 or so)edit 2: dear god how many trolls did this guy make? im still finding them, and i still have to go through features and idea discussion forum ."
"yes."
"1.0"
"usually i am against such personal attacks but his behavior is making this entire forum section even more useless than normal"
"wow, even im surprised at the amount of support this is getting. keep it up guys :d"
"hey cromo effect (emo tj). i see that you are still making extremely ******ed and stupid posts as you always have been doing. nice to see that you haven't even got your head out of your ass by now.and because of this, i have to support this topic."
"let the hammer fall."
"the scottish fold approves"
"\o/, scottish fold approval is best approval."
"checked"
"cromo effect,come on living in and after in an other 0.0 and you will understand the point."
"while i don't agree that the isk/h ratio is wrong and the lack of low ends (which is also the problem in any other 0.0 region) results from your own striving for isk, i agree that drone regions could use some fixing. in particular the faction bs and exploration part."
"would it be possible to trade sunglasses for duct tape at certain stations?"
"supported"
"lulz-worthy ideas, all...supported!"
"i think it would be epic if you could buy a plex and cash it in for issues of eon or similar items in the eve store.so you paid postage only.ideally opening for more items for plex in the store would be awesome, but at least eon which is kind of a hot seller would be viable within ccp budget, loss wise!?the pr value alone would make up for a lot of the potential loss.since the rl money have already been injected into ccp giving back to the community this way would be nice. ofc maybe only one of each issue bound to each account would be a way to limit this in regards to abuse..ups wrong tab.. please move to assembly hall!"
"i like it, would make up for the mirror being behind+1"
"let me think, hells yes!"
"seems good, and people going to sisi only to try something won't have to wait for it with these instant sp, and so will be able to do what they were here for sooner xd"
"i have been in null-security all my eve time, from the moment my character was created. i have seen all capital ships in game and all of them have this bug.make them much, much bigger! it sucks to look at a hyperion and see that it is the same size as a thanatos capital! same goes for titans. when i heard titans i thought they were gonna be in the size like hundreds of kilometres! i got completely dissapointed.so, a good idea is to make carriers a little smaller than titans, supercapitals a little bigger than titans and titans about 150km is ok in my opinion.who supports the idea? if you got a better suggestion go ahead."
"i think there is another thread similar to this onehmmm yes for the size, no for the orderbattleship < dreadnaughts < carriers < motherships < titans"
"be aware that titans still need to fit inside pos shields.i think the size of titans is fine as it is, it is carriers/suppercarriers that need a slight boost. dreadnaughts are fine too."
"this"
"er, to be fair, titans already are pretty massive compared to everything else: comparison chart"
"titans are definitely big enough, the only thing that comes close to dwarfing a titan is celestial bodies and space both of which should always be much larger then the ships in game.that said i wouldn't oppose some increases in size for carriers though and perhaps motherships, both with the capacity to carry battleships but neither particularly looking like it."
"why? maybe they shouldn't be allowed to fit inside a pos?anyways, i think titans are ok.but chimera, its only 1.5k long. wtfffff"
"we all know the bounty system is flawed and ther have been numerous options discussed on how to fix it, i had a little idea about what could be done to fix the problem and provide a new career.change the bounty office so you can accept a \"mission\" to collect a bounty. these missions have a 1 week time limit on them.when you accept a bounty you will be given a character that has a bounty on their headwhat character will depend on a few factors.1) the region you are in.2) the amount of bounty on their head3) your security statusyou will only receive a mission for a character that is located within the region you are currently in and is currently online. should they log off you will have added them to contacts anyway and will find out, when on a mission you can use the bounty office anywhere to run a locator on the character for an amount of isk.in order to get you a target the system looks at the bounties of all the characters with a bounty currently located in your region and then works out a bounty level for each character based on how much the bounty is, less bounty = lower level, more bounty = higher level (i'm sure there's a mathematical term for what i'm describing but i don't know it). if your security status is 0.0 you can only accept bounties for the bottom 1% of the bounties, as your security rating increases so does the level of bounty mission you will be offered. you can accept any bounty mission below that level and can accept multiple bounty missions at once (the amount could be based on a skill to a maximum of 5)if your sec status i below -2.0 then you wont be able to accept bounty missions. (sorry pirates) when hunting for a bounty you can do so in a fleet and the rewards will be split evenly across your fleet in the same way regular missions do now. (check box when you hand in the mission at the nearest bounty office)the rewards for completing a bounty are a large increase in security status and the bounty itself. (plus you killed a guy and would obviously loot his wreck and salvage.when you are on a bounty mission you are free to kill that character in any system in eve.the same character could have several people with bounty missions searching for him, once a characters bounty is collected the other missions are deemed to have failed but there are no negative repercussions other than you wasted a bit of time because your not a very good bounty hunter.i think this mechanic would solve a few issues with the current bounty system, offer a new career for players and corporations, and would provide a fix for the no advantage to high security status. it would also make it very difficult for a player to simply pod himself with an alt.in order for this system to work, and be profitable for bounty hunters there would need to be a minimum bounty that can be set on a player. don't know how much though, i'd say 5 million isk. for the initial bounty would make being a bounty hunter worthwhile.if any one has any comments i'd love to hear them, and if you spot any massive holes or flawy in the system point them out so everyone can see and critique it constructivly."
"when you are on a bounty mission you are free to kill that character in any system in eve.the same character could have several people with bounty missions searching for him.--------------------this just adds more killrights without any warning.the person being chased should be able to know who are chasing him."
"doesn't solve the fundamental problem of bounties - a person with bounty on their head could still get a friend or an alt to kill them and claim the bounty for themselves.instead, your idea introduces another problem - i see a freighter on ap through highsec? let's put 5,000 isk bounty on him and go gank him."
"like the idea.people can see if they have a bounty on theyr head and maybe can get a message if a bountyhunter is after them.about the thing with a friend killing you, maybe you can solve the problem with a small change. only a part of the bounty is paid when a bountyhunter kills the target and the rest is used for a second or third mission, based on the total bounty. cause of the fact that the bountyhuntermissions are created with a random factor of who is the target and how high the bounty is, you have to do some work to get all the bounty on your head.haven't used bountysystem since ages, isn't it so that the target has to have a secstate of -2.5 or lower to even get a bounty on his head, so normal freighter pilots would be save.if it becomes to profitable for the bountyhunters, maybe a bountyhunter license can be introduced, that has a monthly cost, like sov, and only if you have one you can accept those missions."
"oh yeah the idea of this is that only the person that has the mission will receive the bounty when they kill the target. the eve system knows who kills who (killmails) so is easy enough to check.the person with the bounty should not be informed if people are after them. they should know they might be chased down at any moment. the freighter thingy would not really work. how many freighter pilots do you know who are neg2.5 sec? and as the bounty missions are selected at random from a pot there is no garauntee you'll get the chance to kill them."
"i kind of like this ideathe fact that getting the mission will pick a random pilot for bountybut i would put it anywhere in eve. though locator agents will be able to determine the region he/she is in and if he is in the region then the agent will give constelation all the way to system location. also possible have teh same level system as regular agent missions you get agent/corp standings and when they reach certain point then higher value bounty may be accesed.and a person with a bounty should not have any idea if someone has his mission or not. to put more umpf into it i would add more than 1 person may take the same mission.problem 1 i can purposely fail a mission to get new targets until i get my main toon and then kill him and claim the bounty on myselfproblem 2 what if the target is in your corp/alliance/coalition/factionnote: it should be fine if someone places a bounty on anyone they want, though a minimum price has to be place and not something any mr nooblet rookieplayer can pull out of their arse, somehting like 10 million minimum.its the begining of a new idea, i like it ill support it"
"i think same region would work best, if the guy is in wh or in 0.0 its gonna be way too difficult to track him down get yourself / your fleet into the area without getting your ass handed to you. that was the idea, bounties are selected at random, so it is possible for more than one person to get the same character.it kinda is the same but instead of standings it uses security status to determine which bounties you can access the higher your sec status the higher the bounty you get.24 hour timer on when you can view a bounty mission, and you train a skill that enables you to have more than one concurrent mission at a time (max 5). after 24 hours you can decline the mission and get a new one. 24 hours should give you plenty of time to search the kill-boards and forums to see where your target is, what ships they fly etc.you can decline one mission a day without losing anything.if you want to decline another mission in that same day you have to pay the bounty office some isk as a finders fee to the bounty office. if you complete a bounty then the finders fee is deducted from the amount you receive, this amount could be reduced by training a skill. means you can decline a really difficult target without losing isk but stops any spamming. also its kinda how a bounty office really works.well you might not be the only person looking for him, you can either choose to help your corp-mate and guard him, kinda like harboring a criminal, or you and a few buddies can go out and kill him anyway and get the bounty you bunch of backstabbing bastardsit's a sandbox after all."
"i still thin all of eve would be better since all people with bounty would have to do is go out deep into low sec or worse 0.0 within their alliances. so bounty hunters would need to pick a bounty office in a station they can;t get into due to being \"red\" to that 0.0 zone. having the mission all around eve randomly, you might end up with a 0.0 pilot and now it becomes a corporation mission or an alliance bh op. as for wormholes well thats just impossible to even track let alone find them. so mission agents would ignore wh space pilots at the time they pick the mission."
"yes a player with a large bounty could run to 0.0 to hide from the law, after all 0.0 is lawless space. if they venture back into high sec (0.1 - 1.0) for whatever reason they will immediatly be back in the system, easily trackable and potentially have a bounty mission assigned to them. the risk/reward system will apply here as there is more risk in 0.0 and the reward is more isk from ratting and protection from bounty missions, the risks are that 0.0 is ghey.e ie 0.1 - 1.0 i do see your point but i believe bounties should only be a game mechanic that applies to policed space."
"ban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"ban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"please explain this... an aeon will still get around 60mil ehp tops, a nyx will still do 10,000 dps tops. the difference is that motherships won't be effective against smaller ships like battle cruisers and cruisers. that's a balance that this game needs."
"the nerf might be going a bit too far, but i generally agree with all 4 points.also, we shall call them assault carriers."
"as a pilot flying about with an absurd amount of motherships being fielded constantly, maybe you could make them less feasible in some way. i mean, as of now they flatten anything and can't be tackled by poses, incap pos mods in 2 minutes, and are nearly invincible to dds. but you are basically making them useless again, and i don't know if we should do that."
"it's very easy to make that statement without backing it up. but as of now, it's only a statement. please explain how they become useless after this change. based on your logic, they will still flatten pos mods, still be nearly invincible to dd (after change, an aeon would tank 20 dd, a nyx about 15), yet they can't just flatten anything that moves, only large objects w/o fighters which means they can be tackled more easily.removing rr adds another vulnerability. removing 25% of their hp buffer adds yet another vulnerability. if anything, you just talked yourself right out of your own argument."
"totally not supported."
"so, two people in this thread have now claimed that this would nerf them into uselessness, and i'm just not seeing it. could someone elaborate, please?-they would still be the same anti-capital offensive powerhouses that they presently are (and that was their intended purpose, after all).-they would be less effective against battleships and smaller, but so what? they would still be far from helpless against those ships, and this would adhere to the \"no solopwnmobiles\" rule, anyway. there are a lot of other ships that are already very good at taking out bs and smaller ships - there's no good reason a mom should supercede them all.-they would have a bit less hp. i actually think 25% is probably a bit severe. i would go for a much more conservative number - 10-15%, maybe - to start.-they would actually depend on carriers for remote repping. oh-****ing-noes, people would have to field mixed fleets instead of saying, \"hmm.. what else should we bring? i know - moar moms!\". the humanity."
"yeah drones should get a separate bay on both carriers, i think you're being a bit too restrictive on their drone use though, sure it may be aggravating to have 20 warrior iis on your tail but all it takes is 3 dominix to outdo the supercarrier in that role all in all i'm against taking away the utility of these tertiary capabilities in being able to carry flights of most of the major drone types.i simply don't agree with this, supercarriers are in the new change much more focused on attack over other roles, given that even fighters can find difficulty with small targets i don't see their presence as a problem, that said removing the damage bonus applied to fighters might be a better idea.yes. ever since supercarriers shifted into the heavy capital attack role these rr bonuses have felt misplaced and disruptive to balance, i'd go as far as to say stripping the range bonus from all supercarriers and replacing the hel's bonus to rr with perhaps a figther/fighter-bomber speed increase should help restore some balance among these ships.* i'm not convinced that this is necessary in a world with dds and other super-carriers it might prove so in the fullness of time but this strikes me as a potential bridge too far that would relegate supercarriers back to the 'expensive toy' role they had for so long.*the speed increase, while appropriately themed would likely need to be thought through pretty well to make it powerful enough compared to the nyx's damage bonus and the wyvern/aeon's resist bonus while not making it possible for say, a speed hac to get near a hel and live to tell the tale."
"you, sir, are an idiot"
"this ^^"
"need to be able to war dec a player causing you grief from an npc corp."
"1 point my own post.nobody should be 'immune' to the rest of eve rules."
"sorry but there are cons to being in an npc corp. first your entire corp doesn't get kill rights for people stealing stuff and blowing you up. second you don't communicate among other members very easily. also would this be your entire corp against this one person? that would be overkill"
"if we were allowed to wd npc corps, all the pirates would be bbqing noobs and freighter pilots all day. noobs need a safe haven to leanr how to play the game, if their bot corp gets decced, well picture this.*game instalment complete**sign in*undock*boom*emoragequitcongrats, you have just driven yet another player away form the game, i hope you enjoy your epic kill board filled with velator kills and your now sizable epeen, have a nice day"
"htfu"
"i cannot support this as well."
"no.requesting to change play style that you personally don't like/use is selfish."
"yes, on the conditions that it fits into existing eve mechanics/lore. which means two things:-dec the faction npc corp belongs to: being shot by empire.-concord involvement on empire's side, as private decs against empire is not covered by treaty exception (fw).why? did you think eve's mechanics and backstory should be altered for your convenience? well, have fun."
"ok - i can see your point about new players.whats to prevent me from creating a new alt character podding you, get my standing back up fast by mission and re pod u?how about a suggestion that if you do 'illegal' activity in an npc corp - it boots you to a npc corp that is allowed to be war dec'd and doesnt let u back into the npc corp.a player that cant be hunted - cant be stopped."
"all players can be hunted in eve. that's the nature of the game. it may require you to be smarter about how you do so, but you can hunt them."
"any reason why this is limited to 50?50 really isnt much.please make so we can store more.these are really handy. instead of people running around looking at forums looking for setups they can use this tool.which is great. but its just annoying that its limited to 50.not sure on how many should be limited, but lets say at least 300."
"i don't see any use for this other than repping anchorable modules that already have too much hp. for gang warfare, it would be utterly useless and an enormous nerf to an otherwise useful ship class.i'm actually rather partial to the idea of micro triage and siege modules - eliminating movement makes for much less communication during a fleet fight.-liang"
"liang, well the 2.5minute cycle time would make it quite easy to coast in and out of triage and hope the opponent doesnt sees it.i am quite sure the op wants more repping power for the armor hac gangs, but they are powerful enough as is.no need to buff them more."
"actually the negative effects that were created were explicitly to prevent the armor hac gang buff. i do however want to create an inroad to removing rr bonuses from carriers that do not triage."
"why are rr bonuses on logistic orientated ships like carriers bad? so you want every carrier, that wants to give decent rr, to go into triage?that sounds a bit suicidal for many situations. this would especially fire back when you want to repair sov structures/posses/outposts. atm you got the choice to use the normal rr bonuses and rep things up (e.g. when the surrounding systems are too hot) or go all in and triage.then you would be forced to triage to get anything done. sounds useful? not really."
"ok, obviously you haven't thought through your whole statement. if logistics ships replace carriers in that role of pos repair with limited risk, why would carriers bother even trying to repair a tower out of triage. a logistics ship in triage with 4 large armor repairers with the above bonuses would do the following:4 x 384 = 1536 repair2304 x 250% = 38404.5 seconds (t2) / 2.5 = 1.83840/1.8 = 2123 repair/s or 1,280,000 hp per 10 minor with 4 medium reps, 640,000 hp per 10 minthat compared to a carrier not in triage currently with 4 repairers:1500 x 4 = 60005 second rof6000/5s = 1200 repair/s or 720,000in traige a carrier does 12,000 repair every 2.5 seconds or 4,800 repair/s which is 2,880,000 mil hp per 10 min. ie logistics do their logistical duty, but carriers become the super logistic in a battlefield setting, while also having the non logistical ability to project offense out of triage or a larger logistical ability if you desire to risk it on a tower repair. to me, sounds like a role for each, rather than letting carriers spider tank and swarm with their current massive hp. zomg a game of diversity and unique qualities rather than bigger is better... could be something to that one."
"wtb guardian that can perma run 6 lrar and still has some tank. a more realistic setup would be 4 maybe 5 lrar and some cap transfer.also your 4 crar carrier is kind of unrealistic. so if you want to do some numbers, use realistic fittings and not something artificial.and you dont increase the diversity with removing capabilities. especially since logistic cruisers and carriers serve similar but still different roles."
"you can't have bombs in high sec for a very simple reason: because you don't have lasting consequences for using them.if using a bomb in high sec and hitting non war targets had lasting effects forcing people to think and evaluate the action before doing it i would be favorable to allowing them. but the consequences should be serious, permanent (or at least requiring year of game time to be removed) and not easily avoidable using alts. similarly empires will be using cynodampers and defend them very well (with static defenses and active fleets way larger than what is used in fw against enemy militia). as this is a game and not a rl simulation long term consequences aren't applicable (it is a bad game mechanism and people leaving the game for good would not care about them), similarly the heavily defended cynojammers aren't applicable as players would start to cry that \"the game is unbalanced, we can't easily kill the npc cynojammers\". so the limitations are necessary to keep the game viable."
"this is a bad idea on so many levels. if you want these things, there are vast regions of null sec where you can use them.you seem to want weapons of mass destruction while still hiding under concord's skirt.so in a way, concord protection also makes you 'special' so if we are to follow your logic through, then really everything should just be 0.0 right?"
"all this focus on bombing jita...if someone were to bomb jita, they'd hit a lot of innocent people. that'd be a lot of sec loss for that player.add in my idea, where negative toons can't be recycled or anything, and suddenly people will have to grind their way back to positive standings, or buy more accounts to keep playing.as for the rest, such as making the governments earn their sovereignty... i like it.sure, you could wage war on the caldari in general. but they pay concord for protection. so not only would you be trying to take down a station and its defenses, but the faction navy, and concord, would be shooting you in the a$$ too.and i'd love to see the repercussions when a corp or alliance suddenly has aggro against the entirety of caldari space. corpies and allies everywhere start taking fire, because one guy decided to bomb jita."
"alts and the ease of recovering sec status if you have access to a patch of 0.0 while at the same time grinding a lot of isk and the sec status hit become meaningless. the whole corp/alliance getting aggro pro 1 man action?great way to grief a corp. get a alt in with the skill to use bomb and bomb jita. instant aggro in caldari space. jc to rens and repeat.suicide and go to a clone in amarr and repeat.how much damage you can do to a corp that way?"
"yeah, i suppose it is a -bit- drastic.but my point is, allowing players to use ships and modules, with the usual repercussions, wouldn't be game breaking.- someone lights a cyno in jita, not a crime.- someone jumps in a titan, not a crime.- someone uses targeted dd on war target, while extreme overkill, still not a crime.- someone regresses servers, and uses aoe dd on all traffic, concord responds to crime.the point of this thread, pure and simple, is ccp claiming there are no \"special\" items in the game, and yet instituting base code restrictions against using some items in some locations.why can't i use a smartbomb within reach of a gate? because i'd be damaging public property and enraging the local authorities? nope, because the game said so."
"so also , allow claiming sovernity and moon mining in w-space. i want to set up an outpost and build a titan there."
"but there's a difference between gameplay restrictions, like capitals in highsec, and things to protect people from themselves, which was not being able to move plex. there was really no reason not to move plex, but there are reasons not to be able to doomsday a freighter outside of jita.i wouldn't be so against being able to move caps through highsec, but i don't like the idea of them using capital weapons or modules (carrier repping, dreads pos bashing in highsec)."
"if someone wants to lose a 55b isk ship to concord for a freighter kill and to watch the gannets scoop all the cargo before his alt does , what exactly is the problem ?eve is supposed to be a sand-box.at least thats what the devs keep telling us.but it isnt because it has lots of special restrictions.its just that a lot of game features are coded in a cheap way with ( you cant activate that module here ) type restrictions.these types of restirctions should be a last resort if nothing else is possible.cyno's for example.cyno's should be activatable in high sec.if its a crime and you get concordokken for it fair enough but \"blah blah blah i'm not programmed to activate here because of the jita treaty of 21342\" or whatever the message is , is just cheap nasty easiest fit solution."
"well there is an esy fix for this that would take all of 3 minutes to fix. change the \"jita treaty of 21342\" fluff to \"this system is cyno-jammed.\" all i see in this thread is, \" i'm scared to use all these things in 0.0 cause the big mean 0.0 players will kill me, so can i please use this stuff on noobs in empire please?\""
"sensor booster works against sensor dumping + increase targeting range or targeting speedtc and te work against turret disrupting + increase turret range and tracking speedeccm module works against ecm (on random basis) + does nothing more.my proposal is to increase eccm bonus (150%) or add some useful feature to use when eccm is not against ecm."
"did you notice that sensor damps and tracking enhancer really affect 2 attributes each, while ecm vs eccm is just based on one stat?and if being able to lock something is not enough benefit for you ... then i dont know."
"i also got a prosposal. erase ecm and eccm out of this game. it simply works against pvp, especially in small scale. give caldari completly different e-war. something like a tracking dispruptor, just vs. missiles. make ecm an antimissile system. get rid of this terrible knockout system we have now."
"eccm make unscannables."
"fyp. but you are right. there is the 2nd effect of eccm. ^^"
"ban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"due to severe trolling, i support this threadban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"yes yes yes"
"ban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"ban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"ban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"ban cromo threadsupport linked thread plz"
"delilah,i don't really consider griefing to be much of an issue in game's like eve, i have never felt griefed in such games and that includes the likes of shadowbane and darkfall. specifically targeted and hassled yes, but if it remains within the context of the game i just don't consider it griefing. people that take things beyond the legitimate context of the game such as cheating or trying to harm people outside of the game in the real world is another matter, but those things are already sanctioned by terms of service and rl laws.venkul and his like are not making an important point about the diversity of eve. what he is doing is trying to justify themepark type game play as if it's some legitimate playstyle that should be catered to in a sandbox type game. he claims to be interested in the market and industry, well none of my ideas would stop those legitimate activities, yet he still strongly objects, and laments the evils of pirates (for which he seems to have a serious grudge). high sec would still be the principle market of eve and a sound place to engage in industry outside of capital ship building and drug manufacture. it's isk faucets like missions that i have a problem with being in high sec, not trade and industry. i specifically object to combat missions on the basis that one: it creates a risk imbalance vs nullsec and lowsec, and two: that it makes no sense in context of the game's lore and other mechanics (reds not being able to operate in high sec). lastly, no other sandbox mmo that also claimed to be a pvp orientated game has this sort of dynamic of safe zones to pve in, it would be like shadowbane or darkfall moving half their mobs inside the npc cities, which is just bizarre.in a game like eve there shouldn't be any strictly pve without pvp factoring in to some degree as well. pve already factors into all pvp activities. the very idea that we have pve over here in this portion of the game, and pvp over there and the two don't directly mix, is by its very nature a themepark game concept harking back to the infamous changes in uo, through to eq, wow and beyond. if we don't agree on this delilah we're not nearly as close in positions as you seem to think.pull, push, buff, nerf, it all amounts to the same thing when your playing a game where everything is supposed to effect everything else. it's like those posts people make about ship balance.. \"oh you should buff these weak ships, rather than nerf these op ships, it would be so much better\" power is relative, so in the end it's pretty much the same same thing. low sec doesn't need a boost, the whole dynamics of the game needs a complete work over, the problems with low sec are a symptom of the real illness infecting the game as a whole. to get a cure, you don't treat the symptoms, you treat the illness.as to your specific question about me, since recently returning to eve i do not spend time in low sec other than passing through, i see little point in being there, i split my time between nullsec (mostly npc controlled) and high sec.oh and while we might not agree, nothing you have posted in this thread thus far is trollish as was suggested above, and your posts make for far more interesting reading than the majority of trash that fills these forums, so go ahead and write that essay :p"
"that would be very helpful"
"so much bump worthiness"
"sorry,but ccp i just want a backlog bug dev blog !do you read the forums or will you moderate all our quality request if not in line with your marketing plan ?yeay"
"+1 supported."
"i for one love eve, but i have to agree with absolutely everything the op posted. if i wanted a hundred crappy flash games, there's websites offering that up for free. i'd rather have good, polished gameplay over a hundred of half baked ideas that offer no real strategy or thrill.\"but we can't make a good marketing message from polishing old stuff!\"but you can.i follow eve on facebook, chat it up with my friends, explain what it is and isn't to folks in the market to buy it, that aren't quite sure of it. a satisfied customer that would recommend your product is the best marketing you can buy. period. so we, the customers, are your salesforce. give us something good to sell.thanks,dzil/signed"
"i've heard rumors that they dont intend to revisit wormhole space for at least 18 more months.shiny shiny shiny ooooooo"
"wormhole space could use a little love"
"suproted"
"supporting"
"every single point raised is valid and greatly enhances the experience any player could have with courier contracts. and the effort for implementing these changes is minimal."
"sorry but i have to say no."
"1.0"
"had to google futanari.....god no! wtf is wrong with you?"
"as my main is gallente....funniest thread evar (even from you), at work everybody thought i<U+FFFD>d go nuts.i also had to google futanari. please, don<U+FFFD>t let my exotic dancers have d***s. only amarr dancers should have futa (as they would wear dresses anyway).i<U+FFFD>m sad, but i cannot support this.fake edit: my native tongue is german, and everybody speaking german will know why i can<U+FFFD>t stop loughing, not even after minutes..."
"mission accomplished."
"supported"
"firstly, let me say fully supported.secondly, i feel this may also spur the sale of cheap keyboards. good or bad, doesn't matter, just safapyin'...on a slightly more serious note though, this sort of content may be pushing it a bit far (note: i fully support this). however, having at some some sort of additional humor / suggestivity would not be a bad thing. this game is an adults game, it takes thought, patients and creativity to play it well and be able to enjoy it.to an extent, this sort of content already exists in game (see: minmatar outpost, those 'hubs' in missions, but should certainly be added to. the legal ramifications to this are huge - i highly doubt ccp would legally be able to do this (certainly not in the states because our country is rather fail), but probably elsewhere. i think that the way around this would be to give the game an m rating, which is totally doable, but keep in mind that that would significantly decrease the sales of the game (it's just a fact, look at trends). the next issue would be dealing with the existing <18 year olds - how would this be dealt with? - if the age on the account (you needed to put your age in when you registered) is <18, no adult content shown- if age >18, make it an option (settings, even put a pw on it)again though, this would roll right back to ccp sales... and ultimately, like anything, it's about money. in that case, pay for the 'adult' upgrade if you meet certain conditions? :p++ for this, ccp, add in futanari. do it, damnit :)"
"yes. in terms of keeping to the story line, this needs to be added in. maybe not to the extreme of your original proposal, but certainly some exposure (see european / eastern advertising [i have photo proof of public nudity in advertising being totally acceptable]).so, realistic? yes.should it be implemented? yesshould it be downright **** / fapable anime [see: virtuagirl]? no."
"product and/or service supported"
"fix rails"
"fix pls!"
"as an active pveer i can confirm that railguns suck./supported"
"bump & +1"
"supported"
"hell yes. i have 2 chars doing a production chain in a c4 wh. thats aprox 70+ extractors. it's no fun to turn them all on every single day. the colecting and bringing them to the central procesing planet i do like eaven though that part can get me killed."
"yes! yes! a thousand times yes!"
"hello all. i've pulled together some thoughts we had in md (yeah, that place) and came up with some easy, and some not so easy new features, changes, and fixes. basically, one draw of eve is it's player-driven economy. why not highlight it and smooth out all the wrinkles?overhaul of the system through which i update orders.wallet orders section blended with the market and made more streamlined.your orders marked to indicate they are yours.out of game, ccp hosted market database that works with igb that is delayed a week (so pulling historical data wouldn't be hard, but you still need to be in game to get the latest prices.for the market history tab:configurable time-span, from 7 days to 5 yearsmanual data pruning (exclude all values above n, below m)configurable automatic data pruning (show everything inside n-sigma from the mean)deliver all option on the corporation assets tab (makes region wide buy-orders less of a click-fest), or maybe better yet, sell directly from the deliveries tab.move the cancel order button, pretty please."
"supported...especially the \"cancel order\" button...make it a confirm like a fleet kick or something! :)"
"i support this product and/or service."
"of course you support it, it's your proposal!"
"support"
"currently, there's no reason to train rockets, and furthermore, use them on assault frigates. not even for the extra mid-slots, since you would be better off in an interceptor. not even for the tank, since we know frigs are awful tankers. not even for the range, since a rail ishkur can do a lot better and with more dps. this alone, makes rocket-oriented assault frigates useless.now, this proves it, took screens and compared the vengeance (since it is a perfect example of how such an artistic eye candy is totally wasted), to other popular assault frigates dpv/dps:vengeance vs rail ishkur omg! wtf?vengeance vs retributionvengeance vs wolf, clash of the useless ships and proof of how matari owns amarrso, wake up people, we know missiles ain't designed for dps but, wtf.? i really think they need some love."
"if someone's behavior on the forums annoys you, the best way to handle it is to simply ignore them. professional trolls are desperate attention w****s; if you refuse to feed them, they will go away.from a practical perspective, first of all, if you ban a troll he'll just come back with a different alt or account; and second, where do you draw the line, and who decides who's crossed it?free speech isn't free; you pay for it by having to occasionally deal with speech you find offensive."
"freedom of speech doesn't apply in a company's private forums, and do you seriously think he will set up another subscribed account just to troll?"
"or i could make it into a big joke where we all have a laugh at his expense......oh look, that appears to be what i've done."
"i'd think this is a pretty good idea to decide where to draw the line, its clearly an issue wich means a solution has to be found."
"i would not be surprised if he did. $15 a month is cheap entertainment.seriously, if ccp thinks he's crossed the line, then they'll ban him. in the meantime, ignore him -- don't bother to ridicule him, just ignore him."
"but ridiculing and flaming is fun... \o/"
"i think its fine that some regions of 0.0 are less profitable than others. look at providence and geminate, they are ****. imo, if you want better 0.0, take it from someone else."
"supported."
"mara wins this thread."
"a good addition would be the possibility to remote stack stuff (original thread by john roe here)"
"damn, this didn't make it to the low hanging fruit ui issues list.supported!"
"got my full support. the lack of it is so annoying."
"thumb upmake it happend"
"like the say : 'in monetary system, if solution will not create a profit, the problem will not be solved.'simple.nevertheless, i am in"
"supported!"
"yep. preferably with the option to instruct the system to do this across an entire region/search of your assets, if needed."
"ah . the weekly 'stack'em' proposal. please csm, show what you're worth. such a small but important improvement."
"agreed!/signed p.s. make this available for the corp assets also!"
"yes, please!"
"yes, would be quite convenient."
"good idea imo."
"been waiting for this since forever. make it happen!"
"you can repackage items remotely. i don't see why remote stacking can't be implemented. it makes sense in the right direction.you have my full support"
"this is important and needs to be in the game"
"supported. they could also become an offensive module if loaded with red tape."
"i heard if you salvage a ragnarok, you get 2,075,625,000 kg worth of metal scraps."
"i've suggested this before as well. it's a great idea. plex are worth real money, so why can't we cash them out on other ccp products. it'd make sense, and ccp would make a bit of money they had been missing out on before"
"it would also be a good way of testing general \"closed\" economy market.selling immaterial content like pdfs of eve content, or maybe even other ccp produts like whitewolf/wod. a model like this could \"pay\" for some awesome work on making eve backstory, player manuals and similar.might even want to add services similar to apple apps store, where player created immaterial content could be traded for plex/isk, only usable for other eve/wod related content.not sure how edgy that would be to the eula as it stands, but since we are already trading player created content for isk it should be in the clear."
"i believe this is why 'reverse redeem' was originally introduced, but it never fully came to fruition. i'd be interested to see it work."
"id like that +1"
"aren't ccp shipping fees known for being more than little unreasonable? =p-l"
"plex is worth real money to us, but to ccp, it's just isk out. no cash in. publications, especially magazines, have very small profit margins because of the cost of production. you have to pay writers, designers, editors, etc. then pay for the actual cost of materials (call a local printer, ask them how much it would cost to print a book of the same dimensions/page numbers). it would be a bad business move on ccp's part, and would mean less money going towards the game itself."
"i'd disagree. plex for eon mag would mean more subscribers to the mag, from people that otherwise wouldn't shell real cash for the mag (but have plenty of isk lying around, and possibly would get a kick from seeing an irl tangible gain from their internet spaceships empire.) eon gets their money either way assuming ccp is fair with their accounting."
"i believe you should post this idea at the assembly hall. you have my support there is a proposal for allowing payment in plex for facelifts / character exchanges.combining your idea with the above makes more sense in your \"plex as payment\" proposal.ccp already charges an extra 2.5 usd/euro for each month worth of game time, so it will be basically converting $17.5 into a $15 coupon that can be traded within the market. no loss for ccp, whatsoever."
"plex = rw money is a one way transaction.when people buy plex with rw money and sell it in game, ccp makes money. people that wouldn't pay to play the game, in effect, are having someone else pay for them to play.if you could sell plex for rw money or trade it for other things of value like store items or eon mag, then ccp loses money because that is plex that won't be used to to pay for the account of someone that otherwise wouldn't pay. this is why ccp spends so much time going after out of game isk sellers.* could you imagine the black market in these things if you could swap plex for them... someone with 20 macro accounts, fully funded on plex, swaps his 100 extra plex a month for 50 copies of eon and then goes into business reselling those magazines for a price under ccp's price. 3 plex for a t-shirt, and suddenly ccp can't sell any for real money as all the macros are fighting each other to to have the largest discount. all cuts into ccp profits."
"i don't see how it's different for real life merchandices. if someone buys a merchandive with plexes, it means that somebody has already paied for the price of the product and the shipping cost by injecting plexes to the market. nope. paying subscriptions and paying for merchandices are two different markets. it's the plex itself that matters, not how it's used in terms of game play. hence the plex-blowing-up changes \"this is why ccp spends so much time going after out of game isk sellers.\"you said that for yourself.oh, by the way, what makes you think other players with plexes will buy from black market traders, who will certainly ask for real life money, no matter how much the discount rate is?edit: typo."
"it's too bad that they wouldn't distribute pdfs because the prevalence of piracy.also, if people could get eon for plex, we'd see a big increase in the isk price, as it'd be a demand shock. we also might see an increase in purchased plexs as the suppliers could get more isk for their dollars. overall, i'd think it'd be a good idea for ccp, but the people who buy plex for game time and only that won't like it too much."
"ccp's whole point is that plex is an \"in game\" item, and is treated as such. they recently made them moveable, etc. to further de-differentiate plex from other \"in game\" items. i strongly suspect that this is fueled by legal concerns.i would be incredibly surprised if they expanded the use of plex beyond being usable to purchase game-time, because then plex is being used as a currency to purchase a good (a magazine). you'd have all kinds of potential tax implications. i feel quite confident in predicting: won't happen. ever."
"they accepted plex for fanfest tickets, which theoretically had a real money value as well. not the exact same, but it seems pretty close.i'd buy plexes and trade them in for eon magazines. i haven't had any desire to spend out of game currency, but have isk to spare and it seems like everyone benefits. ccp gains more revenue, people selling plexes get more bang for their buck as prices would rise a bit, and people with lots of isk get a mag they might not otherwise get. who is the loser in this?"
"and you could add a layer more.. in regards to pdfs of say wod books, and eve books. plex or piracy? i think plex is a better choice for ccp and players.just saying this is a potentially huge market and a big step in the development of virtual currencies.to mention an example. i believe ccp by proxy now owns the rights to all the old wod books. i have a nice collection but a few holes. if the price was right, since this is a discontinued product, i would use virtual currency to buy these pdfs instead of trying to get them through secondhand or piracy. i get high quality scans, and creator gets paid indirectly.. everyone wins.oh and i know i would buy pdfs of the eon magazine if those were sold say 3 for one plex. if hooked then also the full backissue collection of the hardcopies."
"a larger gaming population doesnt even know what the eon mag is. im confident to bet my man gonads on that piece of info.so having them available for plex could certainly boost player awareness and mag purchase in-game.and yes tax implications and issues can arise out of it."
"they should just make eon available as a digital download, then id actually pay real money for it. having to actually have paper delivered to my house and taking up room is kind of immersion breaking for a scifi game set millenia in the future. its a bit pathetic in this day and age really. i will never ever subscribe to a physical copy. id subscribe immediately if it was dig download. on a pad style device it would be perfect."
"missionrunner in golem shoots at me.i return in a pew ship and demand a ransom. i get paid.i pew him anyway. he drops faction loot.i use the isk to buy plex to buy a guristas t-shirt.yes."
"short version:meta level tags on most item portraits.context menu addition: \"sort by >> meta level\"long version:you all know the little orange \"ii\" tags on tech 2 gear and green \"iii\" tags on t3. do that for everything.possible colors:meta gear would get blue tags, 0 for t1 items, 1-4 for meta gear.faction/deadspace gear would get red tags with the meta level in it, 5-13 or as high as it goes.t2 gear has orange \"ii\" tags, would be put above meta... above faction/deadspace maybe? maybe not, relatively minor detail.t3 gear has green \"iii\" tags already. it would get a higher meta than faction/deadspace, most likely.this would allow quick sorting of high meta gear from loot piles. could also apply to component items- give t2 components an orange \"x\" tag, tech 3 components a green \"x\" tag as well, for easy sorting."
"i don't think anything will really stop macros but what might limit their effect is to make mining interactive rather then passive.there has been countless ideas to improve mining and remove macros none of which ccp have really initiated. they've added \"better\" belts to exploration so active participants get higher grade ores in high-sec but that doesn't really stop the macros from doing what they are doing, or lower their impact. probably the best idea i've heard was one from a fellow corp mate and long time buddy. the idea is to keep mining exactly the same as it is now, but you have an option to \"enhance\" your yield by interacting directly with the mining process itself. he used \"tetris\" as an example of how interactive mining would work.basically the mining laser or group of lasers has an option on it to \"manual operation\", when selected you are given a window which shows the ore currently entering in the mining laser's \"capacitor\" before dumping into the cargo hold. the shapes of ore pieces are random shapes and sizes and they all come in the very center of the capacitor. if you do nothing, you actually lose efficiency then letting the computer do the sorting, (which is what happens when you don't perform manual operation.) so going into the manual mode you have to interact otherwise you're yield is less then normal mode.however. in manual mode you are given the options to move or trash the piece of ore the lasers have brought in. you'll have 10 seconds to place the ore, but you can move any ore anywhere in the capacitor or even trash pieces making room for better fitting pieces. basically you are sorting out the ore to take up the lest amount of space possible. like i said, the ore pieces are different shapes and size. once it's \"full\" it auto dumps into the cargo hold. at the end of the mining lasers cycle it dumps whatever is in the capacitor into the cargo hold. note that i said - autodump, not manual dump. i thought the same thing but my buddy made a great point, why would a macro not just go manual mode and dump into cargo every 10 seconds, they get maximum ore that way. the alternative he had was was very similar, only change was, once the capacitor gets to the amount of ore a cycle would normally produce in automatic mode, it dumps.the idea for that was, the capacitor for the group of mining lasers is more then the mining lasers produce, for example lets say a hulk with skills produces 3,000m3 of ore, well the capacitor on the same hulk is say 5,000m3. this gives the manual operation the ability to produce up to 5,000m3 per cycle. but he added more later saying that once it's full it dumps and the ore keeps coming in. this means if you're really good at sorting the ore pieces, you could get over 5,000m3 before the lasers autodump the capacitor and start again on a new cycle. so if you're lucky and got really big pieces that took up a lot of room and you hit the 5,000m3 capacity it would dump and start again.he wanted to make it so if a macro chooses \"manual operation\" and does nothing they actually lose out and it might only have 1,000m3 in the capacitor at the end of the cycle. so he thought the ore pieces would have a little generic physics like dropping decent sides rocks into a bucket. if you have the ability to real time sort the rocks going into the bucket and move current rocks in there, you'll hold a lot more rocks. if you do nothing the rocks basically fall where they fall eventually filling the bucket and any more rocks being added simply fall out of the bucket.he never proposed it on the forum because while it would make mining more fun and rewarding for the active player, without effecting the macros. the programing of this idea is significant and balancing would be very difficult, you could have an army of people performing manual mining which would crash prices as everyone is mining more, along with the current macro contribution."
"i somewhat like the idea.cause it bothers the heck outa me sitting in a roid belt and a ship warps in - and starts mining the same rocks as you do. you try to conversation them and no reply. totally tell who is a macro and who is not.i'd give it a try to see if this works."
"i'm terrible at tetris though :panother idea: manually aiming your lasers, and in a similar way to how your planetary interaction extractor rate is affected by the abundance of a material at a certain location, if you manually train your lasers on \"hot-spot\" (onboard scanner finds most, survey scanner finds better ones) on the asteroid, your yield will be higher. as the asteroids rotate you lose line-of-sight with the hot-spots and have to shift the lasers. or, you could just aim them at the centre of the roid, go afk, and get a third of the current yield.might make it more annoying, but could make it a little more challenging and require more brains to do. spice it up by having the asteroids break apart occassionally, crash into each other, whatever."
"as one who runs missions in low-sec every now and then since i live there (and used to in high-sec when i lived there) i feel i have the necessary background to propose a few improvements: 1: make missions in low-sec give payout and loyalty points equal of 0.1 sec (or 0.01 true sec). this includes missions given from high-sec agents with a destination in low-sec. this will also make several more agents in low-sec actually worth the trouble, 0.4 and 0.3 agents and such are worthless due to the tiny increase in rewards compared to 0.5. 2: more agents spread around low-sec, just a few hubs is too little! suggesting most placed in places not used very much in order to spread people more out, as well as making new areas to populate and thus also force pirates to move around more. every constellation in low-sec should imo have lvl 1 to lvl 4 agents. 3. more lvl 5 agents, there are far to few options of where to run them, just a minor increase needed. also spread them out, caldari and minmatar have several packed into a single constellation. 4. idea by slimy worm: low-sec (and 0.0) have a higher bounty pool to choose from to reflect a stronger pirate presence and also give more of a reward for the pvp risk. (example: high sec: 500k bounties, low-sec: 950k bounties, 0.0: 1,2m bounties). 5. something for the future: -sub pirate factions, more of them. thukker has one system where they have low-sec lvl 4's. sister of eve the same if i recall correctly. where are mordus, the society etc? -more unique lp stores like faction warfare in low-sec, where is faction carriers/dreadnaughts or something else unique, make people want to be there. i'm in low-sec for pvp and well paid missions (well actually only if you're in 0.2 and 0.1 really which sucks) that enables me to pvp more, people go there for different reasons, last qen we saw low-sec is actually loosing population and being the 2nd lowest populated area in eve behind wormhole space. the proposals above i believe will draw more people to low-sec for different reasons. the reason i propose this is because many pvp'ers i know originally went to low-sec for the better paying agents, but after a little while got drawn into the pvp aspect of the game, that even includes several corporations as well. the problem, most of low-sec sucks, so most looking into low-sec see it's hardly worth the move from 0.5 to 0.4 and leave, the above will hopefully prevent that, and low-sec nature will eventually draft almost all into pvp sooner or later. i know low-sec needs far more than that, trust me i've lived there for soon 3 years, but you gotta start somewhere. (the next step would be 6/10 plexes in low-sec along with a few other exploration tweaks and then something for the miners). most people tend to stick around when you get them far out into 0.1-0.2, and i am therefore sure if you make all of low-sec like that, that far more people will stick around in low-sec. remember to check the support if you agree with my proposals!"
"apparently one can't support ones first post, supporting with this one then..."
"i support this. bounties for the same rat need to be higher if the rat is in null/low than if the rat is in high. that would reward people who get sent by a highsec agent to lowsec. plus, it would make rat bounties somewhat dependent on the risk to pvp, not just on the difficulty of the npc excluding player-driven factors like getting attacked in your mission."
"what about having a infrastructure upgrade which costs isk every month for a ihub to put a shield around it so that it can't be attacked by fighters or fighter bombers instead you have to bring in battleships or dreads.this will remove a role from sc's and return it to dreads, instead of sieging ihubs with impunity in a super carrier you have to use dreads."
"damn - missed this when there was still time to vote."
"i don't know if it's ever been brought up, but would love the option of doing overview settings and drone grouping in station."
"the title is pretty self explanatory. why should only ceos have the ability to receive mail when a new application is in? sometimes recruiters don't check the applications window everyday and it would be much, much better if they were sent a mail each time an application was sent, just like a ceo does.another thing this does is free up a bit more the directors, by having new recruits have to actually go through the chain of command.just another little improvement to the whole corporation roles system that i think everyone would benefit from."
"oh please no... id cry if this went through"
"yeah you bet!!!!!!"
"oh, please.make it so ccp. its so easy to do it..."
"i, for one, support my idea."
"yeah that sounds f***ing good!!!!"
"he wont leave us alone till we support it... xahara aggro...."
"please oh please do it! we won't have any peace in corp chat until then"
"the idea sucks, but to keep him quiet...."
"support it.... makes sense"
"i believe anyone with shares gets a message, executives also get messages about new members and if you read the article about corp recruitment he says that you should make your recruiters executives!"
"that's wrong, mate. i'm a recruiter and have shares and i get no mails.also, we shouldn't be obligated to make recruiters directors. recruiters are one thing, directors are another."
"galvatine, it's gonna take a lot more than a simple \"belief\" to actually validate another one of your fail proposals, seeing as how u're stating that u want low sec pirates to be excluded from being bounty heads. and u've already agreed it's not gonna be profitable or worthwhile in low sec in your previous proposal as well and that's why it failed.in case u haven't figured it out, if u really want a working bounty system, make it work outside high sec so that maybe your proposal isn't just the result of your high sec piracy whining. and if u really don't, and it's already quite obvious u don't and just wanna be even safer, either exercise your kill rights yourself by training your alt and quit wasting other ppl's time or deal with the consequences of hiding behind a carebear alt. trolling removed. zymurgist"
"this post has got nothing to do with me. hell i don't even agree with parts of it. i know it's someone proposing something that might affect you in some way though, so clearly your going to have a good old whine about it.for the benefit of those that did'nt see it first time round"
"no, i understand them. they're just crap."
"the ability to neutrally remote rep ships should be limited to 1 neutral ship. multiple neutral remote repping ships basically render all high security space war decs invalid as any corp or alliance could gather any neutrals to rep them.i understand the need for neutrals to rep each other from time to time from missions etc. however, the basic fact that any small neutral corporation can render themselves invulnerable to a sizeable fleet should be considered an interference with the basic high sec mechanics of the game. wars should be fought against those involved in the war dec and the wardec only. those wishing to take \"informal alliances\" into combat should do so in low/null sec space."
"yes neutral repping is quite annoying.simple solution would be that just like certain acts start an agression timer, repping someone would start a 15min assistance timer. during this time if the guy you helping is at war with someone so are you."
"the damage bonus is built into the fighter skill, not the ships. that would be a much harder fix. fighters hit smaller ships quite well actually. there are ways to fight around it, but not many. another way of solving the problem is to change the skill of motherships to 3 fighterbombers per level, but only 1 fighter per level. ie they do carrier dps with fighters, but still insane dps with bombers.if you gave the hel the said bonus, all motherships could still fit upwards of 40-60 mil ehp tanks fully bonused. do the math, that's a lot of frickin hitpoints. with their super high resistances due to officer gear fittings, most motherships can tank about 40-50k dps a second per triage carrier, meaning it takes about 20-25 seconds to add another mil hp per triage carrier."
"i like the idea of a dedicated bay for fighters/bombers, but i strongly dislike the idea of such a small drone bay and limiting the number of drones they can field in that way. the reason everyone's migrating to motherships is because:- they're pretty cheap.- they put out omgwtfbbq dps to absolutely everything. this by itself completely destroys the utility of every regular capital.- they're ewar immune. this means you can't jam their point off, and unless you happen to have a pretty enormous number of hics on titan bridge standby you aren't gonna kill it.i didn't want a hel anyway. also:5) remove ewar immunity in low sec from all supercapitals.6) unable to deploy/use any \"special\" supercapital weapon in low sec. titan bridges are special weapons.take your \"0.0 sov tools\" back to 0.0 where they belong, dammit. just sayin.-liang"
"waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhwaaahhhhhhhhhhhwwwwwwwwwwwaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhthis is what i took from it. stop crying! and never post again."
"terrible idea!also, grow a set and use your main!"
"so, you want supercarriers to be able to be destroyed by a 10 man gang? lol, ok.1) oh great. so why don't you also go ahead and remove passive shield regen so a single sabre can pop a sc? great idea.2) i agree to the point that any sc deployed should have a large enough support fleet behind it, but to the point that you want it to be completely defenseless against any subcap fleet, no matter how big, is just mind blowing.3)\"(...)completely removes the need for a carrier(...)\". oh most definitely. if i recall, ccp already took care of that concern: they took the ability to triage out of scs. oh, and good luck deploying scs without triage support.4) ok, i rest my case. so, it's not enough that they have to be defenseless, they also have to be paper thin. essentially, the ship you're looking for is a dreadnought. let me explain: they are defenseless against subcaps, they're paper thin and can only hit capital ships. might aswell go ahead and lower the price of scs to about 3 bil, right?needless to say you get no support from me."
"seriously, the idiocy behind every one of these statements is mindblowing. i would respond to each one normally, but they're so pathetically horrible that it's self explanatory what my responses would be."
"i'm down: see xahara's post. please, think your ideas out before you post them. sc's are super-capitals. i agree that having a bigger tank than a titan (see: aeon) and a bit broken, but what you're proposing is just silly. xahara - yes (but a bit rude)ccp: sc's fit their role now, but i also agree that their rep bonus is rediculous. ccp: please re-introduce the mothership as a new ship class. this would be worthwhile, especially since titan's are all too common now (sorry for the hijack).edit: possable cromo effect alt? :p"
"no, xahara took his comments to such an extreem that it made motherships look worthless.fighter bombers do massive damage. they hurt battleships, and they dominate other capitals. adding in a drone bay of 500 gives any mothership the capability of launching 1 fully bay of heavy drones, or 5 full waves of light drones. that's a ****load of drones. if a mothership is in crisis mode where it requires more than 1 full rack of heavy drones to get out of it, then the use of heavy drones should not dictate the fight anyways.... that's just a terrible pilot. the hp redux is marginal. all it really does is put motherships more in line with titans on hp. where the nyx would suffer more at the expense of more damage. for their cost, they shouldn't get equal or better hp than titans anyways. like i said before, they can still tank a **** load of dd, which seems to be the fear. as for remote repair. every 1 remote repair in a moms tank platform adds about 4500 tank/s from and unjamable system of ships. most motherships run 2 or 9000 hp of tank added every second. that means for every additional mothership beyond 1, you would need about 15 typical fleet rr bs to outdamage their tank system, or 2 dreads to match it. that might sound fine, but when you think about the amount of hp they have, and the amount of damage they do, that doesn't scale at all. all your doing is breaking the tank... not killing the ship... when your talking 30-60 mil ehp, that's a lot of time or firepower beyond breaking the tank needed. 15 bs are dead in about 3-4 minutes from 2 motherships, and it's about the same for dreads. all removing the rr of mom's does is add a vulnerabilty that carriers, which are jamable, actually have to fill the void on. they still have a massive hp buffer. w/o any repair, with the new stats, it would still take about 13 dreads a full 10 minute cycle of unrepaired damage w/o dieing (lol against motherships not going to happen) just to kill 1 nyx (the default weakest tank). how in gods name is that unfair? that's a reasonable statistic. and god for ****ing bid a mom should ever fit a local repairer or 2 ever again... as for xahara's totally defenseless remark. i mean, wtf would ccp be thinking asking a ship to maybe actively tank something."
"the whole purpose of an sc is to be its' own fleet. the name of the shipclass says it all - super carrier - it should be it's own fleet. this means 20+ drones/fighters/what ever. this also implies a massive drone bay, which it has. it fits its' own role, quite well. regardless of wether you use fb's or fighters against a battle ship - it's doomed. fighters usually do more damage to a bs anyway (unless you target paint it). i do agree to some extent. having a tank as large as a titans is a bit broken, but as a massive dps ship that is its' own fleet, it should have a massive tank. the role i agree should be re-evaluated, but for it's price tag, it should have a tank similar (not bigger or equal, but similar) to a titans. keep in mind that it can not fit dd's or jpg's - that alone makes the difference worth while, cost wise. a carrier in triage is immune to jamming... as xahara said: gl successfully deplying sc's without carrier support... (titan's too for that matter)"
"what do you expect to counter 20 supercarriers?-liang"
"my propasal is to reward everyone that plays the game by wanting to speed up learning by creating temporary implants that would speed up learning by 1 to 10 % for a limited skill point amount. one creating a separate special implant slot only for these implants, have them npc sold and restrict the number each account can have till they are used up,"
"not supported.while i am (slowly) coming around to the idea that learning skills are borked and could be done away with, these implants will become just as mandatory if you plan to keep up with the joneses."
"not supported. we already have implants to speed up learning."
"i would like it if players could construct arenas. it would add something to industry. they could have sentry guns fire on anyone that tried to \"interupt\" the match in question or add ecm towers. these things would make it more expensive and it would add to industry. i wouldn't even care if they were only allowed in low or null sec. certain alliances/corps could buy the arena and have tournaemnts for profit or publicity. let the players run the show and i think the arena idea is great. i do agree witth the op that casual player need better access to pvp."
"note: this is not world of warcrack. this is eve - where ships cost time to fly, and brains to stay alive. (put that in your pipe and smoke it)"
"+1auto-targeter + lock all wrecks script for salvagers is a brilliant idea, and it comes with the tradeoff that they have one less highslot for a salvager module."
"as long as the auto targeter actually works and automatically locks the correct targets i'd love to see this improvement."
"shouldn't fleet members immediately return a 100% signal strength right away, seeing as you can warp to them?"
"it would be interesting, if we could set the sig id for our ships.kinda like a registry number, to go along with the ship name."
"your making this harder than it is.step 1: change the ship names to something agreed upon by the fleet.step 2: have everyone meet up in the same area away from traffic zones. (such as a moon or planet)step 3: have a probing ship drop a combat probe and leave it at that area (at the fleet) at minimum range.step 4: scan and note the sigs.step 5: ???step 6: profit!"
"this works fairly well. there's really no need for the change the op is suggesting."
"currently the only people able to issue warp commands are the people in the various commander positions, while the boss can assign those positions, they can't warp the fleet on their own.this results in the rather ridiculous situation of having the actual fc (the person, not the position), occupying the fleet commander slot in fleet despite rarely, if ever having the leadership skills to be able to provide bonuses for those below him.this causes problems when you want to start using command ships in the fleet positions because it means the fc has to give up his ability to warp the fleet in order to get the bonuses working.i see no reason why the boss shouldn't be allowed to do fleet warps without having to swap himself in and out of the fleet commander spot."
"hear hear.i would even go as far as separating the warping from the all the leadership positions, and being able to assign fleet/wing/squad warp roles to anyone, from zero up to all the members of the respective unit. sometimes you have more than one fc, sometimes you don't want incompetent people who are wcs because of their trained skills to warp half of your fleet away."
"you can assign fleet/wing/squad booster to each member of the respective unit. the fc of the fleet doesnt need to be the fleet booster.just a thought."
"but the fc still has to have the fleet command skill trained to be able to pass on the bonuses of the booster."
"the loot tables for the exploration sites (if only the highsec magnetometric ones) really need to have a look at by the pve team to make sure they're still giving the same balance of reward as they originally intended when they first came out.i disagree with the bit on empty cans, like elenor said, it's chance based: you have the chance of getting nothing, or the chance of getting only positron cords/auxiliary parts, or getting 2 decryptors worth 7m each from a single can.what would be interesting is whether the loot drop is calculated per can, or per site, then distributed amongst the cans. maybe someone who studied probability/statistics could explain how doing them either way would change the percentage chance of drops.but all in all, exploration isn't supposed to be a steady stream of income, it's supposed to be lots of coal with the occasional diamond that balances everything out in the long run.more sites would be nice too :d i wonder how often they increase the amount of sites spawned versus the population growth.edit:it would be interesting if they could distribute exploration sites so that the lower a constellation's population, the more sites spawn there. don't you just love exploring the unknown hiddens depths of space... right in the middle of the forge? :d (yes this is a stealth boost to highsec islands!)"
"supported, but 1-man corps that share the same channel should replace non-noob npc corps."
"and make it so you can add custom tags like \"sniper\" or \"dps close range\""
"i did actually screw up the math because it should have been 4, not 6. 1 slot for triage mod, 1 slot for cap transfer. but the math is very strong still and i'll fix it shortly. carriers repairing towers regularly use 3-4 repair modules, which was the comparison to refute your complaint. in combat, of course they do not, it's typically 2."
"there was an eva jobse that ran on a third party ticket in her homeland. it is possible she's moved onto politics in real life."
"that's her yes, busy gal."
"hell,may i please ask about a date yet ?shortly means ?what's the point that stop the publication right now ?ccp don't want to tell anything about bug resolution. i hope csm will give us some information.ccp, stop flashing us with pseudo lag dev blog please. give us a backlog dev blog.29 it's sunday and not yet any feed-back from the previous csm.regards,yeay"
"i am currently writing (and rewriting... and re-rewriting) a csm devblog (csmblog?) that gives some details about what happened during the release planning meetings.the reason it is taking so long is that we've been working with ccp in order to provide as much information as possible while still staying inside their comfort zone. that should be finished today.then after i finalize the blog posting (this weekend?) it will have to be reviewed by ccp and published. hopefully this time next week, though we will push for it to be expedited.we know everyone wants to know what we think you ought to know. and we think you ought to know what we know. and ccp thinks they want you to know what the csm thinks you ought to know.in fact, part of the reason for the delay is that we keep getting updates that go \"you know, you might want to let the players know that...\""
"i kind of like the bounty idea."
"i've been reading this thread with great interest and would just like to say congrats on both sides for keeping the thread relative clean :)as somebody who has been actively for the past 4 - 5 months i will admit that i have only gone thought low-sec to get to a destination, other then that i have never felt the need to go there.i agree that people need to be encourage to get out of high sec and go to low sec but for that to happen then the rewards will have to be worth it.i would be quite happy to see all lvl3 and lvl4 mission moved to low sec. this i would believe allow new players time to learn about eve and earn sufficient isk doing lvl1 and lvl2 missions as well complexes, exploration sites etc.. in high sec before moving on.in regards to complexes, exploration sites i would leave these available in high sec but lower the rewards, they would be more training then anything, increase the awards for them in low sec, and again for null-sec.by moving level 3 and level 4 mission to low sec then you will get an influx of players, of course this means that there are more targets for pirates, however i would hope that you would then get corps taking over low sec areas and then providing protection (for a price of course) for players who wish to go there.as somebody has already mentioned, similar to how mafia works if you will.for me high sec should be an area where people can earn a respectful amount of isk, have access to the markets, learn the basics mechanics of the game such as mining, low level complexes, low level exploration sites etc etc..."
"you see the \"mission runners will band up and defend the system\" don't work for several reasons, to cite 2 of the most basic:1) pve and pvp set up are very different. 2) unless you are willing to rapidly get a negative standing you can't pro-actively kill the pirates (most of them are smart enough not to get to -5 or less standing).this mean that generally the defender will not be capable to kill the pirate at the gates and will not be capable to secure the system and even a \"secured\" system gates can be bypassed easily enough by jumpclones or cynos. what this will mean:- a \"mission runners defense force\" will be potentially capable of running off some pvpers but will be incapable to kill them as they will miss the basic tools: warp scramblers/disruptors and webs, and generally the pvpers will have already scored 1 or more kills before retreating;- doing missions in a pve capable ship will heavily reduce earning potential (try doing a mission in a drake with a pvp fit or a blaster meghatron);- having a core of \"pvp ready\" players always present in system will lower again earning potential as you will need to give them something for the work they do;- switching to pvp ships when someone doubtful enter the system will again reduce your earning potential and probably will not be fast enough to avoid 1 or 2 mission runners kills (smart pvpers would have 1 alt scanning the system in a cov ops and finding the targets before jumping in system);- docking/abandoning missions every time there is a probe on the directional scanner (and if they are good at it the probes can be visible for a very short time) will make almost impossible to do missions. in 0.0 you can avoid or mitigate most of those problems because you can defend the gates, in low sec you can't without becoming the pirate. an influx of player in low sec would not mitigate the problem, it will compound it. as you get more and more people in a system checking who is friend or foe or neutral bystander become more difficult.being a pirate is \"cool\", you will get plenty of them. they have always been a high percentage of low sec population, even when scanning you in a mission pocket was difficult and there was a sizable population of low sec mission runners (and they were crying that there were too few targets even then). now that it very easy if level 3+ (or 2+ as xov suggest) missions were moved to low sec you would see plenty of people flocking to low sec from 0.0 and high sec to kill the easy prey. as i already stated, to work it will require a complete redo of most of eve and leveling up the field starting a new, fresh server, something that ccp and most of the players don't want. ah, btw,if you are caught in a level 3 or level 4 missions by even 1 pirate your chances of surviving are almost 0 as the npc will gladly help him."
"a voice we have been told will never be listened to by the csms own minutes, in which ccp admits it is going to do nothing to address any of the issues with eve (apart from module lag) for at least 2 years, probably never. why bother having the csm is they accomplish nothing?"
"let's be honest and transparent about this. i don't think its plausible to assume that the csm will ever have a hand in the specific development of the game, because there are too many behind-the-scenes necessities that go into the development of a specific feature, of which the csm is not privy. they could suggest a certain feature, but due to development costs of time and other resources it wouldn't be possible. in all seriousness, the csm would clog the development queue so badly, ccp would spend years sorting it out.therefore, the only reason for the csm's existence is to provide ccp with a sounding board for player issues, however this is neither efficient nor expedient. would it not make more sense to simply conduct polls to determine the most important player issues? one could argue that few people would take the time to participate in these polls, but few people vote in csm elections now. as with most things, the squeaky wheel gets the grease.but also, ccp has development plans that are put in place months or even years before the csm or even the players ever see them. with that said, the csm trying to squeeze in their own issues is rather pointless.at the end of the day, the csm does serve a function, but its neither efficient nor expedient for its intended purpose. there are far less time consuming and expensive avenues that could achieve the same effect."
"the most in-need of review is the info warfare line, which will hopefully get addressed if/when they take a look at the long languishing gallente ewar line."
"show the wormholes some love! <3 <3 <3 still love you ccp if you don't.... just not as much"
"this op is good!"
"yes."
"amen! can we please have as many dev blog detailing fixes to content as we have gotten about lag?actually, fewer dev blogs would be okay, but more manpower and more fixes.kthx"
"actually trebor daehdoowis finishing the csm meeting minutes."
"i have to agree whole heartedly with you, even better for them is if a satisfied customer promotes eve it's free advertising, ccp win with new players who arent worried about shinny new stuff because all the stuff existing in eve is totally new to them anyway, we win because instead of loads of shinny new stuff that partially works alongside older stuff which also partially works is all brought into line and is made to work better, and if it works better everyone is happy quality improves ccp are; then, able to redirect resources to further development instead of hit and miss fixes and other pacifying ways of trying to keep folks happy. stop being so reactive ccp and be more proactive one good quality expansion per year is enough! the other release time(s) should be devoted to ensuring existing features are improved and maintained and integrated more efficiently into the game environment, so they work well not just average or ok. we evers care about eve very much, we continue to pay and play because of and despite its flaws, but that does not imply that we are prepared to or have to accept less than excellence in the features that are currently in the game environment."
"absolutely supported - especially the filter via sec status option."
"so, any new by ccp or the csm ?"
"just for the fact that this is a stellar example of how to make a proposal you get a thumbs up."
"although i had a feeling that i shouldn't, i still googled \"futanari\". only have one thing to say:man, wtf???right now i'm thinking to hire mercs to wardec op just for this... this...bah... what the hell... now where's that bandwagon?edit: if you don't know what \"futanari\" is, for the love of god and sanity - don't google it."
"so, i had to wikipedia this.and i have to say, this is exactly the kind of stuff that people are going to want incarna/secondlife in space for.if i have to spend the next 18 months wasting an entire day every time i want to put up a pos, clicking myself to rsi with pi, and dealing with a horrific industry interface that they promised to improve with quantum rise, then i definitely want some chicks with big fat wangs to distract me from the drudgery."
"funtanari would make walking in stations worth playing"
"supported"
"i have a nighthawk and am doing some low sec pvp. i fly a drake for pvp and use the nighthawk as an uber l4 mission runner. the reason for this is i can't fly a vulture and i cannot get a viable pvp fit. i either can fit for some dps/tank without a gang link or point, or i have to forego dps with pg modules (8 days required still to use reactor iis ) to try and keep some tank.now i won't say that either of these are perfect setups (just some quick eft tests)[vulture, gang boosting w/mwd]damage control iipower diagnostic system iipower diagnostic system iipower diagnostic system iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivelarge shield extender iimedium shield booster iiphoton scattering field iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iisiege warfare link - active shieldingsiege warfare link - shield harmonizingsiege warfare link - shield efficiencyheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missilemedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender ihobgoblin ii x5[nighthawk, ground up pvp all l5]damage control iireactor control unit iipower diagnostic system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdriveinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iiinvulnerability field iilarge shield extender iisiege warfare link - shield harmonizingheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missilemedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender ihobgoblin ii x5while the dps on the vulture is pretty low, it has a lot of shields (buffer) and can rep back up. the tank becomes much more once you apply boosting. the net result is a very limited benefit in using the nighthawk over a drake, while the vulture imho is better in a small gang as it has a better chance of tanking if called primary while your fleet start killing the other sides ships...now if i use this setup (with boosting and all l5)[drake, fleet boosting pvp]damage control iico-processor iipower diagnostic system iireactor control unit iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivelarge shield extender iilarge shield extender iisiege warfare link - shield harmonizingheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missilemedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender imedium core defence field extender ihobgoblin ii x5i get less dps, but more ehp and a much cheaper outlay due to ship costsomething is definately not right here..."
"i fully support removing learning skills from the game, so new players can more quickly get at more content.i have no problem if new players get some 'free' stuff.i like the idea of having my skill points re-imbursed, but i won't lose sleep over it."
"yes.i see no real down side for old players, and the boost would be a nice boost to the new players."
"but but but but but..."
"i happen to agree with you. the concept of forcing people into dangerous situations will never work. low sec needs holistic changes that will provide compelling reasons for more people to go (or better yet live) and profit there. i think some forms of risk mitigation are reasonable to consider for pve'ers and industrialists, especially for certain deadspace activities. however, in the bigger picture what i hope for is content based on the outlaw nature of low sec that drives unique opportunities which don't exist elsewhere and which work in the context of outlaw-style conflicts--or are even part and parcel of them. those kinds of changes should reward the adventurous, smart, opportunistic carebear or industrialist who is willing to play the game...you know--forging relationships, making deals, paying attention--all the things related to the people side of things. i know quite a few who do this now, actually, and they do pretty well in low sec. imho, any low sec revitalization should never cater to players just looking for lazy isk--let them afk their missions in high sec. all these concepts represent a difficult game design challenge but if it was successfully done, i bet we'd end up with a truly dynamic and fascinating section of the sandbox to play in. it would make low sec awesome."
"i too am dissapointed the csm has done pretty much nothing about low-sec. for a very simple low-sec change, i have this:"
"he would also need to pay the...what?...$20 activation fee? $35 is a lot to pay to troll for a month on internet forums until you get banned again."
"this"
"supported."
"supported.the reason:unreasonable mass of spammthreads with no real efforts of thinking or changing ideas behind them. no overwork or even looking back at said threads to change the ideas or fresh them up with new ways of thinking / explantation but rather to troll.outspamming far more reasonable threads that have a lot more effort put into them."
"supported."
"supported"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.impossibru!"
"+1 from meedit: forgot to check support"
"no. this is possibly the stupidist idea i've ever heard of. why would we want something that allows remote stacking of items?! it like you're trying to say this game should be logical or something.[/sarcasm]"
"this will inevitably open a door to those *schurkes* armed with plenty of experience and knowledge in court at biting off chunks of meet from someone's chest with a massive flood of blood. ccp, with that much of relatively tiny profit and annual sales, will go down without even having a chance to scream for sure.it won't happen...cuz gamerz r all boneheads? hmmm....let's say i'm a guy who's just lost 740 plexes in a kestal @ jita 4-4. knowing plex can be cashed out like op suggested, what are my chances to say \"nah\" to a lawyer persuading me to drag ccp into a court?probably very slight, and it will inevitably happen. i strongly hope ccp is that naive so i can ..."
"\"eon magazine sold for plex\" ... your title implied to me that eon is already being distributed for plex when that isn't the case. maybe you should emphasise in the title that this is an idea, not an existing situation."
"definitely agree, both for market browsing and hangar sorting"
"not blue, that's officer. maybe orange / yellow?purple should be deadspace.otherwise, yes, i agree fully. i do how ever feel that this could cause some sort of imbalance... if there all of a sudden wasnt any low meta stuff, what would the newbs do? this would remove the 'actually having to sort element' and breed further lazyness (and remove memorization of game info). just my .02"
"tags are good."
"idk about the colors, that's certainly open to debate and tuning. there isn't any current tag on deadspace (officer) gear though ingame. killboards don't count. :pwhy wouldn't there be any low meta stuff though? this just simplifies sorting, it doesn't affect gear drop rates or selling patterns at all. that and sorting through loot boxes isn't terribly fun. this is a game, and imo has enough planning/sorting in it already."
"yes to all"
"i would like to draft a proposal with the assistance / support of a representative of csm to submit a proposal regarding the matter of sovereignty in wormhole space.wormhole space is not unique in its technical design to that of any 0.0 space other than graphical interfaces its pretty much the same. yet, whole space is not afforded any of the benefits of 0.0 and in fact are very much excluded. if players / alliances living in whole want to fully develop their pos's / strongholds it would be beneficial to all that such alliances can achieve sovereignty like any other in 0.0. it seems that this would be a natural development of whole, just like ccp did with 0.0 sovereignty. it would be helpful to get in detail from ccp what, if any, objection there is to this as personaly i cannot see any benefit in denying sovereignty to an alliance dominant in in ths sector of eve.thankyou in advance for yoru consideration with respect to the above.delta2003"
"you got lots of advantages compared to normal 0.0, e.g. no cap hotdrops, the big 0.0 alliances cant just drop a cap fleet into your system to wipe your posses and then leave again.not supported. one of the nice things about wh space is the lack of the sov warfare."
"have you not heard of mass restrictions? at the hole. you cannot just hotdrop a capfleet into a whole, for various reasons. mass restrictions being one of many... sorry but please read up about whole space. thankyou for your post anyway."
"you want to read it again: i said one of your advantage in wormhole space is that you cant get many caps dropped onto you. ;)"
"darius. im trying to see your rationale and argument against as i should on a debate, and respect such. however, how does a tcu change those components that exist already with the benefits you mentioned. please explain....no alliance / corp can hotdrop ( cyno ) in a fleet, you know this already. the only way for a small fleet with 1 or 2 carriers to get into your whome is through the hole. my proposal is for sovereignty in a system, this does not mean by default that there would be changes to access by means of hotdrop, far from it.im enjoying this debate. please continue.best regardsdelta2003"
"the reason, stated repeatedly by ccp, is that w-space was not intended to be permanently inhabited. sovereignty, by definition, involves the claiming/habitation of the space. they want mining camps and exploration outposts, not wh empires."
"no, it's way too much to have wh defensive advantage and profitability and 0.0 sovereignty benefits. maybe you want agents in your wh too?"
"so wait, lemme make sure i'm getting this.for a small maintenance fee, i could have...- uncontested sovereignty over the system. the only way to contest sov is by setting up sbu at the incoming gates, which there are none for whs.- 25% less fuel consumption for pos.- the ability to setup an infrastructure hub. the most useful benefits of which being.-- supercaps? not sure if anyone really needs these, but whatever.-- pirate detection. this results in guaranteed anomaly spawns. meaning an endless supply of sleeper tags and salvage.-- ore prospecting. this results in guaranteed belt spawns. meaning an endless supply of ore. while it's the same ores available to regular sov holders, it's better protected by the remote nature of whs, and the bored supercap pilots.-- survey network. this increases the chances of finding profession sites. meaning an increase in t3 production materials, along with sleeper loot since they're heavily guarded every time.so in short... claiming sov in a wh would guarantee endless profit for the alliance, with no way of having that taken away from them.did i miss anything?"
"support for the mere chance to build titans in wormholes."
"marcus said it well. i do not support this. wormholes are supposed to be dangerous. not hello-kittied into a brothel."
"wh space doesn't have gates. it cannot be jumped to via cyno. it does not have fixed routes to each system. if i wanted to attack your space, i would have to get lucky and find a route to your space.when was the last time your system was hit by a roaming gang? if you cannot honestly say within the last 2 hours, then your wh space has a huge benefit over 0.0. if you want sov, you need fixed routes to balance the benefits gained. if this rolls out with a module that makes those fancy sansha whs that get you to the system you want to go to, then i will support this."
"no... total waste and complete utter fail.you obviously do not understand sov mechanics like you pretend to do so.whs is disjointed and doesn't connect to any other space aside from totally randomized wormholes.what your asking for would do nothing in the end other than become an incredibly expensive venture... an to top that off... concord has no jurisdiction there... or ded i should say... because they are the ones who track sov. (pardon the role play bit).it's 0.0 because its totally new space... new frontier... not been explored... etc.ccp made it clear.... it is not the kind of space they want people to live in permanently. this keeps its fresh... and challenging.using i-hubs to \"upgrade\" said space is game breaking at that point as far as the original intent meant.but who am i kidding here.... your just wanting \"moar stuff\".so no stealth proposal for you.not supporting."
"thankyou for all your respeones and lets keep it going. i still have not seen what the disadvantages to sovereignty in whole alliance could be. i believe ccp often operate on the premise that any discourse, advantage one over the other is the right course to take as the shift of pwer promotes fair game.the more disadvantages and objections exist to a proposal ie; an adavantage by one group over another is a great way to ensure enhanced game activity and can only promote the agrieved parties to try and take over said advantaged party.living in a c5 / c6 is no gay party and is often subject to 'roaming gangs' with caps, especially when plexing the sites. plexing is no party with dps exceeding 25,000, + point + neut. then salvaging with roaming gangs. thats the dangerous part.i agree with kaisersoze434, so in other words we one of the largest whole plexing corps must remain 'super miners' for eternity and keep supplying 0.0 / empire with tech3? sooner or later we will want more than that. we wish to evolve in this game as others have and not just be tagged ' super miners ' building and supplying tech3.i appreciate all yoru commenst and please keep this going.best regards"
"the disadvantage is that it allows wh residents to truly setup space in such a way that they will not be able to be dislodged. there is supposed to be risk. risk is decreased by having sov. as i stated, you need to add other things that increase risk if you are going to decrease risk.if your proposal were to happen, 0.0 alliances would immediately take wh space as they would be invincible there."
"no.the goal should be to make w-space as different from k-space as possible.make it more hostile to permanent settlement's.make it bigger, stranger and with tons of cool easter-egg's hidden in it's deep dark corners.not supported."
"not supported for the sake of variety of options in this game."
"reference thread:"
"while i see the points you are making and they are valid. i would have to say that instead of changing the dreads i recommend to change the way scs work and in doing so make dreads relevant again."
"thx for the contributions, very good ideas"
"please make it stop please."
"while i agree with most of the proposal, this part is a bit misleading. low sec has approximately 8% of the population in 6,25% of the systems, not a bad percentage (unless i am mistaken low sec is approximately 500 system of the 8k currently present in the eve cluster). character density is already higher than 0.0 or wh space. one of the problems is if you increase low sec population in a system generally the pirate population grow faster than the \"carebear\" population, so you reach rapidly a point where non-pvp activities can't be done. i have done low level missions in deep low sec with r&d alts for months without problems, but as the standing get higher and you start to use the best agents in the mission hubs system you start to get more and more hostiles in system, to the point where going to high sec is better. so this part of your proposal: is very important.sadly it is against ccp original idea of how low sec should work. the few and easy to find mission hubs were made on purpose with the idea that they would spark conflicts and attract people. currently they seem to do the reverse."
"excellent idea, will make simply blitzing low-sec and 0.0 missions less of the only viable option, which benefits pirates as well while providing a risk vs reward choice. venkul mul: yes of course, i meant 2nd lowest behind wormholes, corrected that. people are leaving low-sec however, and most of them leaving the game if you're going to go by my adress book contacts. population density is only really being kept up by systems like tama, old man star and amamake etc, which is a single system per region basis. increasing the population in low-sec works just fine as long as you spread them out, low-sec is like pre-dominion 0.0, big blobs of people here and there and everything else empty... empty because there is nothing at all there, place good agents in every constallation and it most certainly will become used *assuming* proposal nr 1 is done as well. the mission hubs themselves are fine, the problem is you have to choose the hub, or might as well stay in 0.5. by adding lots of new agents that gives the mission runner far more places to choose from and forces the pirates to go around looking for targets rather than wait 23/7 in the same system(s) for targets. that also means there is a bigger chance they will stumble across someone interested in shooting them as well (roaming around as an outlaw, there is always people wanting to shoot me at least)."
"no.i've started to think about how many levels your suggestion is wrong on, but realized that it would take me too much time to properly post about it. let's just save time and reject this."
"as title says. pos warp disruption batteries and warp scrambling batteries should be able to prevent supercapitals from warping off/jumping out. there is already to much supercaps they need to start dying with increased rate, and this proposal is making life of supercap pilot only a bit more harder.p.s. if this proposal goes through it will be hilarious when i lose titan or supercarrier cause pos scrambled me :p"
"since when do you login supercaps ? oo there is no proof of that"
"i need to change skill from time to time."
"good idea"
"supercaps need to die in a ball of fire. also i will laugh when mm lose a supercap to there own pos"
"to many supercaps :( more should die. i will also laugh when imperian dies to his own pos"
"me supports this too !!"
"interesting idea i like it.anything that holds a sc long enough for me to get proded out of my ship spinning coma and get to the fight is good in my book"
"rather than allowing the normal pos warp scrambling/warp disrupting batteries to hold down supercaps, add a new warp disruption battery with similar attributes as the warp disruption field generator when using the focused point script. it should have higher fitting requirements than the normal warp scram/disruptor batteries."
"to complicated :p"
"to the endorsementcenter!"
"because you would need to refit your posses?or because it would follow the general rp with the ewar and supercaps?i am kinda sure it wouldnt be difficult for ccp to reuse the hull of the current warp scrambling batteries and make them into focused warp disruption batteries.if you want to tackle supercaps with a pos it shouldnt come as cheap as a simple warp scrambling/warp disruption battery."
"the simplest way to implement change is simply to change data. already included in ship design in game is the concept of \"role bonus:+2 warp strength\" currently only used in deep space transports. make two data edits and you can have the same effect. give motherships \"role bonus:+16 warp strength\" and titans \"role bonus:+128 warp strength\". this also introduces the added excitment of groups of ships being able to swarm and hold a supercarrier or titan. pos warp scramblers are currently +6 so three of them can hold a mothership. this change is so simple in the game and its impact a coding level is so trivial that the entire change cycle covering it will take less time and manpower than the discussion in this forum.later, when time permits and supercaps (read: hel) are being tweaked and titans are getting new weapons, a capital warp scrambler and captial warp disruptor and capital stasis webifyer can be introduced to the game. only usable by dreads in siege or titans."
"i can get behind this. although even solo supercaps won't be troubled by unmanned poses but it will make them think twice before bumming around on poses with active gunners."
"supportin vuk lau proposal is supportin."
"pos modules should function in the same capacity as hic focused points, which they should logically be doing anyway. i mean, a pos module is the size of a hic."
"i want it simple. there is no need to do a parallel between hics and pos batteries cause hic is a ship and pos battery is structure.i dont see one reason to implement new kind of pos warp batteries, instead of just giving current ones ability to tackle supers.thanx for support."
"whats the point, really, if wanting a pos battery to tackle a supercarrier when the dps from said supercarriers will just incap the pos module in mere moments then just jump away long before any significant force can be gathered to keep it tackled. the issue is not them being unable to be tackled by pos modules, but rather their ability to burn through the 99% hull resists with impunity. a few scs can utterly destroy (not incapacitate..destroy) multiple pos modules with incredible speed."
"1.0"
"supported!"
"1.0"
"another \"i can't believe it doesn't work this way already\" suggestionhow many years have we had this ****ty corp ui?at least we'll all be able to get haircuts in space in 18 months"
"carebear alt?? i dont have a clue who galvatine is. check my sec status in game, search battleclinic to see where most of my kills are and then maybe, just maybe rub more than two of your brain cells together and come up with a better solution or some positive feedback instead of flaming other peoples ideas."
"coming from someone who blobs low sec and carebear alts in high sec--if anyone's whining, it's u for wanting more easy ganks and more safety behind your alt. but ty for linking it yet again--were u hoping someone else would refute the last post since u couldn't? because last time i checked, u stated that if u couldn't refute a so-called \"proper\" argument, u'd close your thread. not only have u failed to close your thread, but u've also refused to reply. not much of a proposal, especially worth linking, if u affirm that your own broken idea doesn't work. 1. since u're a -10, why would u make the similar proposal that galvative did? oh that's right, u're exactly like him--u just want more safety behind your carebear alt when things aren't going your way in low sec.2. funny how u also believe that bounty hunting should not occur in low sec. that was hilarious, especially since u asked me to verify that u're -10. 3. and what is a \"better solution\" or \"positive feedback\" to u? agreement? sry if u can't feel 100% safe in the forums either. maybe if u rubbed more than two of your own brain cells together, u'd actually notice my argument of how to make it work in low sec. that is, unless u affirm that u just want more safety for yourself in high sec and low sec."
"here we go again, change the record, we all know you dont want it fixed cos it might impact your little suicide operation.at some point it will get fixed, with probably a combination of all the ideas posted.as i said before, even if the proposal was solid as a rock you would still object, end of story. your the only one complaining, does that tell you something? ofc not silly me, the world revolves around you and your game, **** anyone else."
"right now its armor tank or gtfo. it is an insanely unfair advantage armor tankers have already over shield tankers and they got this too???not to mention the fact that trimarks stack and you can slap these on for a ******ed amount of ehp. remove these from the game or introduced something for shield tankers too that is like it. also make trimarks have a stacking penalty."
"...what?"
"these people say you don't know what your talking about. (including me)---> ban cromo threadwhat makes you think you have even the sliver of a chance?stop wasting our time. you've effectively become the laughing stock of the assembly hall.why bother anymore?"
"+1again? cromo please stop making things up that are just ******ed ideas, whats the next thread, remove cloaking devices and jam covert cyno? (oh wait you already did that one)"
"5/10, you made me laugh but it was too obvious to get a higher rating"
"prove the regenerative membrane awesomeness by posting a non-fail fit in which it gives more ehp then resist mods or plates"
"i don't know anyone who actually uses them anyway, not supported."
"while i already know you are a terrible troll, but i'll be civil first and ask you politely:what makes you think that right now its armor tank or gtfo? what makes you think armour tanking gets an 'insane advantage'?"
"no, this is a silly idea."
"you're a nubbin"
"not supportet. motherships are not that strong like some ppl think in this thread. i fought myself big mothershipblobs / carrierblobs on several occasions. as white noise attacked upper branch (stella polaris sovdrop) with like 25 ms + alot support wie stopped them with like 80 battlecruisers and logistics. there was absolutly no lag in this fight and our tactic basically was to snipe all their support, bombers and fighters. after 1-2h of intense fighting we had them totally disarmed, cynoed in some dreads and killed the sovstructure they tried to defend (tcu). they couldnt do sh*t. they launched a last wave of remaining bombers and fighters, which also got sniped before even one sieged dread was in armor. all you need are some logis, a decent fc and mwds to build up some range if neccessary. our losses were minimal and mostly vs. their support ships.another story was an assault on it capital shipyards. they also fielded a very large (super)carrierfleet. local count was above 400-500. lag was heavy. i noticed the fighter/bomber swarms totally stopped to apply any dps on our bs fleet. i was primary several times and hundrets of fighters orbited my gheddon....but i nearly took no dmg. after 10 mins i was still in shields. in heavy lag you can manual cycle guns...but this obviously dont works for fighters/bombers/drones. in both fights alot motherships were fielded. in both fights they were little more than useless bricks in space, unable to be a decisive factor. dont belive stories about unsoppable mothershipblobs....if theres some decent resistance, it will be possible to stop them. if theres no resistance at all, they will dps down stations and sovstuff quickly. fair.ps: i know my english is terribad, so just stfu."
"fighters have quite a bit of trouble even hitting battleships. even a huge number of fighters won't break a decent love-chain of a dozen battleships and some logis. they aren't great at killing small ships, nor should they be. i also agree that 25% is a tad harsh. ambivalence on the last issue."
"anything to get rid of them being an invincible i win button bull**** that they are!!!!!"
"a fleet of sc's, dreads and titans? wth do you think we did when we were invaded? hmm? countered, with an equal size super-cap fleet. with our own super cap fleet, supported with triage carriers and smaller. it's called eve - not \"let's make everything fair ms. kitty\"note: if you can't roll with the large alliances, then move back to npc or lowsec."
"i was talking about in low sec. -liang"
"i am with the op to have a reasonable nerf of sc and with those the (hopefully increasing) number of willingness from alliances to commit to fights, without having superior number of the same of bigger shipclass at hand.as for the point:i think the issue is rather the ballancing of force. its best said on a thread on scraphead: as for the \"if you cant roll yada yada...\". the current number of super capitals makes it impossible for any \"new\" alliances to roll with the so called large ones. this is the mainreason we only see reprocessed alliance x with left over super capitals threatening some sovereign here or there if they see a chance.to that comes the limit of super capital production being restricted to 0.0. in other words you buy from the big alliances, funding them extra and stil expect to beat them after? if you can hold through it hats of (have we seen that in the past 2 years a single time?), but thats what made things like \"winning the isk war\" so hilarious phrases.as for your comment libra:could you link me the dev blog or statement were ccp acctualy states that sc are ment to be a fleet on their own?i mean i can see the point if i consider that you need a special skilled charackter + a big amount cynoalts :p."
"zero-sec space has, and will always, be ruled by large alliances. it should not, and never will be controlled by corporations (unless you're the goons - even they were an alliance though). super caps in lowsec for ****s is rare, unless you're in a small alliance that's trying to chew more than it thought it could bite off. titans can't dd in lowsec, sc's are just giant carriers and should be able to do everything that a carrier can. keep in mind too that only the aeon has the potential to have a bigger tank that a titan, and that's only with a titan pushing it bonuses. otherwise, they all have smaller tanks.i still agree that super carriers should not have an rr bonus, tbh i'd like to see that replaced with a drone mwd speed increase or something along those lines. i'm still quite lost as to why you think they're op'd... we use super caps quite effectively, we don't **** around with hot-drops into lowsec (a) it's dangerious and (b) it's boring. we use them, in fleet fights, against titans and other sc's. if you plan to nerf the nyx, it's build requitements must also be nerfed. as it stands, they're worth their weight in isk/minerals.build cost of a nyx is about 12.6 bil. if you drop the 18b for the hull (current going prices in my area) for a straight purchase, you're paying for protection, tower fuel etc while it's in production. as far as your statement for little rolling with the big - take a cyno-jammed system, fill it with your 'little' alliance members bs, carriers, dreads, other sc's, and rest of fleet, and **** their **** up when they jump in to you. this is the same process for protecting baby sc's in production. as far as my comment goes:now look at the bonuses super carriers get... there is no other role they can legitimately fill. they were specifically designed to ****, pillage, plunder and be their own fleet. even back in the day when mr extreme was camping lowsec by him self (sorry, include his alt damnation) in his nyx, using his 20x bouncers and fighters, it was abundantly clear that super carriers are designed for straight up damage.now, i digress back to their price tag (and i still agree that their tank is a bit large). for their price, they are exactly where they should be. my exception is the aeon - however, because it lacks any other bonus, the extra resist bonus does make up for it. bear in mind that to field an sc well, you're talking months of training time, 18b for the ship +another 10-15 for a fit (mods, implants, rigs) and then with a titan pushing you bonuses (max) you approach the titan sized tank. so, 31bil for a proper nyx, one that's damn hard to kill is about right to me."
"i'd like to make a counter-proposal, because yes super-caps are far too abundant - new ship intorduction.class: super-dreadnought? needs a better class name :srole: anti-super-capdefense: capital sized, no resist bonuses, and no giant-ass lowslot/midslot rangeoffense: 6 racial dps modsbonuses: able to use siegemod, base bonus of 175% bonus to racial cap dps mods (before sigemod).this would require a fleet to support, but would offer devestating dps on super caps. would have no drone bay, similar specs to a carrier (and something akin to skill reqs between carrier and mom [timewise])think 'destroyer' on a giant scale."
"i never said it should not be reigned by big alliances, but the current trend with super capitals which more than hugely favor longtime spaceholder (due to the ability of production and comming at the price of moongoo so without real effort from the individual player) prevents any kind of mock up from an uprising alliance. you are wrong. super capitals are used on a regular basis even by small pirate corporations to simple hit lowsec reaction tower of smaller alliances. the only reason you dont hear about that often is that those people only do \"riskfree pvp\" with not even loggig their supers in when some unscouted people are in system.also how will you get a mass to rival spaceholding alliances if you constantly put your sc on the line. seems a bit contradicting to me. could you link me the 3 last battlereports of that? could you link a single battlereport where you did not hotdrop a lone titan or mothership with a bunch of sc and titans / where you did not hotdrop a 5-10 sc with 18+? you know this would not work the same way as i do know it. there are even far bigger alliances with cap and super capfleets ready who cant even do that. not only that it takes quiet some time until you can even cynojam a system but also expecting the attacking side to allready have enough sc to hold back the aggressor just shows the old alliance recycled mentality we have nowadays. it just wont work otherwise if you dont rent and than most spaceholder even restrict super capital shipyard cause of \"funding the enemy\" chance.random quotes as on any ship, and as on most not even fitting what the player acctualy use them for. give a clear statement from ccp as requested or dont suspect it to be intended like that.let me try. even back in the days when carriers were rare and ginger magician camped gates in his lone carrier it was obvious they were designed for ****.... see were i get? thats what introducing a bigger shipclass without any acctualy ballance leads to.the same as for a carrier minus the time needed to learn triage.as for seeing the price argument, i can see a ship being of that size and effectiveness being that expensive yes, but its quiet argueable that a ship not even half the price of a titan should also be able to reach half or more of its tank.to that comes the far higher diversity of motherships. from a full row of utility highslots, over a huge number of different drones including e-war. the fighterbombers dealing massive damage to capital ships/pos structures and a row of normal fighters than can also be asigned with both being able to also do good damage to subcapital ships."
"cool concept if you anchor them in kind of deadspaces. so small scalers can build little bases in lowsec with limited ship access. means frigate sized gates, cruiser sized, bc sized, bs sized. but of cause this will come in conflict with services that only a pos can provide or even an outpost. but on the other hand this could fill in a gap for small scale players and really make lowsec more interesting. the last lowsec boost most pirates might not have noticed was pi. with planets in lowsec at around three times as profitable as hisec planets there is a lot of traffic into that. okay, lots of cheap traffic because the poor pi players usually fly that with cheaply fitted t1 haulers who do not carry anything worth mentioning with them. but still - a target is a target. and the profit is (still) tempting enough to draw people out there. so what does people move into lowsec? profit. with wh space and rich arkonor deposits in those wormholes the miners get much better roids than they can expect from pirate infested lowsec systems. they are moving less into lowsec were they only might find kernite, which is not much more worth than omber for example - without the risc.so why move into lowsec with a scattercity? i think it might be a good way to add some style. maybe find use for the last few npc goods that are still useless, like prostitutes or exotic dancers. or the pax amarrian.it's just about style. it's about roleplay. it's about pride. \"our\" city in lowsec. \"our\" base in lowsec, something like this. maybe some storage, but no processing. maybe some market funktions. maybe games. entertainment. and with dust this might even have some functions for the grunt/capsuleer communication.i am no fan of giving it pos functions like refining arrays or even production. because this is what poses are for. and with the endless falling price of pos structures - how hard is that to setup a pos anyway?but poses are \"boring\". they have very few social life. there is even no real possibility to allow \"guests\" to your structure. in eve plexes you often see structures where those entertainment ships are docked. with a pleasure hub inside or a casino. i don't know how to actually \"make money\" with them, but on the other hand it's not more \"afk\" money than moon mining anyway. if the profit downscales accordingly to the investment i see no real problem in that. i don't see one in pi either, or does anybody?i just think this could make those npc plexes go live and move away from just being npc available. i'd like to see anything that is running over npc playable over the player base in eve. this also could be a drain for the lowtech drugs that drop from missions in hisec. there are damn many lose ends in the eve industry that should be covered. like pi did cover a lot of them - which i find a great step."
"1. anchor pleasure hub.2. insert drugs and dancers.3. profit."
"this."
"thisbesides ccp intend to remove learning skills completely."
"this, the eve learning system is fine, and i don't see any reason to change it (other than new players whining that they can't have instantly what others spent weeks on)."
"not supported. we already have attribute implants from +1 to +5."
"the bounty applied to the character is a \"bounty pool\". the actual bounty is paid by having the insurance payout for the popped ship given to the bounty hunter up to the amount of isk in the bounty pool. here would be an example. pirate or griefer p ****es off carebear c. carebear c is wearing his sad pants now.carebear c puts 200 million isk bounty on pirate p. pirate p is flying a 100 million isk ship when bounty hunter b finds and pops him.pirate p's ship is insured 50% so bounty hunter b gets 50 million isk reward. bounty hunter b is wearing his happy pants.pirate p gets 0 isk. pirate p puts on his sad pants.carebear c puts on his happy pants. (for added effect have the bounty issuer be listed on the killmail and get a copy)pirate p still has 150 million isk worth of getting screwed on his head. the circle of life continues.advantages are people get paid for bounty hunting, carebears get there money's worth, there is the real possiblity of vendettas betwee players, getting a bounty is actually game affecting for a pirate, and having a friend kill you for the bounty is a isk negative proposition. it couldn't be much worse than the current system."
"edit: nvm"
"im prety sure i read a thread similar to this a while back where someone from ccp stated that they tried to impliment something like this once and the code base told them to **** off. (cant remember the exact details and dont have time to look for it now my lunch break is just coming to an end)not supported if this were to come into being then it would eventualy end up that all pvp would happen there just due to human nature ie i cant be arsed hunting for that idiot ill just go to the arena and eventualy theres no one to hunt they are all at the arena."
"im not saying having ccp create an arena is a good idea. i think it would be better if players did that and the fights would be protected by gate guns or what not that the players who build the arena would have to buy. the arena could of course be destroyed. but i do think eve definitely needs some way to bring decent pvp to players who want it quicker. there are numerous ways to do this. ccp just needs to acknowledge that warping and jumping and scanning and warping and jumping for hours in order to get blobbed in the end, is not helping the game. they can then forcus on how to make certain mechanics so people who want decent pvp action can get it more quickly."
"as long as i can scan down your arena and drop a discopoc into the middle and blow everything up, okay."
"1. not all fleets are advertised.2. i was thinking about the ability to change it on the fly. fleet compositions change, fleet locations change, for example, and an fc or boss can more quickly change the chat channel message than going back and changing the fleet adverto.3. also will help when combining fleets. a message can be put in so the new members join the proper wing or squad.again, just looking for quick, easy ways to make the whole eve experience flow.rothgr bronn,royal order of security specialists"
"then advertise it? its literally one extra click...one. extra. click....and it would take you probably less time to change a fleet advert. plus the fleet advert change is on the history tab.if you're not already in communication with the fleet you're joining with or be joined by to get correct shiptypes/wings/squads...you're just doing it wrong and no change to chat channels will change that.adding new features that are already handled easily, quickly, and imho a much better format only makes it redundant and a waste of time, not a major time saver"
"or you could have the fleet description on the top of the fleet chat channel."
"csm asked for motd in fleet, alliance and corp chats ages ago."
"that is in fact her.she is part of the pirate party, and i find that somewhat amusing considering the current situation."
"i'm pretty sure she got more votes for the csm than for the seat in parliament (in absolute numbers)."
"you"
"trebor daehdoow,thank you !that's the point with enough detail we need ithink.please make a distinct post for that point.i think all the guys/girls taht signed the quality issue thread should now know what you are doing.at the moment ccp is just giving us technicalpoints about lag but no information about baclog/quality.please advert this work more !yeay"
"i finished my second draft last night; 1600+ words.i will be gathering and incorporating comments from my fellow csms and ccp staff over the next few days.once it is in the pipeline for release and we have a release date, i'll post something more conspicuous."
"done for the \"being able to stack items remotly\""
"hi, i was wondering if it would be possible to have the font size adjustable to a larger size . i find it difficult to see the print. thank u"
"just train learning skills as everyone else did. training them improves your patience, which is vital to success in eve. if some newbies can't get past training those skills, then they are not fit to play this game. simple as that."
"i support the op completely. keep it up dv!"
"supported"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"- some kind of fuel usage for repairing (revised to make it more balanced)nanite repair paste would make a good choice for repair materials (fuel). at least for armor and structure."
"1.0"
"screw walking in stations. fix current eve then work on expansions"
"i wholeheartedly support this!!!"
"be careful with boosting missiles/rockets. guns are affected by transversal and this in a way that is weighting much more than you can destroy missile/rocket damage by speed. a rifter can speedtank a dual laser fitted punisher for example down to 10% their theoretically dps. and this is true for all gun related weapons. missiles are uneffected by one of the second most common ewar used so far - the tracking disruptor. you can't td a drake. there is nothing you can do to reduce a drake. and in my humble opinion a boost of the drake is something nobody really needs. it might be that the rockets are a bit underpowered for the standard missile. but i would strongly oppose a general missile boost. missiles have already so many advantages that make it superior in many fights. like- not stoppable by td- fireable even unter jamming/sensor dampen by f.o.f.- full damage on maximum range as well as on zero range (try that with an artillery on a moving target)- switch damagetype with full damage on the perfect \"hole\" of a tank (dps!)and many more. so just be careful. heavy missiles, heavy assault missiles, torpedos and i think even standard missiles are okayish. rockets might be a bit low but not so much as people want you believe. do not compare eft values of dps but instead effective dps in fights. and if the dps is so \"gimp\" why is the drake and the raven/navy raven the most prefered missionrunner ever?there is something wrong. i strongly reject a general missileboost. but i support that the rockets alone should have a lookover. if this lookover comes to the result \"it's okay\" i'd be a bit surprised by that but acceptable. it is a quite small adjustment but not a big hammer, i think."
"aye, got my vote :)"
"what's this for a kind of wierd comparison? nobody uses hail for autocannons, because the tracking is that %&%$<U+FFFD>% up that it is rendered completely useless. so the dps from this setup is nothing but a paper tiger. it's void. you do not have such a dps with the jag. and this supports what i've said earlier, that you should not compare crappy eft warrior numbers but effective dps in combat situations. the dps from turret guns go down by speedtank/tracking issues to lower than 50% than their original value. if you compare those two boats, then compare it under a normal setup/cirumstances. for a infighting gunboat you will have normally a distance of about 1400 meters, more or less, and a transversal speed of about 70% to 80% of their theoretical speed with afterburner. even less if it's armored. if nobody is calculating the true damage of both boats i will do it in a few days myself. i've done that before but have today sadly no time. and i'm sure the rockets will not be that bad concidered their range, their perfect match of damage type, their invulnerability to tracking disruption, jamming and sensor dampen by f.o.f.if you give numbers, please give sane comparisons so that one can work with that."
"he damn right sucks, not even fun trolling :("
"supported for silencing stupidity.seriously, if you don't understand how the game works then don't comment on what you think is wrong with it."
"let us divide stacks into smaller equal stacks. with one click, not 25 and a pocket calculator.and don't limit this to stations like the current \"split stack\" option.and a pony."
"signed"
"sign"
"i wasn't totally sold until i read thisedit: add thumbs up"
"minmatar in rust we trust!supported if you modify the schimitar to fit those modules!10/10 well done mate"
"moved on request of op from market discussions to assembly hall."
"adding in to my response since the post moved, mainly just to sign it :pi think this would increase the readership of the magazine, and the money (as far as i can tell) goes to ccp either way."
"now that this is in the assembly hall, i'll give my support as promised./signed"
"hahahahahahahahahahahahahhahahahahahahahaaaaaaaaaaahahahahaawwww"
"sov warfare is already a fat, bloated, scottish ***** with poor dental hygiene (no offense to my scottish space-faring brosefs <3)not supported"
"worm holes should be more customizable. this will get them more in line with 0.0"
"you know if cromo thinks it's a good idea, it's really not.../thread"
"nulli personally have no problem with bringing wormholes in line with null sec. in addition to sov, they should have permanent gates linking them to other worm/null systems. sleeper spawns should also be available throughout the eve universe - only baby sleepers in hi-sec.- and gas clouds should be as common as veldspar. when ccp commits to this then i will fully support this motion. nulluntil then, not supported."
"no, reasons already listed by other players. space that is always having the way in/out changing means no one can cohesively threaten you, thus you are near permanent residents and under little if any real threat.if you want to be more than advanced miners i suggest you petition for more 00, better changes to 00, a 3rd type of space you could conquer but that doesn't give you the safety of wh from other player power block/groups, or save your money and look to rent some 00 space."
"not supported.if you had sov you could build an outpost. you then would have an indestructible haven with no fuel requirements. it would be almost impossible to remove you from the wh because no-one would be able to bring the firepower to do it."
"though i would like to have an actual station in a wh, i say no to the sovereignty of it."
"it bothers me to see my machariel bigger than a thanatos and still fit inside it. make carriers 1-2kms larger moms too..."
"sure why not?"
"this is an amazing idea. right now super carriers are hot dropping lone capitals left and right. all they ****ing do is try and look for easy ganks with total immunity.they are too ***** to do a real attack so they resort to this fail cowardly attacks. a pos should be a safe place not an infestation of cloaked up cyno frigates lurking near bridges and cyno gens only revealing themselves to cyno in a super carrier to gank a capital."
"yes, supercaps need to start dying a little more often as every rich **** seems to have them now.no, just because the nc is getting ~butt hurt~ because of their pilots not checking systems for cyno alts before moving around doesn't mean something like allowing supercaps to be warp scrammed by poses should be added."
"what kind of ****ed up idea is this?just because your too lazy to check systems for cyno alts and your getting hot dropped by super capitals you want 100% safety.sorry vuk but this idea will not make up for your pilots stupidity. we all know you want the whole nc space to have every system to be cyno jammed and have jump bridges everywhere so you pilots can move in total safety.what next? covert cyno jammers too? oh wai..."
"euhm, this proposal would not result in 100% safety. if anything it will decrease the 100% safety of the attacking side, by giving defenders at least a little bit extra time to rally.right now only chance you kill hotdropping super caps on a pos is when you were baiting them. allow pos warp scrambling batteries to actually scramble them and you might just get there in time before they incapped every pos mod.more risk for supercaps = good"
"@lykouleon and trygonusi dont recall when was the last time someone i care for got ganked by supers. tbh everyone who jumps anything semivaluable blindly and get ganked fully deserve to die, so no this was not at all reason for me to bring this up (not to"
"so you have been losing caps at some pos' recently because they decide to jump before scouting the system. they got what they deserved. now you want to have a change to discourage the hot drops.no.there is many ways to avoid getting hot dropped like using a scout, having a dictor/interdictor there to make the super cap think twice. or hell, maybe a sensor boosted zealot there to insta pop the cyno frig so by the time the super cap loads he is in the middle of no where.or you could just cyno jam every system and have a jump bridge in every system so you guys never have to worry about being hot dropped and never have to take another gate again. again, in case i didn't make myself clear:players should be the scout and the deterrent, not a pos module because you want to be lazy or impatient.not supported."
"did you actually read what i wrote or you are just continuing plaguing this forums like you are plaguing caod with your bitter posts?"
"awesome idea, +1."
"typically, when i check evekill before going to bed (cuz capital losses make me sleep better), i usually chuckle maddly when i see doom. killing nc caps left and right with hot-drops.until the nc does similar, all this purposal looks like to me is a whiney post that marlona and the bad-boys of nc(dot) are hurting us, waaah waaah waaah.not trying to troll, but thats what it looks like to me (and considering the list of current supporters as well...)"
"yes, i read what you wrote. it is a bad idea.just send out a 87 alliance wide blue list mail stating for people to start scouting the pos they are about to jump their capital to.changing a game mechanic should not happen because people want to be lazy."
"i dont need more safety, i live in lowsec and anyone can shoot me.my idea is not there for my own good, its to fix a game mechanic that in its current state is flawed,i said bounty hunting should occur in low sec, just not 0.0 as 0.0 is lawless space it would just be harder to find a person who is based there, if you were on a bounty mission and chased a guy into 0.0 you would no longer get help of npc bounty office to track the target, it would be up to your own innitiative, in high sec (0.1-1.0) the bounty ofice would tell you where the target is currently located so you can track them a bit easier.by positive feedback i am suggeting you read the post analyse whats good and bad and then produce what i call \"the sh*t sandwich\"make a good point then tell them whats wrong then finish with something positive, that kind of critisicm gets results, your kind of critisism just makes you look like a ****."
"here's the thing and try to keep up: your proposal is far from rock solid, to say the least. that's why ppl objected to it and that's why u didn't reply to it--because u couldn't. do u get it or r u gonna continue your usual routine of ignoring anything u want and repeating the same exact things over and over again? of course, we all know the answer to that but oh wait, that's right--'cause ccp should be catering to only u by making high sec 100% safe so your alt can hide in it when not even your low sec blobs can cut it huh? whether it's in-game or in forums, it's u who doesn't wanna get ****ed with. 1. sure they can shoot u, they just have to choose to primary u since u also have 5+ others with u at all times.2. low sec is hardly \"policed\" space because there's no concord there, just sentry guns and sec status penalties, which does nothing to -10s, as u already know, which leads to...3. fyi, 0.1-0.4 is not high sec. 4. so u're proposing to \"fix\" this mechanic by replacing it with another broken one that gives bounty heads, especially the ones allied/alted with a 0.0 alliance, the ability to escape this mechanic? bounty head pops into the 0.0 he's blue to and what happens? the bounty hunter's time and effort was for nothing since he'll never know where his target is now or when he's coming out of 0.0/wormholes but obviously, that's what u're going for, isn't it? 5. oh i'm sry 'cause last time i checked, the list of good points is up to the original poster, since um...those r the reasons why he created the proposal in the first place?6. is pointing out the flaws in your proposal too much for u too handle? 'cause this is a forum, after all. if u want moral support to get u through this stressing ordeal, make the proposal work to the point where it's not broken by playing favorites or not being practical to utilize outside of high sec. maybe then u'll be taken more seriously as someone who truly wants to fix the bounty system, rather than just another carebear pirate who only wants to avoid risk behind a high sec alt."
"i have a problem with the extractor setup in planetary interaction. i think the best idea would be to have a right click menu on the command center of your planet that gives you the option to start all your extractors on a 30 min, 5 hour, 23 hour , or 4day cycle. i see no benefit to game play or ui by having to click through every single instalation on your planetary base. infact i find it very annoying... surely that is what a command center is for, centralising facility managementsuch a simple detail but i got 6 elite bases and not much time to play eve each day, rl is just not that generous to me anymore. allthough i'd love to do pi i have now stopped almost completely due to the time it takes to reset extractors. (not to mention the imminent rsi my index finger is gonna get lol)/me pokes ccp with a big stick >>>"
"sweet zombie jesus yes!!!we need extractor grouping. i'm currently running two accounts with all six character slots full. four are actively producing pi goods while two more are still in training. all necessary pi skills to level 4 and none at level 5. i have in total running:*edit*(another character just finished and dropped a few cc's)23 command centers23 space ports25 storage facilities185 extractors219 refineries(ccp you're more than welcome to verify these numbers)and the pi structure count keeps on increasing. adding to the fact that i have to mess with it about every five or six hours, that translates into 740 times per day that i have to click my extractors. and i've still got two more characters that have yet to lay down any cc's yet. some of us really really need extractor grouping."
"lemme check the shield modules, ooh, maybe something like an invulnerability field ii? 30% resists all across the board. as it stands shield and armor tanks are nicely balanced, with shield tanks having more resists but less actual hp and armor tanks having less resists but more actual hp."
"energized regenerative membranes?you are lucky, kid. let's better stop and nerf that damn velator and not to mention those uber civilian modules that clearly wreck all balance of power. ya can fit eight civilian autocannons on a battleship and in fact fire forever. no need of ammo or crystals. or energy. a fleet of say 2000 of that ships would nearly be invincible.that's a serious problem. i can see gankfleets of 2000 in maelstrom battleships that come and suicide gank freighters at uedama with those. and those guns are for free. madness!"
"i support banning cromo from ever speaking again. he obviously has zero understanding of the game and is talking from his rear end."
"i think it would be much more logical to simply limit the number of ships capable of neutrally remote repping in high sec to 1 ship at a time. i know it's useful if you're testing a ship out with a friend or something like that. however, the fact that a single ship can be made practically invulnerable to all dmg by just having 6 neutral remote reppers seems like an exploitative avoidance of a high sec war dec.high sec wars should be fought between the declaring corp/alliance and the receiving corp/alliance. all neutrals should be forced to stay out of it or either join or place another wardec if they wish to participate.example scenario corp to corp wardec very inexpensive yet the corporation declaring war could have a very large \"informal\" alliance of 10-15 logistics ships show up. this to me looks like a way to exploit the cost of declaring war by utilizing forces not taken into consideration when the price of the wardec was established."
"i like how a bunch of alts and no names are refuting this idea here. but on shc, all the big names of eve are coming out saying yep, there needs to be a change, let's exploit it so bad that ccp will have no choice. once again it show's the obvious disconnect this forum has for any legitimate arguments.**** sake, even seleene is posting that they're out of balance, and he's the one who implemented the idea."
"i think the pirate aspect of the game could stand to be enriched."
"i know a revamp of the ui is being worked on but could we get the current right click customizable. for instance:via the escape menu i should be allowed to remove, add and change the position of the options of what shows up. i don't want 'self destruct' or say 'rename ship'. i should be allowed to move the 'jump to' and 'bridge to' apart.maybe some background color too but you get the idea i hope. it is not a total revamp of the ui but would allow us to make it better. what do you guys think?"
"1.0"
"supported."
"signed."
"not supported. i have spent alot of time training learning skills and cybernetics 5 to train quick - train it as well if you want to train faster..."
"may i have a link to the statement please?not supported, for the reasons the above posters stated already.newbies already have a boost as well, so it servers no purpose at all."
"overall, eve has quite a customizable interface and ui. you can pretty much skew everything to your own standards and place things the way you want. colors can be edited, transparency as well. even those nasty \"reds\" can be made \"greens\" or \"purples\" if you want, on your overview.what i am proposing here is a broadening of the existing customizable ui.replace the existing static colors assigned to standings with a rgb color slider. this is to allow players greater control over their display.allow colors to be assigned to ewar states (currently, if you go into overview settings->appearance->ewar and right click on a type of ewar you have the option to assign a color to it, but it does nothing)allow color states to have a clearly assigned number priority in overview settings. example: pilot has terrible standing (priority 2 - *red color*), pilot is warp scrambling me (priority 1 - *turquoise color*) note: i believe this is already functional by moving things up or down on the list.when \"blink\" is assigned to an entity, the next lowest non-blinking color is shown when the blink fades. example: player is warp scrambling me (priority 1 - *turquoise color* - blink on), player has terrible standing (priority 2 - *red color* - blink off). a player with terrible standing, who is warp disrupting me, well show red and blink turquoise. only the highest priority blink and non blink will show. others will be negated.simple idea. already existing in-game almost. big implications in regards to users identifying events in-game."
"if you are warp scrambled and unable to warp the bar that shows your speed (by where your hp is) should turn the color that you pick to display when that happens.edit:forgot to support"
"now that's just mean"
"indeed, it sucks when honest discussions get hijacked by your trolling with a \"doctrine\" that you made up and apply to people in order to slander them. oh, and: obvious troll is obvious.9 kills, and the last was in 2009. more than a year ago."
"i will not be able to attend, my grandmother is celebrating her 80th birthday tomorrow."
"are the minutes for #6 available yet?"
"ccp is developing a new set of characters fonts for eve. we can only hope they will be readable."
"hybrid turrets is inferior now. they combine drawbacks of particle cannons and lazers, while does'nt have any advantage. hybrids must be busted, cause gallentians gunships is pretty useless nowdays."
"obviously the first step must be to get csm involved.everyone mail your griviances to them, maybe they will hear your cry if you all scream in unison"
">implying the csm actually does anything and isn't just a place for ccp to direct complaints and placate the masses"
"not supported.all good things come to those who wait.the learning skills are like pandora's box. they're here and now they can't get rid of them. additionally, with 20 pages of debate, ccp is probably questioning the legitimacy of such a decision at this point."
"that's why we have regular skills. they're a clear demonstration of time spent vs. reward, the reward being whatever the skills allow you to do. except learning skills, which:a) only widen the already-massive gap between new and old players, and frankly the playing field could use a little leveling.b) have no affect on gameplay whatsoever. it's a needless sink of ~1 month of training that slows down the already-glacial pace of the game for newbies.c) only serve to lock characters into career paths. ccp has demonstrated, with the removal of racial skill bonuses, that they want characters to have the option to go into different career paths whenever they choose; having training skills heavily invested into one area discourages players from expanding to different areas.honestly i don't see why they exist at all other than for the sake of roleplayers. i'm no longer a newbie but i could see why new players would be turned off the game because they have even more catching up to do."
"supported; mag sites are pretty worthless ... since the time that exploration was first introduced, i have done quite a lot of magneto sites and only ever got 1 bpcs and a few bits of t2 salvage. really out of balance for low sec. i always find myself thinking, if they're that uncommon, shouldn't there be something juicy inside more often when i do find them?i support this proposal here and will vote for it in tomorrow's meeting when dierdra raises it."
"can you provide more detail about what you mean by \"overhaul\" and \"streamline\" in the above two items? give some examples in the form of problem/solution, maybe?"
"i wonder how many pages we can get this to?come, lets you and me find out."
"every time the fool posts i link this thread to draw more support.granted it may not happen but the point is made... and its gonna stare him in the face each and every time. like a nasty blot."
"/signed"
"1.0"
"hasn't happened yet, go troll some more please.thread supported, booking tickets to iceland to present this to the gms myself."
"/support"
"yeah, but you see the thing here, cretin, is that what you're actually doing is spamming and that is against the forum rules. so, just go back under your rock, mr. sunglasses"
"supported for pony"
"i am not entirely sure what is being argued. currently, you shift-drag, then specify the amount you wish separated from the original stack. you want an additional function that splits the stack into two equal piles?"
"i would assume based on a statement of a number he wants to auto-divide a stack into a large number of stacks, such as 25 stacks."
"would have a few useful applications, supported."
"signed!"
"agreed, good idea. see if you can rally more support for this proposal and i'll revisit it again before the first csm meeting in september (the earliest it can qualify to be raised anyway). i suspect we'll be putting together yet another collection ui stuff like the low hanging fruit one (or possibly amending that one, depending on how csms feel about it). this would be a good candidate for that."
"of course!"
"just fyi, doubt this could work (unless ccp implemented a way to offer all store merchandise for plex in lieu of cash) because ccp does not publish e-on, mmm publishing does (although ccp might underwrite the costs of publication; i have no idea).would be kinda cool to pay for stuff from the eve store with plex though...since plex = income for ccp, so they don't lose out cuz someone somewhere had to purchase the plex in the first place for rl cash."
"edit: without the currency, i support this. but... i'd really love to hear any links to dev discussion about this, if anyone has anything. searching through this thread now. i'd suggest contacting the people that didn't support due to currency in-game and rounding up support."
"removed the portion of the op that related to currency proposal due to lack of support. please consider this only related to the removal of highsec highways between empires.aubps. need to disclose a bias built into varo jan's position throughout this thread. after the main discussion took place, it was later discovered that varo is setting up a franchise business across all empires (a pos / research franchise). removal of the highsec highways would severely limit his ability to accomplish this. thus, consider his arguments on that basis."
"couldn't 'people' just cyno crap in? and by people i mean a select few just like the select few who who will/can afford an armada to protect their trade convoy. secondly yeah it pretty much would just create more ganking and pirating for lowsec."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i support this message, however i fear it will not be done for hardware reasons on client side where they lag down a players machine.then again they could do a small increase to caps but decrese the size down the chain?"
"i don't think this is necessary, supercaps are dieing quite often. if there's a problem with supercap numbers, try pushing something that makes them harder to build. like requiring an upgrade to produce a supercap, that is both expensive and requires the alliance to hold x number of systems."
"it would be nice if we knew how much money we had to give people, without opening a new window.edit: currently when you open the window it just asks you how much you want to send to the other party and i think it also takes focus away from the wallet (i.e. you can no longer click the wallet)."
"supported. i've experienced the same problem, and it seems like a simple and effective fix."
"yes please... i sometimes like to transfer all my isk off an alt to my main, and i have to actually ~remember~ how much isk is in my wallet... it's not good.supported.fake edit while i wait out the timer: either show the amount of isk in your wallet in the give money window, or be able to change focus once it's open (ya know, like every other window..)"
"remove unprobable t3 crusiers. with implats and 100% skills they are still not probable. this is unrealisting considering the best of the best cannot track them yet a directional will. even if it takes a higher set of skills to do so they should have some risk of being probed in low and null space. no risk no reward i always thought."
"before you started your little emo-rant did you bother to even take into account what is necessary to make one of those ships un-probable?yeah you can't find it...but it sure as hell ain't gonna amount to much in a fight.no risk no rewards come a price... but your too busy throwing a fit over not getting your gank you forgot that."
"ironically, it would be easier just to fit a cloak instead of going through all that trouble to become un-probable. if it is an exploit it's not a very good one."
"why is ccp not giving me free killmails? this is an outrage!"
"rabble, rabble, rabble, i demand plexes for posting here, this is an outrage, ccp needs to make this happen."
"while i don't like the fact that someone can be impossible to probe out, i understand that their ships become next to useless due to the modules needed to reach that 1.08 ratio. the real problem is that people can still mission in unprobable tengus, and that's just wrong."
"why is it wrong?"
"because he can't probe them out to kill them. how dare you think that eve can be played in a different way."
"not a fan of cloaks hey?\"pvp is haaaaaarrrdd, i want delayed local and no unprobable ships and i should get a warpin on every ratter as soon as i enter the system rabble rabble rabble!!!\""
"ah yes. still not supporting."
"let me start of by saying i miss the old eve (red moon rising is when i got in game) i know there have been patches and things added to make our eve life better but we have way to many things wrong.im not going to go through list but im going restate my case on a fewhigh sec is full of griefing corps i.e corps that wardec everyone. we want our pilots to get into corps more and out of npc corps but when they do the corp gets war deced and they cant function and they quit or go right back to npc corps. stop the war decs in high sec 0.6 and uplow sec gate guns are too weak i can tank them , but if you like the idea of pirates then take the security hits out of low sec leave the guns or no sec hit and put one or two concords and let us duke it out or be able to run . or amp the guns.this is it for now let the flaming commence."
"conversely, i propose that all npc corps are drafted into the faction war and are war decable. also, war decs are invalidated in starter systems against npc corps.i support keeping that part of low sec mostly as is, though i admit i'd be +1 to the removal of the sec status system since it punishes pvp and rewards pve. even when carebearing in low sec, i in myself frustrated by the sec status system. if someone comes into my mission, there's very little doubt what he's there for and i have no intention of just letting him gank me.not that i'm a carebear. :)-liang"
"i can agree with this. however, let me address the issues one at a time:1. the wardec system is horribly broken, but how do you fix it? this is not a forum to gripe and complain, but to offer suggestions on how to fix what is broken. let's figure out a way to fix the wardec situation, as even ccp knows it's broken.2. gate guns are pretty weak, as the ships have been improved but the gate guns have been left alone to the point that most larger ships can tank them. again, what do you propose to fix it?that said, i've seen lots of threads on both issues, but the solution is elusive. let's work together to fix the problems. until i see this, i cannot support a whine thread."
"next time you are trying to troll, please leave this sentence out. the subject itself is obvious, but with this sentence in your original post it makes it even more obvious."
"i propose that wardec's only be permissible between corporations that consent to entering the wardec pool. any corp that doesn't pays a fee to keep out of that pool, the fee not to exceed what a wardec on that corp would cost, same for alliances."
"yea, no. i agree it needs fixing but this definitely isn't it."
"i like this idea a lot, but i feel it needs modified slightly:- npc corps naturally cannot pay the fee since they have no player ceo, and thus are war dec'able.- the fee should be 50 mil * max(num members in corp during week) payable on sundays.- in an effort to prevent abuse of the system, the fee multiplies by 20 if you are currently war dec'ed, and max(members) becomes max(members) in last 6 months.i believe this would help eve's economy by encouraging more carebearing and provide a massive isk sink as risk averse people flock to war dec immune corps. -liang"
"id liek to propose that either ccp implament a choice to players to be able to use the old eve graphics or the new,.....orgive some new graphics option that are more \"old computer\" friendly. perhapse making the graphics able to be dumbed dow to old graphics equiv or possably even lower.this would help 3 groups of ppl those that dont have high-end machines, those that multi-box, and it would also help in large fleet battles."
"yep i can support this idea"
"yeah this would really help my system perform better."
"a really good idea ccp should look into this"
"yeah i vote in fav of this idea"
"this could open eve up to people with lesser computers i see the point made."
"a fine idea, every now n then i come across an area that even with the graphics down theres still something left to be desired in reguards to performance."
"hey i mostly dont care 1 way or the other but the thread creator is a friend and i know it would help them."
"yeah additional graphics options would have limited uses in my game, but, im sure theres people out there that could benefit from being able to lower graphix even farther so i see that this could benefit ppl so im onboard with the idea."
"yes"
"what a waste of programming time. it has a drop down so you can see the implants that are on the clone. if you actually played the game instead of forum whoring you would know this.even still i would rather them fix lag than waste time with such a minuscule issue."
"excellent idea"
"yes, naming them would help easily identify them, possibly their purpose in that system, and so on."
"1.0"
"cromo - says the one who has effectively gotten the assembly hall laughing and screaming all at once - ban cromo threadsupported.it be nice to specifically name clones without having to read the fine print of implants. also should include remote self destruct command."
"*sigh*, i'm pretty sure they were trying to prevent people from wanting to do this.so let's say we add extractor grouping? then people will be doing it in 60 planets at a time and the stuff will be worthless (and people will still complain that they have to click so much). the whole pi system needs to be adjusted, but just making it \"easier\" is not the solution."
"if the extractors are grouped like modules can be on your ship ui or if they are grouped by planet as another option i don't mind, a global extractor button would make it too easy i agree. my point is it feels like work to me as opposed to play and that defeats the object of spending time in a game, for me at least.thank you very much for the feedback tho o7"
"even if they made it a skill you have to train i don't care......changes must happen."
"well consider this. ccp wants these goods to be 100% produced by other players. however the demand for such goods would require most everyone running their own pi setup. most players don't want to bother with pi which means those of us who do must do so on a large scale. we keep the prices down by keeping supply up.there's big profit to be had and where there's profit, there will always be players looking to go to the distance to capitalize on it. and by profit i mean enough to compete against mid size moon mining operations. it was only natural that players took pi to large scale operations. we're filling a market hole that other players are not interested and/or too annoyed to put forth the effort to fill.right now, the biggest problem with pi on a large scale like this is time constraints and a poorly designed extraction process. it takes me around 45 minutes to log into each character and set all the extractors for a 5 hour cycle. doing this four times a day may not seem like much, but three hours of nothing but pi in eve each day gets tiresome.you say that you're pretty sure ccp was trying to prevent people from wanting to do something like this. that may or may not be true. but the high demand for pi goods and apparent lack of players filling that need evolved into the situation that i and others are in. it has become a monster that ccp has created and now it falls on them to take responsibility for it.btw, i am considering opening a third account for this purpose. the profit i'm pulling in from my current operation more than pays for plex cards to keep them running."
"i agree with the captain, demand is epic. everything i have sold on the open markets has gone in the first 24 hours - never seen anything like it. i am out in the sticks so to speak too, i guess it must be equally busy in the hubs. i would say this is beyond demand and more a vacume.a lot more material can be dropped into the market before prices take a hit in my opinion...also this is a new feature still and change is inevitable. i am just trying to field some options for consideration, and i'm sure the dev's will balance and tweak things in stages.i'm also skilling my third account to persue pi, with various alts following soon. definatly something i'm commited to doing in the long run."
"i have seen countless ideas on how to fix blisters. all have been over the top or overly complicated. the solution is very simple.i was watching spiderman 3 (best one btw) when it hit me. make blasters have a web effect on the target. just like spiderman does. so as you shoot them depending on ammo type and range it will slow them down like a web. now you will be able to get in optimal range to use the damage and tracking won't be an issue either."
"err, isn't that what a web is for?/not supportededit: first in a cromo effect thread!! hunting his comments (eve-search is cheating)has become a mini-game of mine, it's fun"
"blasters need a fix, but since this is a lolcromo thread, i will only say this one word:adoigurisoapsoaiateruieoapathank you for your comprehension."
"spiderman 3 gave me chronic diarrhea. though the idea is interesting but blasters realy need alot more tracking and dps (i mea the mega only out dps the geddon by 9% under 8km range and both can use a full flight of unbonused heavies. though blasters could be given more range so they can get 30km effective range so they can be used in 0.0 cr bs blobs which is dominated by geddons/amarr bs line up wih pulse+scorch. that would also require a large auto range buff though and be not a very popular buff overall and lead to alot of rage. i personaly favor increase hybrid damage+tracking, but i cant support anything that came from spiderman 3 till my chronic diarrhea that i got from it goes away."
"been waiting for one of these anyone who posts below this, remember, this is a troll, and does not deserve your support or otherwise.also, i don't recall spiderman's blasters having a web effect."
"students, as you can clearly see, the troll began right about this point."
"more of cromo's utterly stupid ideas being protested ----> ban cromo threadplease stfu cromo... everyone already knows your a total noob with no brain."
"basically the same as you, but more amusing. thumbs up"
"suddenly, natascha"
"wth you on about? do i smell a cromo alt?"
"ya know, i was coming into this thread thinking \"cromo has finally come up with something good!\"... or at least not something stupid. boy, was i wrong! teach me to get my hopes up..."
"look how dumb you are. i am talking about a module that adds a crazy 15% to armor amount. please show me a module that adds 15% to shields and then you will be allowed to talk amongst the rest of us adults."
"after dmg mods, armor hardeners, plates, and a damage control, there is no practical space on any ship for regenerative platings. the only ship it may be worth using them on is a bricktank, drone based proteus. on every other ship, there is no reason to warrant using regeneratives over additional resis. stop trolling my forums plz.in reference to your post, please show me a module that will give 90% resists across your armor, while still having space for plates, dmg mods, and a dcu. shield tankers can do this, can armor tankers?"
"don't argue with him. you could throw facts and figures at him all day but he's going to continue trolling and poasting misinformation and ignorant statements. just report him for trolling and show some support here:[proposal]ban cromo effect from posting on this sub forum ever againi've never seen a proposal to shut someone up receive so much support until today."
"...shield extenders?"
"drake army begs to differ good sir."
"i assume you run the 2 accounts from the same installation, if you make seperate copies of the game for each account, you should not experience this problem.of course if you run a great number of accounts ( like 5+ ) this could become an issue with patching and harddisk space ( you need to path each copy seperatly )."
"updated op"
"give chribba his own color band for threads he posted in.maybe veldspar colored."
"stupid./epic not supported"
"nobody asked you buddeh./supported for chribba"
"/supported.ifly"
"supported!"
"/signed"
"nobody asked you either yet you decided to give your opinion anyway? weird that your allowed he isn't? an no i am sorry but he is just another person who is playing a game like the rest of us. grow up and stop \"hero\" worshiping it's sad and a little embarrasing.p.s - nothing against you chribba you seem a nice enought chap just a wee bit tired now, it reminds me of chuck norris jokes where everything thinks they look cool by definition of joining in."
"chribba, has won eve. monetary might, military might, and he even took some sov for a few days. (somebody doesn't know about chromo effect. )"
"chribba is not just some guy. without him eve would not be what it is today.imagine an eve without eve files, eve search, eve agents and no way to safely get titans or motherships without either building them yourself or scamming someone.he has deserved a yellow veldspar band for a long time now, and it is shameful ccp have not done so."
"what color does veldspar have?"
"brown?"
"yes /signed"
"supporting because cromo doesn't like it. and because chribba is awesome."
"supported because chribba once gave me free stuff. those veldspar mining crystal ii bpcs made me richer than anyone can image...!well not really"
"/signed"
"signed."
"mom trades with chribba :) i dont trust people i know personally this well loledit*support tick"
"imho, chribba wins eve."
"what a stupid idea. chribba may provide eve related services to the players of eve and be viewed as trustworthy by some, but at the end of the day he is just another player, no more, no less.not supported, and gtfo brownnoser!"
"the veldspar must flow"
"yes"
"cromo obviously doesn't know who chribba is... well he doesn't know anything.---> ban cromo effect threadthat said... chribba is eve.supported. :)"
"even though chribba's awesome, i can't support this (i hope he wouldn't either).fwiw i consider this a pretty lame troll thread."
"hello i wonder if it would be possible for players to be able change the background of the login screen to eve's older login screens if they choose so, i know that ccp have put alot of work into their recent expansion, but it would be cool for players to go back to old login screens like apocrypha or the empyrean age just for the epic music and backgrounds.please could this be talked about in the csm because i think that it is not just me who would like this to become a feature."
"yop would be a cool feature."
"not bad idea...there are some better things to improve for sure, but i think this could be added to the list"
"pretty cool idea."
"yes"
"supportin 'dis.not a huge issue (hell, not even an issue), but it would be sweet..."
"this guy is hilarious, i think he should still be allowed on this forum, i get a good laugh out of him and his stupid poasts"
"lol"
"like remote ecm bursts?"
"you're so very wrong. supercarriers are so dirt cheap that most anyone in my corp can go buy one personally with the tiniest bit of grinding. furthermore, it's not at all uncommon for a supercarrier drop or a titan bridge even when you're 2 jdc5 cyno jumps from any 0.0 system. for instance, i'm fairly sure there's at least 4 titans and 20 supercarriers that live within bridge range of amamake. we've seen 20 supercaps dropped on us in the middle of aus tz ffs.you want your \"0.0 alliance tools\" to be overpowered? that's great man - knock yourselves out. just get them the **** out of low sec.-liang"
"i shall call you on your bs. 15+ billion, plus 4 billion in fittings, plus fighters/etc is not dirt cheap - nor require the \"tiniest bit of grinding.\" but, hey, feel free to go out and create the universe's biggest supercapital blob (since hey, you can all afford them) and kill the ones that are annoying you.they are not overpowered and a stupid pilot will lose his expensive ship very quickly.as i stated in the other supcarrier thread, the resolution to this problem is finding a way to limit their production, not nerf a balanced ship to bits."
"let's put that 20 billion in perspective a bit:- 100 hours of grinding at 200m isk/hr (3 weeks at 200m isk/hr and 5 hours/day)- 20 pithum a-type msbs- chump change for someone playing the market- 29 gtcsseeing as how 200m isk/hr just isn't that much, i'm just not seeing how its that expensive?exactly. the only answer to a supercap blob is a bigger supercap blob. this argument has caused more nerfs than any other argument in history.and a smart pilot traveling in a smallish gang of them will almost never lose his. certainly not in low sec where the counters are even more limited and much much more rare than in 0.0.agreed, i'd love to see the means of production nerfed: 500 billion for a supercarrier and 10-20 trillion for a titan should be good for now. but only a fool would say they're not overpowered.you want to make the argument that they're 0.0 alliance tools, then make them 0.0 alliance tools - get them the **** out of low sec.-liang"
"people love to whine there's nothing wrong with supercarriers/moms the only things that need changing are1.hel needs more ehp2.hel needs a better bonus as 7.5% to rep amount per/lvl is useless seeing as it cant triage3.there models need to be like 50% bigger thats itfor the rest of the whiner's in here go back to farming missions or lol warfare that the rest of eve doesnt give 2 s#### about and shut upoh and what ever your smoking is some bad s### a nyx wont take 15 dd's try 8-9"
"fully bonused (erebus/damnation), properly fit, 28% ean's, and x-type hardererns and t2 rigs, and properly implanted, a nyx get's upwards of 52 mil ehp. w/o erebus but with damnation, it's about 45 mil. are there plenty of people out there who do not meet those criteria, absolutely. but in situations of organized fleet warfare, it's far less likely. an aeon can get upwards of 75-80 mil depending on fit, a wyvern can get anywhere from 50-75 mil depending on just how rich and wasteful a player wants to be, a hel can typically get somewhere from 35-45, unless you're a ****** like viper shiz. and think it's better to armor tank it than shield tank it.no good fc goes into a fight with that much riding on the line assuming his side or the other side are that moronic that they will not fit properly or bonus properly. if they do, the fight is almost always decided before they ever jumped (ie gank)."
"yeah, there is something wrong with supercarriers. they're in low sec. take them back to lolsovwarfare that the rest of eve doesn't give 2 s#### about and shut up-liang"
"bang on, got my vote."
"thanks, i think it would be a huge boon to the game to see [item x] have [stat x] buffed a bit, as it stands [item y] utterly outclasses it by [stat x] and [stat y]. i hope to see a fix to it some time in the next 18 [months]."
"remove the gate guns! the way i see it they only restrict what types of ships you can use in losec to bc<U+FFFD>s and up. ive never seen gate guns \"help\" or protect a wandering newbie or carebear. pirates allways know they are there and tank for it. we should still keep all the losec rules off no bombs, bubbles and so on. this would distinguish losec even more as a space between hisec and null. if gate guns where to be removed we could use frigs, destroyers, cruisers, interceptors, stealth bombers and so on in losec too. this serves two purposes. first, it would make losec more fun and diverse, you could go on a roam in smaller ships, have some fun fights and you wouldnt see a battlecruiser everywhere you fly. second, newer players and those with thinner wallets could finally come into losec and try to get a fight without risking all their savings flying a bc. ofc you can fly frigs in losec now too, but most fights occur at gates/stations where the guns are at. id stay in losec forever if the guns were removed. when i started eve i had a dream to fly a small, fast and somewhat cheap ships that i could replace while learning pvp. i skilled up interceptors, stealthbombers, electronic attack frigs, recon ships and the likes, and i cant use them as most fights are taking place at gates/stations. yes i could move to 0.0 or join fw, but i dont want to. i like losec."
"no.all you would get is remote sensor boosted insta locking interceptors in every gate camp.lowsec pvp is more than gate camping. just saying."
"yes, because pvp is all about gate camping...no. piracy doesn't need any more of a boost. if you want to use a frigate in low-sec, fine. just don't break the law in sight of the police (the sentry guns). shoot outlaws, war-targets, or be a pirate somewhere away from gates and stations."
"you really should stop seeing things. it's producing awful ideas."
"completely agree."
"btw sokratesz.. i no longer hate your frog... anyhow back on topic,ok i have to admit that i was curious to find out more details about her real world political career. what i read was somewhat of a surprise. if you go to the pirate party's wikipedia entry it lists that of the ten thousand votes cast for pirate party candidates, she came in second!!!and this brings up another curiosity... doesn't the pirate parties purpose and ideals stand in direct contrast with the very nature of an nda? now the question would be if she was already part of it when she became a csm and if that in itself was a partial reason behind her dismissal.party party wikipedia entry"
"i dont know, i think you might be mistaking them for wikileaks :]"
"you are misinterpreting the results a little. while the pirate party won 10,471 votes nationwide, holland runs it's elections on a party-list propotional representation system, and eva was second on the list submitted by the pirate party. that means if the party had gained enough votes for one seat, the first on the list would have won a seat, and if enough for two seats, then eva would have won a seat. needless to say, they were very far from attaining those results.im also digging around a bit, as it seems that the the memebers council of the pirate party has just forced the resignation of it's board, so eva may be out on her arse again.ah, it appears that eva was not on the board, but is a member of the members council, as far as i can see, she was one of three 'charged with preparing the party' for the elections."
"hello fin, look, i'm sorry you didn't do well in your sophomore english class. you've referred to it often in other posts, and it obviously left quite an impression on you. as for myself, i can't help but agree with you that the postmodern turn can be full of rubbish. but then, what other intellectual movement doesn't have its share of garbage, a? still, these repetitive insults are of no consequence to me, and do even less to improve your credibility. and yet, there appears to be an agile mind behind these aspersions. so how about a truce?i'm more than happy, as i have been in the past, to listen sympathetically to your arguments. indeed, if you've been noticing my acceptance of pvp as an indispensable element of eve, then perhaps you'll see i'm not entirely opposed to your viewpoint. in return, please drop the insults, deploy the principle of charitable interpretation to the posts i write, and look for the win-win possibilities in our mutual points of view. in this way we are much more likely to reach common understandings for the common good. delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"being relatively new to eve, and to these forums, time and time again i read proposals on improvements to lowsec. generally, the suggestions involve gameplay mechanics, and the solutions have just about nothing in common. bar one thing. incentive.i think the best way to solve this problem is to ask the right people to approach the task. eve has, in the past, gained the attention of certain academics - economists, i believe. ccp might consider asking theorists how to provide enough incentive for people to venture into lowsec. it's a sandbox world, so the cause effect relationship would be interesting to document.this might sound silly, but there are philosophers and mathematicians who do nothing but think about these sorts of problems. there might even be one or two amongst the playerbase- probably not, i know...this post will be flamed to death, but the problems of lowsec need to be seriously addressed. a gameplay mechanic will only go so far, unless it's devised by someone familiar with the kind of thought it takes to create predictable social results.or, just fix the ****ing bounty system."
"hello bily, this is an excellent suggestion. allow me a friendly amendment if i may. one of my very best friends is an economic modeler and game theorist. he'd have a great deal of relevant advice for ccp. at the same time, he would also be the first to admit that economics and game theory is a reification of the fulsome range of motivations and intentions that characterize the actions of human beings. so we might want to extend our search for advice to quantitative and qualitative researchers in the social sciences overall -- e.g., anthropologists, geographers, historians, psychologists, political scientists, sociologists and the like. respectfully, delilahfriendsofeve.wordpress.com"
"i hadn't really pegged down one particular mode of thought, or the proponents of said thought. i'm merely suggesting that, with the way this game has developed, it might be worth ccps time to seriously consider involving the right kinds of thinkers if they'd like to see this game continue to be played, with a possibility of flourishing. there probably exists a huge disparity between game development and academia. for sandbox mmos, this gap will have to close. a game like eve can be viewed as a caricature of society, or at least certain aspects of it. and like real societies, when problems arise, and the right people don't think about these problems, the society collapses. eve is going to die if ccp does not legitimately consider the ideas put before them by the csm. hopefully the ideas the csm does develop have been thought out in ways that it seems ccp does not have the time to do."
"you and delilah should get on very well together. if i was you, that would make me seriously worried."
"out of my head i can think of a handful of other reasons why eve would \"die\" before that one, seriously. just look up what initially was described as being the csm's role and what is the current reality. not saying it has become a caricature of the initial plans, although i'd be kinda pressed to find a much more suitable expression."
"nah dood."
"this.ps the people you're talking about are called, appropriately enough, game theorists."
"this is not a troll or a flame, but merely an opinion based on previously being in the same corporation as this csm candidate: he is not suited for the job. he doesn't have a good understanding of eve, and i know this through hearing his \"ideas\" and \"plans\" that regarded the corp at the time. also, he fits ships mostly incorrectly, despite \"playing since 2002.\" a viewing of battleclinic only reveals a portion of his inadequacy, but i saw many things regarding this user that made me face palm with much certainty. however, he would be better than ankemafkjefjejff so whatever."
"because this way you at least have a person to poke and prod and complain to get issues looked at faster, all a poll does is give you info to be ignored when it doesnt suit you."
"unfortunately, rl circumstances prevented vuk lau, soktratez and mynxee to attend. since no alts showed up, we could not get a quorum. this meeting has been postponed 1 week until sunday september 5th, 17:00."
"your more bothered about sisi skills than actually sorting/suggesting usefull stuff for tq? skills on sisi doesnt really matter tbh id rather content of what they had be tested instead of everyone been able to use more ships than they can on tq tbh"
"i'd like to support venkul's suggestion here. the economic dimension of eve is as important as any other. it would be good to learn more about what ccp plans for the economic environment in the future. delilah"
"eve economy issues were raised inside many other discussions. also regarding the comment about the line up of csm, judging by the amount of isk, some delegates have (or had) please visit your user settings to re-enable images. we have more then few economy experts here."
"one of my concerns as i peruse ah trying to decide what proposals to raise is that so many of them have so little support. others that are getting good supports are often ones that have already been around for awhile, raised in csm meetings, passed (or failed) the csm vote, and thus not candidates to be raised again. csm has started some discussion with ccp to sort out a quick, easy way to mark ah threads so that those which csm has already voted on are visually distinguished somehow. would make it a lot easier to sort through there and identify the threads that had not yet been raised.it's up to players to rally support for their proposals. if i see a proposal with less than a couple dozen reads and majority support from respondents, i have to assume that no cares much about that particular issue. it's difficult to justify raising it in that case."
"back to the front"
"hell spend the next 18 months fixing and getting this game to 'excellence' status. no more new expansions."
"i have no problem with ccp skipping an expansion or two just to sit down and iron out the game as it is atm. there are many bugs, game play issues, balance issues, etc. etc. that have needed addressing for a long while. heck if it makes em happy, they can pretend to make an expansion call it. \"patchathon\" and all it is, is 6months worth of bug fixes, gameplay yada yada, rolled into one giant 800mb+ patch."
"1.0"
"+1 vote for polishing the game we have now before adding more half-assed features!"
"it really says a lot about ccps credibility when the csms bring this issue to the devs attention, the devs strongly insist that they are indeed committed to excellence, and nobody believes them.talk is cheap and it's easy for ccp to say that they're committed. hell, i can say that i'm the pope but it doesn't make it true. the proof is in the pudding and that's some mighty awful pudding."
"yes please ccp customizable font size....i run a 27inch lcd - 2560x1440thanksgazibom"
"supported"
"this, i want to be able to read the damned text without having to hug my monitor."
"i had originally trained caldari and gallente ships across the board. t2 blasters and rails. i tried to argue that these weapons were broken. nothing happened.so, i trained amarr across the board. flying the zealot now drives home how bad the eagle and deimos are. cr geddon put the mega in perspective (mega is terribly inferior). lr poc just makes the rokh embarrassing to fly. training minmatar now and it seems similar revelations as to the inadequacies of hybrids are in store.i guess, to the people posting support here, don't give up hope, but you really should just train something else for the time being. hybrids have been the bottom of the pile for over a year now. don't hold your breath."
"hybrids in general are dated / archaic / obsolete with the current game mechanics.i tend to agree that blasters could do with a tracking and damage buff, the range would be fine if they did significantly more damage than say pulse lasers."
"supported. blasters need to do moar damage. especially since they use vastly more m3 of ammo compared to lasers."
"also, can we have blaster long-range ammo fixed??"
"love the volume counter & insurance ideas.as for the rest i'm not sure how helpful they'd be, because i dont live and breathe courier contracts, but if it makes couriers lives easier then it gets my vote!!!"
"well i support this.on a related note, why is the \"check for damaged items\" on the last step of creating an item exhchange contract? meaning you have to start all over and search for the damaged item. it's a pain when you're trying to do hangar cleanup by remote contracting."
"any news about the proposal made from csm to ccp teams ?"
"swell idea, thumbs up!"
"bumping so that more uninformed posters might google futanari and be enlightened."
"i swear the first time i read \"****ing in stations\" :d (edit: censor... well, just swap the l for an n and you see what i mean.)anyway, never google something before wikiing it.also, supported even if it's not something i particularly like... it just makes sense."
"but then we need a seperate client for the americans and australians ...still supported :p"
"4chan is that way ---->"
"this thread needs more support."
"supported, just for the lols.(although it would suck if it attracted kids to the gallente stations)"
"at first glance it may look stupid but the idea of having different kind of entertainment depending of the faction owning the station would be awesome.there would be girls with ****s in gallentean station, innocent faces like shows in amarrian ones and in blood raiders ones there would be... well i don't think i'd like to know what there is these stations."
"i absolutely agree with this post. but i would like to see these changes applied to a new t2 varient of destroyers known as \"assault destroyers\" no rof penalty, better pg and cpu, and all the other things you mentioned.also i forgot who is the drone heavy race. but who ever it is, drop thier highslots to like 2 or 3. but let em have a drone bay that can have like 8-10 small drones. or something like that."
"lol that would be the best destroyer, its just makes all other powerless. just think of it, 5 t2 150mm rails + 5 t2 hobs hit orbit at 10km and enjoy the fireworks. ~drones are not for destroyers~"
"grace halibel,1,3,6,7,8,9,10,14,15,16,20,23,24,30,33,164,157,132,113,138"
"colonel evans,18,19,21,23,33,34,37,47,51,52,56,67,69,100,120,133,122,167,168"
"reminding me of spiderman3 is enough."
"i don't know, i found his thread on fixing blisters pretty riveting. not sure what putting a web effect on short range hybrids has to do with a blister. but what the hell, good stuff. not really, i'm just making sh*t up.also, i support his posting ban."
"ooo look the cromo alt!"
"banned trolls are the best trolls. read from that what you will."
"supported."
"this would be nice to have."
"thumbs up!"
"/supported finally maybe some newbies understand the real value of their drops if they see a flashy meta 4 heavy launcher in the wreck.... also will make my life easier at salvaging every worthless **** and having to \"right click\" check info :)"
"i most definately support this, as it is irritating to figure exactly what meta level item things are when trying to balance to outfitting of a ship. color codes would certainly help."
"as this was brought up in the dev blog here. this was on the list that the csm presented to ccp on aug 16 which can be found here"
"finally!"
"not for stuff a new player can afford, as minerals are mined everywhere.you can fly around there safely too.. just getting there will be a bit trickier than before.. and that would be bad?the agent system is broken anyways.. many proposals already brought up. don't hang onto something that's archaic.phew.. time for ccp to pull out some more for the other factions?!i mean, they told us a year(?!) ago that their new mission scripting system is so awesome, that they could pull out new epic arcs practically every month..something to look forward then? seems to look good under this point of view.. non-instant-gratification.if you get older you will see that this is good."
"supported! besides the bias that i'm a pirate and would love more lowsec to kill in, i like the idea because it adds, as aurum put it, \"flavor\" to each empire island.kill the eve pangaea, make into continents!!!ps. if you really support this topic, make sure to check the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" box, because \"+1 support\" just doesn't cut it."
"and let's say i'm a pirate, so i'm all for making lowsec between empires because not doing so would be a huge setback to my possible profits. you also show bias against having varo set up his research franchise. my friend doesn't want this because he makes money moving things in freighters between trade hubs. a guy i was talking to in local is a highsec carebear and thinks lowsec is bad bad bad, and doesn't want to be forced through it to go to another empire.everyone has a bias.note: that was all made up, except the part about you, but let's just pretend it's real...edit: not supported."
"what the care bears think will happen: brave souls will ship goods across the low sec areas to make huge profits, industrialistsntake advantage of scarcity to make profits manufacturing bulky goods near regional market hubs, everyone is happy.what will really happen: everyone moves to jita, every other hisec region perishes. pirates camping low sec border gates wonder what they can do to get more care bears out into low sec."
"naw you're just seeing the usual suspects trying to force players into pirate nests so they can extend their killboard e-peens.apparently that's supposed to appeal to their victims and make low sec more popular or something."
"i for one think this would be a great idea. it would add another choke point in trade and open up another career for traders. i would think this, with ccp help, allow alliances to set up trade control routes through low-sec as one way to add more game play to eve."
"supported as long as there are plenty of entry points and the gate guns are also buffed up, way too easy and safe for people to sit and tank them getting easy ganks then running off when something looking a bit more that it could defend itself turns up. personally i'd say put scramming and webbing modules as well as the guns on the gates so if someone wants to agress on a gate they also get some risk involved, make a timer on it, 5 - 10 minuites seems fair, enough time for the ganked to get something together and get revenge."
"yes more chokepoints is really what eve needs...hahahahhahahhahahhhahawait, you are serious? spreading the population out? lol.lets add some realism. jita is the biggest trade hub. partially due to ignorance, there is no real reason to buy a normal t2 fitted ship in jita instead of amarr for example, but still enough do the trip. so now you want more easy ganks and want to add low sec between the empires, tbh would easier solution would be if you could just ask ccp to spawn ncp freighters in your camp. but why exactly do you think that after this change, which will only lead to the smaller hubs being less stocked, will anyone live in gallente space when you can also just run missions in motsu and do your shopping in jita without low sec between it?the main effects will be some easy ganks for pirates and even more crowding in caldari space with less people in space of other empires."
"/signed this gets +1 frp, ,e"
"this thread definitely needs more thumbs up from failing pirates."
"it's very time consuming to travel through the universe already now. no."
"i don't actually know if removing superhighways will change the population distribution or polarize even more the global market and the empire population.but the example of yulai gives us some hope about the market decentralizing.so, i'll support this idea."
"love it. make all empire borders in losec."
"great idea"
"sounds interesting."
"+1when i first started i thought 0.0 separated the different empires and was very disappointed to learn that it wasn't only wrong but that we have high-sec connections! where's the risk?"
"as long as this doesn't become another rancor, one system highway."
"not supported,and how does this make sense from an rp point of view? concord has a mission, and part of that mission is to promote peace between the major empires. a good step to this would be to create safe space \"highways\" so diplomats and such could get from empire to empire without being blown up on route. having safe routes for empire's traders and citizens also promotes communication, friendship and peace. removing these routes is not something concord would do from an rp point of view as it would push them years back in their mission."
"from an rp standpoint? seriously? those \"highways\" should be war zones from an rp standpoint. there should be enormous npc fleets shooting people attempting to provide their enemy with aid."
"not supported, just another bs game change to boost one group's style of play with the lame attempt to say it is to make 'trade better', which would do little more than let each region become a cash cow for fatcat economic warlords."
"suppoted wholeheartedly."
"personally i thin kthis is a bad idea.all i can see is trade being choked off, as no one with a clue would take a freighter into low sec unless they had major firesupport, wich would simply put trade into the hands of the power grps only.i dont see it as increasing but decreasing trade. the only other group benefited by this are the pirates. welcoem to rancor #27 enjoy your gank err i meant day.i support this idea not being implamented."
"+1 to the idea of making it more likely that high sec regions will have different markets. somehow."
"so wrong it's hard to know where to start. first, the empires are not all at war with each other. there are allied npc \"sides\" that exist in a state of cold war with the occasional skirmish.second, there's no logical reason why the heavily fortified borders between cold war opponents would be *less* secure. realistically they would be the most secured areas in space.third, the empires use concord for the specific purpose of facilitating trade between them. forth, under your reasoning there's no reason why there would be a low-sec border between allies either (amarr/caldari, minmatar/gallente).lastly, this whole idea of \"boost null sec by punishing carebears\" needs to end. they aren't gonna go to low sec by force. it's not going to work. it's just going to make the eve universe a lot smaller for a huge amount of players. ccp knows this -- this is why they aren't ever gonna remove the highways. you'd be better off getting behind ideas that ccp might actually implement to bring more peeps into low and null and to create regional markets."
"i dunno if it has been suggested before... but i suggest ccp allow the renameing of pos modules, particulary the corp hangers and smas.the simple purpose is just to allow better organisation of poss with a number of similar modules.it would also be nice if we could see (only see, not put or take) into offline corp hangers again."
"supported"
"you can name pos modules; just not smas and corp hangars. use component assembly arrays instead of corp hangars for instance."
"currently, if you try to look at a npc corporations lp store while you do not have any lp points for that corporation, you get a message similar to (paraphrased) \"you don't have any lp with us so we're not going to show you what you could get. sod off!\"this seems illogical and makes no sense - why would someone looking for people to do missions for their corporation not advertise what the corporation can do for you? also i want to be able to see what the corporation is offering before i choose to spend my time doing missions for it.i know i could look elsewhere on the web, but i should be able to do this in game."
"why do you think that i'm galvantine??i'm really not. lol"
"well, in swg there was a bounty system similar to that described in the op. the solution to this problem was that only the guy with the mission who dealt the killing blow could get the bounty (and thus clear it on the target).now, in eve this is not as simple since there are no classes, but one thing that was done to prevent friendly hunters from getting the bounty mission is that the mission targets were anonymous and you had to retrieve the target name and location with other means.now, there are probably ways to make this work in eve... the problem is that probably the benefit is far too low compared to the costs... though if i remember i'll try to post a way to make this system work."
"sorry, but this seems like it would get abused badly. i'm sure other people have pointed out nothing would prevent me from putting a bounty on a juicy isk hauler, or some miner in a belt, and then pwning him without worrying about concord. try again with your idea. bounty system does need a fix, but it needs to be fixed in a way that won't get abused to the point of omg wtf emoragequit.do i have any control over what bounty i take, or is it assigned randomly?"
"to prevent that sort of abuse it would have to be random. and you would be able to refuse 1 mission every say 24 hours or something"
"thank you for the responses i agree and disagree with some.my suggestions to fixis have a wardec charter system to where you cant get war deced a random, you can pay like the idea above a fee for this privilege sorta like paying for be neutral.if there is a grievance then there must be a mutual agreement. now .4 and below this does not apply .if were going to have pirates then we must let piracy flow. no more sec hits in low sec if so then this needs to be lightened as in 3 warnings. if were going have gate guns in low sec then the need to be more powerful ."
"my very simple proposal is the implementation of market escrow with sell orders. to best explain this i will change the description for the current skill that deals with the already existing mechanic with buy orders. margin trading new wiki description i think this would be an interesting addition to the eve market, what do you think?"
"it would be fun to name a clone \"joe\""
"op's point is that when you see 'gnome' kva1000, do you know wtf that is? unless you've been playing eve, and doing lots of stuff with jumpclones, for a while, you don't know. it's easier to set a the jc's name to \"shield stuff\" or something.also, this would only take a max of a day or two, and i doubt two, to program. all jumpclones have a reference number (you never see it, but that's how the db and client communicate about which jumpclone they're talking about), all you'd have to do is link a name to that reference number, and add a little bit of ui.supported."
"supported"
"was just thinking about this the other day"
"great idea, thumbs up!"
"oh hell, another character reached all lvl 4's in pi skills. that means more cc's to set up and more extractors to punch every six hours."
"this is *very* badly needed; i'm getting tired of dealing with it already, and i don't even have as many planets set up as the op. i was even asking around the other day what the shortcut for this was; it seems incomplete without it.thank you for starting this topic, uurakaii."
"captain p does seem to be supporting all of cromo's threads, cromo main detected."
"god, don't put natascha in my eve/not supported"
"did they fix the natascha yet?"
"autocannons should automatically warp scramble you with a 3 point scram that deactivates mwd's. torpedoes should be switched with boarding torpedoes that have space marines on them that take over the enemy's ship and then let you pilot it remotely. pulse lasers should simply be doomsdays."
"how is this an \"official\" fix?also, blaster boats should be equipped with flaming gnome launchers that do 9001 damage per volley and spam your target's evemail with nasty taunts about his/her sister."
"not supported, take a pencil, insert it perpendicular to your palm between your middle finger and ring finger. then using the other hand squeeze your fingers with the pencil together. after that hang your head in shame."
"if you have problems with blisters you should cut them open. i know its gross, but it really, really helps. oh .. and buy new shoes!"
"i loled hard"
"i would support that idea only if you make it a 6 poitn scram instead of 3pulse lasers is not enough, they should open it up to all laser type weaponsto add to op's idea, how about if we make titans only require 1 trit and 1 megacyte to manufacture, and also make them dockable, and the prerequisits would only be frigate ii and spaceship command iiijita is the only place where a doomsday works like before (giant smartbomb) and increase its range to 250kmnow that we are at it make the doomsday fittable to interceptors and interdictorsmake a heavy missile do all types of damage and web scram neut with a 100% jamming strengthif these seem a bit exagerated, go look at other posts the op has made, suddenly my proposals seem reasonable compared to his...edit: cromo please stop posting"
"i mean they dont even regenerate armor!"
"but that's more than 15% sometimes... nerf shield extenders!"
"what next, are you going to nerf my civilian warp disruptor!? i say no to this preposterous idea."
"yes"
"supported"
"ur all dum"
"support for this. cromo effect doesn't like it? all the more reason to support."
"agreedsportedand yes he deserves itcromo, acording to your logic no one in the world should have any kind of title, be it king or ceo or hell, no one should be nighted by the queen either... because in the end we are all mamals"
"hmmm... less meta-gaming and less super-cap over-proliferation... doesn't sound that bad now that you say it. also not supported."
"while i would support this, i have an alternative solution: why doesn't chribba just get forums working? ccp already relies, presumably without compensation. on him to host eve agents, files, pilot boards and skill sets, and most surprisingly forum history. wouldn't it just be easier to use chribba's forums? someone less charitable than i might suggest that, even with a 10+ person web team, these forums have not seen a lot of improvements recently and may not be completely state-of-the-art."
"(yes i'm cheating by supporting it but...)"
"this is what youll find in the link of the op.supported"
"hell, just set it up with the contacts list you already have. you can choose who (dark red, light red, neutral, light blue and dark blue) has to pay the cspa. ya know, so you don't have to separately add them.maybe even set it to default off? in any case, supported."
"like i said in another form it should be changed to this so that we can charge cretin people x amount. i would deff use this if they set it up."
"thankyou to persona n0ngrata for saving me some time =dbump-de-dump"
"issuesometimes it's really time consuming and annoying to buy several ships with a specific fitting. excel lists or eft can't help really, because you have to order every single part in marked. proposala) therefore i propose purchase lists with all items that one will buy. such a list includes: - name of the list- a list of items with- max. buy prices and- number items to buy. metadata: -number of purchases for a list. if the max buy price is lower than the lowest sell price, the system should generating a buy order, with the maxium buy price. if the max. buy price is higher than the lowest sell order, the system buy the item for the price of the lowest sell order.b) a fitting should automatically converted into a purchase listadvantageso buyers have their fittings converted into a purchase list and can buy hole ships incl. fitting using only a part of their time as before. systems lie jita get less systemload because, player don't klick around in the marked lists. it should be a greater advantage for corps that buying ships for the members"
"even if they donated 80% of each destroyed plex, they would still get the 20% as free monies... and the pr-value!"
"blow ships up for the greater good! hopefully you find a plex in it and it pops.<U+FFFD>son, did you pop your punisher today? the world needs it. and if you are lucky it has 30 plexes in it. and you help to safe the day!<U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>but doesn't a popped puni safe the day anyway?<U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>hm. that has a point.<U+FFFD>"
"/signed good idea"
"nope, seems more like hello kitty than eve, world is a harsh place. pplus to all the people saying it is money ccp are getting for free need to learn more about buisness's , the amount of destroyed plex's that get replaced by rl money would be very very low, people only got a certain amount of disposable income and once that is gone it's gone, so in all likelyhood these people with lost (unredeemed) plex's will either try to pay for it with isk or go inactive as they can't afford it, so ccp will lose out on the sub money plus not have the person resub with money."
"no the pirate party in itself kind of stands against the concept of nda. ;) they are the ones that have been standing up for the sites such as the pirate bay torrent trackers and whatnot. even going as far as to host the pirate bay on their own servers where they can't be touched due to the laws involved when it comes to political party private servers. they are also planning (or already have) to start their own party funded isp with no logging what so ever and full user privacy. it has caused a bit of controversy lately. i wasn't saying wikipedia stands against the concept of nda, but instead that the pirate party does. ;) wikipedia just happened to be where the info was on the party that listed eva's name. which is why i linked it...and i know wikipedia and wikileaks are two completely different creatures, but i think you may have misunderstood my last post and wanted to clarify.(note i am not saying i am for or against the entire concept of the pirate party. just bringing it to light as it involves eva.)ahh that would explain it a bit more.. i was a tad bit confused when reading that. i'm curious to see what you find out though in your digging for further information on the topic."
"for a minute there, i thought i had left this reality and entered into one where eve was not a game but an actual something that mattered then i looked again and re-assured myself that yes, this is still a game i play for free . and you know what they say about things you get for free, you don't really care about it all that much."
"most definitely."
"looking at things economically can be helpful to an extent. yes raising isk rewards will lead to more people going into low sec. however it ignores an even more important factor. is it fun going into low sec? make low sec more fun and more people will go."
"actually, this is the task of a financial analyst, not an economist. they need to run risk assessments, put together a reasonable beta figure and then run some capm on different activities that can be done in low sec and compare those to their high sec and null sec variants.ways to make low sec a valid investment include making a new activity that competes on a \"fun factor\" more than an income factor or simply put low sec activities in line with the risk-reward of high sec and null sec."
"thank you, dierdra, for filling in for me. the op has been updated to reflect the new date for this meeting. unfortunately, mr. mynxee and i will be away celebrating our anniversary in a casino on 5 september so you (or teadaze or trebor) get to fill in for me again!"
"perhaps you should do the meeting the 12 september because perhaps the new trailer / announces ccp will do during the pax will bring new perspectives for many things no ?"
"we do meetings every two weeks regardless. the next normally scheduled one would be 11 sept."
"hello,ccp you are always so good.arnar gylfason tell us the point in the news...not to us but to the marketing guys...players are waiting answers on forum and you go in the external news...ccp interview about backlogok 140 people working on the dev...and \"some of the features that have been requested, or need some loving, theoretically, we have enough people to work on alongside everything else, but there are bottlenecks in the production chain where things fall apart. what we are doing, however, is were taking our focus off these features, in general, to refactoring older features. this is a process that started, basically, at the beginning of this year and will continue throughout next year till the point where well halt production on new features, and turn to refactoring the old features or updating older game designs.you can call it development eras if you want. so you add a bunch of new features, then you reiterate on those features until youre satisfied that theyre polished. in general, what you see is, and i guess the players have been seeing this, and they will be seeing it more in the next release and the next release thereafter is a focus shift to iteration.\"then men....18 months prior any change their plan for their player requests.seems for ccp a bug is just an old feature that need a refactoring. never tested to refactor bug...should be a hard job to it to stay 18 months.yeay"
"such a obious thing that should have been fixed long ago... i have a hard time reading with good eyesight so i feel sorry for ppl with bad sight. its a joke..."
"support"
"i guessccp will not return old web effect (-90% webbed ship)ccp will not implement crazy ideas about adding special effects to blasters like shield penetration, stunning effect, webbing effect and otherccp will not give more range to blasters it will blur advantage of laser optimal and ac falloffthe more logical is to increase damage and tracking. make blasters outstanding in extremely short-range engagements if you do not want to change range. as for now i do not see advantage of blasters. pulses do almost the same damage as blasters (85%) at 300% optimal (400% comparing scorch vs null)p.s. do not send me eft fits of 1000 dps brutix and 1450 dps hyperion."
"well they could boost ships too and balance out fitting reqs(insane atm:( )also they could redesing the whole hybrid ammo/gun line just like projectilesimho best is to do both"
"mostly this.but still, what the **** man?"
"great idea."
"+1 support this topic"
"soooo much this."
"i have an almost identical thread, sorry didn't see yours, but hey you got my support :)"
"can't we get a feature to ignore/hide for users/threads respectively? at the least i'd like to be able to 'banish' a thread at some point instead of seeing it continually rise to the top like a cheeky turd."
"wholeheartedly supported, his post's are like some god-forsaken afterbirth union of the very worst posters in eve's history."
"1.0"
"eve online is lacking something really important its the ability to promote eve related services in the game without any external tools.marketing & merchandising are a really important part of a capitalist economy.( i won't argue about that ingame store idea that you threw away to never be seen again )eve online player business lack of singularity in my opinion , the only singularity is portrayed by the way you treat your customers, we need more tools to give ingame business a visual identityi think ccp should develop the mechanics to allow us to advertise and promote eve online related player services & endeavor in stations ( and maybe in the far future directly in space * billboards ?* )"
"i would like to see bounty hunter ads, not to mention a better bounty system like jesus how long is this gonna take?"
"exellent idea.supported +1"
"i'm all for ui enhancements"
"it's not a new proposal, as someone already pointed out, but it still needs to be implemented."
"great idea, it would save newbies from the hassle of learning what item is best without checking each one. for some items (like capacitor rechargers) this becomes more difficult because of the amount of items that exist without a meta level."
"yes"
"shouldn't be impossibly difficult."
"updated my original post with the url. feel free to check it out and give me any constructive criticism. it is not without it's problems, but it seems to take care of a lot of the most common gripes about poses in one fell swoop."
"as i understand the argument, this is not an effort to \"boost low sec\" but is rather a debate that is separate from the whole lowsec problem. i believe the people pushing for this change are primarily traders who want a new opportunity to specialize in their professions.i don't see this proposal as punishing carebears either> i am curious to know how many people actually use the inter-empire highways. probably not too many outside the afk autopilot traders.i support this proposal for the reasons stated in th op as well as for the reasons stated in the new thread in general discussion on the topic."
"so you're saying that if an argument is made on merits of one idea that just happens to benefit another idea you can/will ignore this supposed coincidence because the merits of the first idea are absolute and incapable of being corrupted/misused to frame change that otherwise would be less appealing if presented by itself? furthermore the fact that the 'unintended consequences' of the first idea have no merit because that isn't what the person/people arguing for it want you to look at? feel free to send someone any amount of isk so the can triple it, pay no attention to the fact that people who say that just take your isk and never give it back, just listen to what i'm saying about them tripling your isk cause that is all that is important the other thing isn't, so stop talking about it or thinking about it in regards to you giving someone your isk to triple."
"if the issue is the desire for more opportunities for budding industrialists, might i suggest that scarcity or disparity of resources is the mother of trade.it makes no sense to me that someone in caldari space has access to republic security services loyalty point stores, for example. it makes no sense to me that a station no different to any other in the game hosts 50% of all trade.to increase the scarcity of resources, limit lp stores to stations in their own faction's space (hisec or lowsec, doesn't matter).to increase the opportunities for new traders, limit the number of trades that can be hosted at any one station, both by number of trade slots (or \"hangars\") and by total volume of items (per hangar, and per station). stations designed for logistics would have greater market capacity, while stations designed for assembly will have greater manufacturing capacity. thus jita 4-4 would be a good place to build things, while jita 4-6 would be a good place to sell things.logistics & storage stations would be ideal for large markets, assembly plants would be better manufacturing centres, refineries would have the higher quality refineries - no more absurd situation of navy stations having the 50% refineries, while the mining corporation refinery stations have 35% refineries.furthermore to add the feeling of \"space is big\", give star gates a limit as to how much tonnage they can move per hour. a system gate might be able to squeeze through a few dozen battleships per hour, a constellation gate might be able to handle double that, a region gate double that again, and a border gate double again. trim these values so that the current volume of traffic through niarja/sivala cannot be sustained - why would a system gate (perimeter-jita) be able to sustain the same flow of traffic as a border gate?the market for hisec-hisec wormholes will be created, and there will be further opportunity for those stargates in various missions to become useful for something (secret gates to connect to other empire space) :)we would need some way of controlling traffic through stargates, such as pilots contacting gate control and being given a window in which they may transit the gate: much the same as airports grant windows for aircraft to land/takeoff. perhaps the time-constraint could be replaced with transit fees, which are charged in terms of isk per unit weight, calculated on an exponentially rising scale based on the volume of gate traffic compared to the design limits of a certain gate type.given these restrictions - stations being functionally different based on design purpose, combined with star gates being functionally different based on design purpose - i would expect trade hubs to shift closer to border or regional gates.there could be mechanisms in-game for stargates to be upgraded over time. the entity controlling certain space could procure gate upgrades which are then applied to a stargate over a period of days (or weeks?). enemies could use repurposed sbus to downgrade a stargate, effectively interdicting travel through that gate.faction warfare militias become the entity responsible for \"maintenance\" of gates in empire space. they would be responsible for both upgrading gates in their space, and disrupting gates in enemy space. a focussed militia could, for example, upgrade all the gates between colelie, dodixie and sivala in order to provide a high throughput corridor in hisec and increase volume of trade. alternately they could disrupt all gates leading into jita or amarr in order to break those markets.this would give industrial alliances a reason to sponsor faction warfare, and give faction warfare a meaningful way of impacting upon the simulated universe of eve."
"not supported.removing the high security links between empires will result in even more individual players and corporations move their operations into the already overcrowded caldari space. they will not run the low security routes; they will just pack up, move once, and settle back down somewhere they can get to jita in relative safety. amarr, dodixie, and rens/hek markets will crash and the three related empires will be shadows of their former selves that slowly bleed what little population that stick around to caldari space as those people eventually realize that without the population to buy and sell to and from that there is no recovery."
"this ^^"
"i was going to post the same thing. i think this idea would not achieve the op's goal of spreading people out - quite the opposite. on the other hand, if there were still highsec routes between hubs, but it took longer to travel that way or there were other significant costs / barriers to entry (tariffs / tolls, for example), we might see some more varied markets spring up."
"supported"
"so your idea is that to make the eve cluster feel larger you need to shrink the space people can use?no thanks.especially the part about limiting the tonnage moved by system gates to a few dozen battleships/hour. just to point it up: 1 battleship is about 100 mil tons, 1 freighter about 900 mil tons, so what is your \"bright\" idea, 4 freighter moving minerals in or out of a system and it is locked for an hour? a few mission runners doing missions outside a system and it get locked, blocking other people play for an hour?pirates jumping several times in succession through all the gates save one of a system to lock them so that when a target enter the system it can't leave?miners doing the same to all the gates to lock a system and mine in peace?0.0 subcapital fleets not moving around?0.0 denizens locking all the gates of a cynojammed system?think about the effects of your proposal."
"supported"
"not supported, why should we sunder the 'verse for a select few player's profit and enjoyment, your 'inter-regional / inter-empire trader' and lowsec pirates?"
"i like this idea on one condition: there must be several gates through low sec that can get you to the other side. if there were only 2 or three between each empire space they would forever be camped by smart bombing mouthbreathers. another option would be to allow a high sec path but have that path require an additional 30 jumps or so. i think on the whole it would definitely add to the trade aspect of the game and it would also make the different factions more defined. as far as rp it would be much better."
"k so, i propose this to reduce big napfests, and in the process, possibly even some lag.edited to form a more clear idea in the opcharge sov holding alliances 1m isk per character on each side of the nap a month to hold blue standings with each other. if sov alliance a (500 members) wants to blue sov alliance b (1000 members) both alliances would pay 1.5b a month for that standing. if sov alliance a wants to blue sov alliance c (1500 members) sov alliance a would be paying 3.5b a month to hold standings with both, sov alliance c would be paying 2b a month to hold standings with alliance a.if hisec corp a wants to blue hisec corp b, and neither hold any sov, there is no fee. the reason they wouldnt be able to use third party programs to not shoot each other effectively, jump bridge routs, docking rights, easy gang finding, would become impossible for the other alliance that doesnt hold the jump bridge or outpost.yes some alliances would be able to afford their nap trains, but thats alot of isk their paying monthly, which would probably mean less super caps, and there would be much more small/medium gang fights, you know, the fights our beloved tq can actually handle, not the 1500 man ones that make us all cry on the forums and yell at our ccp overlords.discuss"
"umm... what?you do realize that \"blue\" means they're on each others friends list, basically.so you want us to pay a fee for having friends?is that what you're saying?how about we charge people for making new threads on the forums?the first 10 people to reply, get to decide whether it was a good post or bad. if it's good, you get a discount. if it's bad, you get charged extra."
"yes, a fee for having friends outside your corp/allianceits the same thing as the monthly alliance fee, just more expensive.think of all the major alliances with 2000+ members, they bring 500 man fleets because of all their pets / allies. make their pets / allies pay 2bil + however many members they have every month, it gets expensive.reduce blobbing and massive 1000 man battles the server cant support anyhow."
"your idea is generally horrible and as an icing on the cake it doesn't even solve the percieved problem of nap fests. this is a multiplayer sandbox game, so you want to encourage people to work in groups and don't want to put artificial limits on their actions, if you can avoid it. there is also the issue, that if you force this kind of a mechanism against the players, people will just use out of game methods to achieve the same thing. basicly your idea would just make a huge number of players ****ed at ccp for reducing the sandbox and intentionally making the game worse at a time when the game has dozens of real problems that could use some dev love. you also force alliances to handle relations primarily out of game for no benefit for anyone."
"while naps need to be dealt with, this isn't it."
"oh no don't charge alliances that make 80b + per month an extra 200m! this will surely break naps!actually this will just make no one want to blue new names in 0.0 because they wont be worth it."
"musical fist? is that you?"
"lol your whole \"coalition\" is fail... your idea is fail... hey i have an idea... scout local... dont jump in when there are neuts/reds/questionable blues in local..."
"i also have a useful suggestion for this post other than my scouting suggestion. \"super point\" pos module: *150 mil shield hp, 150 mil armor hp, 150 mil structure hp.*100km point range.*500 mil isk a day operating cost. (that should be a small price for all the sov whoring, moon goo whoring and 90% carebears in our alliance alliances to pay for \"a super capital kill\")*120 minute onlining time."
"just another member of our fail coalition supporting, nothing to see here, move along...."
"marlona hates the idea. thats a good enough reason to support it ;)"
"stealth nc whine thread detected."
"yeah... no. supers are meant for killing caps and used for killing towers. tbh i think if a person is stupid enough to have a jump freighter or capital by a pos without the proper precautions, they need to learn a lesson. this would just make some people scared to use supers again like the old days. i don't know why, but it would."
"let us 'ignore' characters posts on the forums, and in doing so, they would not appear in threads while we are logged in, nor would their created threads appear to us or be available to view.likewise, link the forum ignore feature to the ingame block list if possible, please?"
"supporting my own idea, obviously."
"/thumbs up anything for the tea cup kitten! <3/flees"
"a good idea, nice and simple, and if ccp really is rebuilding the forum architecture like they've said they want to do, this would be a really nice nifty little feature to work in.supported."
"would like to also be able to filter by character age (as it's public info)would be nice to have a little more control over alt posting at the same time."
"no control over what mission you get, it will randomly choose a bounty for you based on your sec status and the amount of bounty the target has on them."
"make the wardec fee escalate when you wardec the same corporation multiple times in a short timeframe (3-4 months). this will make life for griefers harder, and regular wardecs will not be affected. as a bonus, it encourages corps to live through the wardec or fight back instead of abandoning corp and reforming - wardecing the new corp would only cost the initial amount.not that i care about wardecs anyway... you are not supposed to be \"safe\" in empire, by design."
"1) balancing risk vs reward would reduce the amount of griefer corps. there simply aren't enough targets in lowsec (unless you gatecamp, which is boring) and the targets that are there usually aren't very juicy. pirates usually end up fighting other pirates, which is lame.make it so that rats that are in highsec, regardless of pve difficulty, automatically give half or less of the bounty as rats in lowsec and nerf highsec lp payout.pirates/\"pirates\" go where the targets are. that's why there's so many griefer corps in highsec.that being said, it doesn't hurt to allow corporations who get decced to bring in another corp to fight the aggressor corp for free. right now it's too easy for griefers to dec themselves with alt corps so that mercs can't get involved because of the three-dec limit, but i don't think most griefer corps do that anyway.2) stronger gateguns would reduce the one true form of piracy that is common in lowsec: gatecamping.however, nerfing infinipoints in lowsec so that they only work on capital ships would make running through lowsec gates a bit more fair for people who don't have covert ops industrials. another good change would be to create more lowsec entry points. coupling this with removing the highsec inter-empire superhighways would bring more targets to lowsec but also make lowsec less dangerous and therefore more profitable."
"my personal suggestion:1. make wardecs a bidding war, one side can pay to dec, the other side can pay to invalidate. equal costs (or perhaps less on the defender side). potential penalty for deccing smaller corps than yours (though this probably wouldn't adversly affect the hisec deccers as their corps are often smaller than the ones they dec, that's fine).2. gate guns have not kept pace with ship toughness, they should not be tankable. lowsec pvp is for belts, mission sites, exploration sites, etc. leave the gate and station games for 0.0, except for those who want to try to snipe >150km at lowsec gates. lowsec needs a lot more help to get people into it though."
"i like this idea."
"not signed, the people in eve have ruined this source of profit by hoarding too much materials with several characters at once.alts broke pi, if this change went through everyone would have all three of their characters doing this **** constantly making the materials that you yield worthless because of the amount being harvested. anyone that just uses one account would get yet another setback in eve.i propose you limit this system to one character per account like skill training, then i would approve of this change."
"the obvious flaw in this silly line of thinking is assuming everyone in eve is participating in pi. this isn't the case. sorry to burst your bubble.supply is currently not meeting the demand. many players bought out the npcs stock and are actively reselling at massive profits which is currently sustaining the market, but how long do you think that'll last? their stock is finite and when they run out it will be entirely dependent on players like us to fill the market.there are not enough players participating in pi to sustain the demand, plain and simple."
"you can do any harvesting/pvp/pve activity with multiple accounts, the only difference with pi is you are the only one who can access your base (until they make command centers network or link up for example). if it is pilots working together or one man running a few accounts together the result is the same.pi cannot possibly be broken in the way you suggest if the demand for materials is still so high, however i agree that the change i propose is likely to make it atractive to many people that are put off by the current system as it stands. this will inevitably affect market value, and make it tougher or more competative at least to sell.if it was implemented as you say so that only one character can run pi per account, it would still be an improvement, if limited....however i think it would be a pointless nerf. mostly because pi can pay for seperate new accounts as has allready been said above. the only people to benefit would be ccp who get extra subscriptions."
"thank you for your support miles :)"
"supportedbut only with ion blasters.we all know ion blasters can disrupt ship propulsion.see \"battle of hoth\""
"come on, try to obfuscate your altyness even a little. also, not supported.also, star wars isn't eve, and a good thing it is, have you seen storm troopers with blasters? that's a -1 rad tracking!"
"wow... just... wow..."
"oh ok then, ill tale my shield extender somewhere else"
"instead of the insurance company giving you a mail and a rookie ship every time you dock in a station with a pod, how about a station service that requests a rookie ship from the insurance company?this is very annoying especially when i'm just going around picking skills up."
"trash it. and go around in a shuttle, not a pod."
"if you want a free rookie ship just leave your station and dock in another station where you have no ship. it's practicly as simple as hitting a button. you don't even have to leave system usually. as the man said a shuttle is faster and better by far especially for skill shopping....no vote from me"
"seeing invention success failure messages 1000 times gets a bit old.give us a tick box to turn them off."
"this is where your falcon fleet comes in useful.1) wt gets neutral reppers on him2) he aggresses thinking he'll be fine3) throw 5 falcons into the mix4) all logi's jammed5) wt killed6) ???7) profit!!!"
"cry more?not supported."
"this is already the case. the problem is if the fight is on a station, which they frequently are, then the neutral reps can dock instantly without waiting for the 60 second aggression timer. the only way to counter neutral rr is with lots of ecm, which i find irritating and unbalanced. why should a neutral player have more effect on a fight than myself or the person i'm at war with?edit: supported."
"only problem with neutral rr is that it gets no timer for redocking/jumping through a gate."
"why, it's so simple, even a caveman could do it!2 ships are fighting.a 3rd ship approaches, and targets ship a to begin rr.servers begin querying- is this ship attempting to provide rr?- is this ship associated with either of the combatants?- do any of the ships involved have aggro timers pending?- do any of the ships involved have a war dec in progress?- are either of the combatants using what would otherwise be considered a spider tanking fit?- is this fight taking place in high sec?- did any of the pilots involved stay at a holiday inn express last night?seriously, it's so simple!"
"pls ccp listen us! add a sound system.../signed"
"+1 for chribba, you are awesome this guy is basicly a god of eve. last time someone wardecced him, half of the capsuleers responded with wardeccing the antichribbians. even the carebears! so once 2 in every 3 people in local had a red star next to thier f"
"only for chribba? how about every 3rd party /me calls dibs on red."
"dear csm members,you can take a break and make some paper planes with the meeting minutes.ccp answered not here but in the media and without your review in my understanding..."
"from what i hear though it is very easy to make a lot of isk from ratting in your capital or at least enough to seem big for a mear pvper.it would be nice to see a article talking about the economic impact of pi introduction. i have noticed how it has made things cost a lot more on the pos fuel and t2 production lines. it would also be nice for the devs to lay out some of there longer term ideas for pi. personally i wouldn't be surprised if something that they put in soon would take part in t3 production as such t2 is about moon goo. i do say though i really enjoy reading the quorate economic report very good read for those long nights of mining."
"thanks for the response mynxee.i wasn't really concerned with which topics end up being raised by csm, but rather the *reasons* csm provides for voting in favor or against something. but since you mention issues that have been raised in the past, i do not think that should be a bar to re-raising an issue. perhaps a csm would get voted out because they passed something - or failed to pass something. there are other reasons why a csm should be able to undue past csm votes. as far as \"how much\" people care about particular issues i do not think we have any sort of accuarate guage for that. but your assumption certainly seems reasonable."
