"/signedgreat suggestions here."
"so which other sniperhac has an optimal range of 145km? 80km is mid range for an eagle.don't bother with ad hominem crap. present some proper counter arguments.your absolutely right about eve not being a long range tickling contest. as such there is little point in comparing damage at ranges beyond optimal+falloff where damage is below 40% of base dps. a more reasonable comparison is optimal+1/2 falloff where damage is still at 80% of base dps. for that, the rokh has a range of 210km to the apoc's 175km.you have done a wonderful job comparing the raw damage output, but i don't think that will be enough to get ccp to change anything. if you look at the effect armour resistance have on the effective damage from these two ships, the size of advantage is greatly decreased. the driving reason for the last change to the apoc's specs was because of the significance of armour tanking, so you will have a hard time getting ccp to buy into any comparison of rails and lasers without factoring for resistances.the rokh's 320 dps becomes 224 against armour, while the apoc's 400 becomes 222.5. now the difference doesn't appear to be too much as far as damage goes. against shields the apoc has a decisive advantage over the rokh with 370 dps verses the rohk's 224 dps. if a rohk is going to face off against an apoc, it needs to do so well past the apoc's ideal range of 175km. however, it would appear that the rohk has the range to do so, it is just a matter of seeing who can control the situation better.you might get the csm to take the railgun balancing issue to ccp, but you will probably need to give them more to go on if they are going to get ccp to act on it.edit:here is another problem with a 15% boost to railgun damage. compare these two partial setups:[abaddon, tach]3 x heat sink ii8 x tachyon beam laser ii, aurora l1 x large ancillary current router iidps against armour = 279.12625available pg = 484.5optimal + falloff = 119 + 25[abaddon, rail]3 x magnetic field stabilizer ii8 x 425mm railgun ii, spike l1 x large hybrid collision accelerator iidps against armour = 277.4835available pg = 6,402optimal + falloff = 130 + 30"
"apoc should fairly easily able to get to 230km (optimal) with tachs, not sure where the idea that they'd be limited to 175km came from but they certainly shouldn't be with any decent fit. for raw damage at least the rokh's advantage is pushed out right to the lock limit. your point about average resistances is a good one though and admittedly not one i'd considered however getting close to -double- damage on shield targets should come at some cost. indeed if we're pegging rails as doing equal damage to both armor and shields it makes perfect sense for them to do more against armor then lasers do, assuming the same range. now of course the rokh does get better range but somehow i don't think that'll make the shield tanked rokh much happier that he's getting hit nearly twice as hard as he's dealing. it might make sense for the increase in damage to be toned down to 10-15% instead, still leaving a very heavy bonus for lasers hitting shields, but at least getting a mild advantage hitting armor. averaged out though rails do the exact same damage to armor as they do shields, essentially just leaving it will really poor damage in all circumstances.weighting armor as counting for 3 times as much as armor a 15% increase in damage for rails would still bring the average damage to just about even thanks to how much harder it hits the one shield tanked target the 15% advantage at hitting armor ends up being fairly equal to the 42% advantage lasers have against shields.if we're going to have a game where different weapons do better or worse against armor and shields then the weapon that does equal damage to both shields and armor should preform better then the poor preformer vs. armor instead of simply being able to tie laser's poor armor damage while suffering incredibly against shields."
"i see. brilliant argument. fit railguns to an abaddon. i will certainly be taking your advise for w/s balance from now on, sir. you seem to know exactly what you are talking about... especially about the bolded part where you demonstrate your excellent knowledge of fleet engagement envelope.please try to understand. when i am talking about railgun rebalancing, i refer to the engagement envelope of the ships that use them, not an in vitro comparison of the turrets.furthermore, i am talking about these ships in the context of pvp. let me offer this piece of advise gained from experience in 0.0 after a few years of roaming in curse, catch and providence and quite a few large and small scale engagements.1) sniperhacs engage @ 70-100kms. fleet bs (snipers) engage @ 170-200kms. if you are going to compare ships and turrets, you should first look at them at those ranges.2) when sh*t hits the fan, the enemy gang is on you or you are going balls deep, you load shortest range/ highest damage ammo and tracking speed/ scan resolution scripts and slug it out. therefore, that is your secondary scenario to be examined.3) fleet support bcs need to be able to hit @70kms with max damage in order to be able to protect the fleet bs.4) if you are flying t1 cruisers, you need to be able to reach 70km. if you can't, fly a ceptor, you'll be better off in it and you'll get a few more kms on gates.if you still are failing to understand the logic for these proposals and call my arguments ad hominems, you need to either stop taking those drugs, or ask your doctor to increase the dosage. now, please use your vast experience to blind us with your unassailable arguments about sniperhac ranges and r(f)ailfitted abaddons.protip: fitting t2 rigs on fleet bs = throwing isk awayfake edit: t2 rigs!! oh, you are talking about pve, aren't you?"
"supporting the topic with a few reservations; wish the op had taken the time to state a case rather than simply demanding a boost and pointing to a lengthy thread as justification.edit: forgot to check the box"
"you haven't been playing very long or are you also trolling using an alt? have you forgetten the good old days when it was better to fit projectiles on amarr ships? some of us still remember when the bonuses to laser damage didn't mean anything. i would like to see those bonuses remain useful. but then what do you know, your character didn't even exist back then."
"well...the same could be answered to you, ki tarra. during the first stages of eve, gallente were horribly overpowered. ask to your senior fellows, they will confirm that. look now in what we have turned into. what i can say is that following three years flying exclusively gallente, and under its actual condition, once i discovered the beauty of amarr and minnie weaponry i don't even think to fly it again. rails sux, blasters are too short-ranged and drones are a pain in the arse if you have to combat on long-range fleets."
"i can see that hybrids are currently underwelming, but the solution is not to break game balance and return them to fotm.ccp has told the csm that players don't need to provide solutions, they just need to raise issues. it would appear that more often than not, player suggested solutions are broken when it comes to balance.if there was a proposal for the balancing team to take a fresh look at rails/blasters, i would be all for it. lasers got their major rebalancing back in 2008, and projectiles got theirs in 2009. it is time for hybrids to be looked at too.however, a 15% or 20% damage boost across the board would break more than it would fix, as such i cannot support this proposal."
"i can see that hybrids are currently underwelming, but the solution is not to break game balance and return them to fotm.ccp has told the csm that players don't need to provide solutions, they just need to raise issues. it would appear that more often than not, player suggested solutions are broken when it comes to balance.if there was a proposal for the balancing team to take a fresh look at rails/blasters, i would be all for it. lasers got their major rebalancing back in 2008, and projectiles got theirs in 2009. it is time for hybrids to be looked at too.however, a 15% or 20% damage boost across the board would break more than it would fix, as such i cannot support this proposal.i did not do the maths to check exactly if that 15% or 20% is too much or not. probably you are right.at the end it is not my intention to say the magical number to solve this question. that is why we pay to ccp, they should do that.what it is obvious is that they badly need a general re-balance."
"it looks like a lot of people are replying to this topic before learning about the issue. responses to a few i caught:locking range maxes at 250km. all of these ships have no problem reaching over 200km optimal when they are fitted (falloff gets them to max range). the issue is that stacking penalties mean that 2-3 damage mods, which all sniper bss fit (who aren't failfit), function as a uniform percentage increase to damage for all guns. because this is a percentage increase, this means that the difference in damage only increases.let me quote the important line you seem to have missed: ... and this is not even taking into account the cap issue. the point is that a few minmatar ships will alpha strike destroy a battleship. that is a huge bonus over rails (which have crap alpha and dps).i'm laughing. check the bonuses caldari ships have before typing please.no. a 15% damage bonus and their alpha would still remain less than any other ship. a 15% damage bonus and caldari would still have less alpha and dps than any other ship. this is simply how drastic the difference is currently. fit 2-3 damage mods and the difference becomes even more apparent. this is patently false. each of those guns have almost the same mid-range with short range ammo. seriously unbalance? err... the fact that rails could get a 15% increase in damage and still have less alpha than other guns (and the dps doesn't get very exciting either) shows the guns are not balanced right now. that is the point.sure, let's not ask for a specific increase. let's just say \"this is horribly unbalanced, please fix it.\""
"can you please share your 200km optimal range abaddon, armageddon, maelstrom and/or tempest setups?"
"true, this is not the character i had in beta. yes, i spend a few years away from the game.but at least this character undocks and fights. i didn't see anything of importance in yours.so, let us leave this faceless alt/ troll bang the bars of it's cage and move on to discuss the matter at hand.i agree that the +15% is a rough estimate of where railgun dps should end up and it is a compromise reached through consensus. that applies to the +10% pg increase as well. i felt that it would be too tedious to reiterate a 20+ page threadnaught, but in the end i did offer numbers based on my experience. i have stated repeatedly that i use data from my own engagements and fits as far as hacs go, while relying on my alliance's data for bses.i have stated the scenarios that these ships are used in and i am asking for a balance such that the ships operate using the intended w/s for each one and being not equal, one and the same, but comparable to each other."
"i was wrong about optimal. two tracking computers and two gyros is standard fare on a minmatar ship. three tracking enhancers and two heat sinks for amarr (an apoc gets 1 enhancer and 3 heat sinks). two tracking enhancers and two mags are good fits for a gallente ship. fleet fits for rohks usually have 3 mags and a tracking computer.however, as i alluded to, damage is touched by the golden thumb of compounded interest when we start talking about fittings.so to compare fit ships, we are looking at this:armageddon+tachyon = 60dps, 327alpha, .00544, 168+48kmapocalypse+tachyon = 50dps, 345alpha, .00476, 188+32kmabbadon+tachyon = 56dps, 408alpha, .00544, 168+48kmrokh+425mm = 40dps, 211alpha, .00346, 209+35kmdominix+425mm = 45dps, 250alpha, .00356, 168+49kmmegathron+425mm = 45dps, 250alpha, .0049, 168+49kmhyperion+425mm = 45dps, 250alpha, .00356, 168+49kmtyphoon+1400mm = 44dps, 775alpha, .00281, 140+72kmtempest+1400mm = 55dps, 968alpha, .00281, 140+72kmmaelstrom+1400mm = 44dps, 775alpha, .00281, 140+72kmto compare apples to apples, here's the per gun (fully fit) dps/alpha firing on a bs @ 200km (many thanks to eft!):armageddon+tachyon = 37dps/202alphaapocalypse+tachyon = 43dps/297alphaabbadon+tachyon = 35dps/255alpharokh+425mm = 41dps/216alphadominix+425mm = 29dps/161alphamegathron+425mm = 29dps/161alphahyperion+425mm = 29dps/161alphatyphoon+1400mm = 22dps/388alphatempest+1400mm = 28dps/493alphamaelstrom+1400mm = 22dps/388alphaand here we find that the rokh (supposed king of long range) is actually... not (the one thing it is supposed to be good at). gallente just look pathetic across the board still. minmatar continue to have stunning alpha, but their dps drops to the bottom of the barrel at this range.with a 15% damage boost, the railgun boats would look like this:rokh+425mm = 47dps/248alphadominix+425mm = 33dps/185alphamegathron+425mm = 33dps/185alphahyperion+425mm = 33dps/185alphathis would finally give the rokh something that it is good at (dps at silly range, still trumped by all of minmatar and two amarr ships with alpha) and gallente would simply not suck so bad. please note that the rokh's dps would be the only thing that changes if you are ranking the ships."
"there is one thing you should just get right now. if the tempest doesn't get any powergrid boost, like it really need, then you can just forget to get a powergid boost right here and now on any ships from caldari.it's not that i'm against a powergrid boost on some of the caldari ship, it's just that if the tempest doesn't get a powergrid boost, no other ships will get it from caldari."
"honestly, i could care less about a powergrid boost for any ships. they seem to all have appropriate fitting numbers for me."
"this looks like a good fitting start, what about targeting range? there is no point have 150km+ optimal ranges if you can't get a target lock.are we comparing glass cannons, or should these ships be able to fit any sort of buffer tank?i would like to make sure that we are comparing them all on reasonably equal footing."
"they all can lock at 200+km with lvl 5 skills and gang bonus. they all have a reasonable buffer tank (no glass cannons). all have mwd. all are rigged. all (but the rokh) are blessed with armor tanks. they are what you will find for most alliance (suggested/mandatory) sniper bs fittings."
"i have not been able to replicate setups that meet your description, can you share the full setups you are using for your comparison?"
"please tell me which specifically you are referring to. we're talking about 10 different ships here."
"i wonder why. any 0.0 alliance worth it's salt has pretty much the same standard fits available for their pilots. oh wait... anyway. i believe it would be more prudent when we compare fleet bs, that we use the unrigged versions. rokh is already 130mil, i see no reason to fit another 50 in rigs for fleet engagements, since there is no mass dd anymore."
"you edited out your link. but anyways, i am still looking for your abaddon and armageddon snipper setups. lets start with just the two for now. oh what???i can't figure out what the fits are because i am not in 0.0 alliance or there is no way to fit an abaddon or armageddon so that it has three tracking enhancers, two heat sinks, a mwd, a buffer tank and can lock at 200+km? which is your meaning?"
"the damage changes are more important than the +pg changes, but whatever, i'm not going to let the good suggestion become the enemy of the great suggestion."
"tachyon apocalypse3x heat sink ii2x tracking enhancer ii2x capacitor power relay iitracking computer ii, optimal range100mn digital booster rockets2x sensor booster ii, targeting range8x tachyon beam laser ii, aurora l2x large ancillary current router ilarge ionic field projector irokh3x magnetic field stabilizer iitracking enhancer iicapacitor power relay ii100mn digital booster rocketstracking computer ii, optimal rangecap recharger ii2x sensor booster ii, targeting range[empty mid slot]8x 425mm railgun ii, spike llarge ancillary current router ilarge capacitor control circuit i[empty rig slot]this is how i fit the primary contenders we're comparing here, both setups focused entirely on making their guns preform their best. the rokh's a bit of an oddball one since the cap producing mods as well as the rigs can be rearranged quite a bit to allow for better sustainability, more tank or whatever you'd like, it's much less focused then the apoc. now this isn't an omission on my part and an effort to make the rokh look bad so much as it's guns reaching 253km at which point further efforts to focus it's role on damage at range will be entirely futile or running up against the 4th spack-nerf. optimized for more range with the spare mid and rig and you'll be around 274km, a range advantage i'd be perfectly content with at the current damage figures if not for the lock limit. in short the rokh is balanced for a range of combat that dosen't exist.now since the net effect of the rokh's ease of getting to 249 is a mod bonus some would point out that this is nicely balanced against the damage bonus the apoc gets however that misses a key point, it's a shield tank.if, as previous posters have suggested, we should weight the armor tank as being more important and an advantage due to attempts to unify fleet composition in 0.0 then it should also cut in the rokh's favor as well as against it. so if the rokh must deal with 278dps on it's bonused shield resists (370dps without the rokh's resist bonus) because damage is balanced with a strong focus on armor which lasers are poor at dealing with then a fitting bonus balances fairly well with having to shield tank in an armor rr gang, after all they'll probably be needing it.since survivability balances out in an asymetrical if even manner that leads us back to the primary purpose, the reason to bring the ship in the first place, damage at range. right now the rokh dosen't have the damage to compete with other ships in viable ranges, since a change to the lock limit is highly unlikly something should be done to grant the rokh some sort of ability to compete for damage at some range that isn't beyond the lock limit. the other alternative to a damage boost is to change t2 ammo* dramatically so that if a rokh steps down to use a shorter ranged ammo it dosen't have to go all the way to thorium to get an increase in damage. if these alternatives seem more likly to happen or more reasonable by all means pursue them but something should be done to restore the rokh to the premiere sniper alongside the apoc, it may well help balance out the prevelence of armor rr vs shield rr a bit as well if lucky.*for long-ranged t2 ammo a 20% reduction in damage would still leave it better damage then dg iron or db radio with the range bonus, removing the tracking penalty might also be in order"
"how much do you pay for your setup? a quick check of current contracts show that there are currently two available on the market at a price of 300mil each."
"most fleet fits use quads. some fleet fits i've seen require a 1% or 3% cpu implant.i ditched the link because i decided against linking stuff from my alliance. prefer to stay in the reasonably good graces of the big guy. as to the geddon and baddon, my guess is you don't have rr on them? the alliances i've been in are strong believers of rr bs. the geddon needs a 1% cpu implant but the baddon doesn't need any implants. the geddon is an ugly fit, but (just like a raven, scorpion, phoon, and domi) it isn't meant to be a ship-of-the-sniper-line."
"not supported.caldari ships are already good enough. i feel that the balance between races never been as balanced as it is atm. the only thing caldari needs is a rocket buff. thats it."
"that is a fair reason for taking down the link. as for the geddon and baddon setups, your link did not provide tachyon setups, just pulse laser setups.i would still like to see armageddon and abaddon setups that meet the criteria you set earlier in the thread: three tracking enhancers, two heat sinks, a mwd, a buffer tank and can lock at 200+km. if you cannot provide setups that meet that criteria, please feel free to make adjustments as needed to the criteria and share what you believe to be an acceptable ship-of-the-sniper-line setup for these ships."
"why are you trying to use abaddon as a comparison to rokh?the natural fleet sniper bs is the apocalypse. that is the ship you should compare to the rokh. furthermore, using tachyons in a fleet sniper is not the best idea. the turrets equivalent to 425mms are mega beam lasers and they are fully capable of reaching 200kms on an apoc.if you don't know the fit, look around in large alliance kbs (those that are public at least) and you will see a lot of the variations that are around.the fact remains though that if you compare a lvl 5 apoc vs a lvl 5 rokh, and if the two ships are fitted as close as possible, with 3x damage modifier each, then you will see that the apocalypse does 1.16 the damage of the rokh, both @ 193-194 kms optimal (t2 ammo). the apocalypse will also have better cap stability (by 30+ secs) and a bigger buffer (14.5k armor vs 13.9k shield). if we want these 2 ships to perform roughly equally, the 15% damage increase to the rokh is absolutely necessary."
"extra support! not just for a smaller local, but especially for public / intel channels.surely it presents less load on the server, too!"
"i would really really like this! make things much easier and make channel lists usable!"
"provarocate all you want.mini get 33% more dps at level 5 hull trainingamarr get 33% more dps at level 5 hull traininggal get 25% more dps ( blasters ) and 50% more dps ( drones ) at level 5 hull trainingcaldari get 8% more dps at level 5 hull traininghow can you say that that ^^ is not broken ?8% extra dps for caldari missile boats when everyone else is gettin 33% or ( 25 - 50 )%"
"counting dps only is a vision from 1 side. look at dps graph in eft. compare turret ship and missile ship. close range turrets have their \"incredible\" extra dps with tiny optimal. you will see significant reducing dps after optimal. missiles have guaranteed extra dps.p.s. see blasters optimal+falloff range. see distance of peak blasters dps."
"were not counting dps.were counting the delta in the dps between lvl 0 and lvl5, hence the terms more dps at level 5i dont have eft but i'm pretty sure if you do the graphs for different hull skill levels you will see that for hybrids/laser/drones/proj the graph grows on the y ? axis by around 25%-33% for level 5 hull skills compared to level 0 hull skills.i dont know how eft handles the kin bonus in terms of dps, but if you set up for example a cara with 5 laucnhers 1em , 1exp , 1therm , 2kin and then compare dps graphs for lvl0 and lvl5 , you will see that the dps only grows by 8%."
"could you explain, why increase of dps such important balance factor?for example, amarr apocalypse battleship has 0% delta in the dps between lvl 0 and lvl5, therefor according to your logic it must by terrible ship. am i right?also let's not forget about prophecy, maller or punisher. 33% more dps at lvl 5 indeed"
"the geddon is the damage modded amarr bs not the poc , poc gets range iirc.not everyship in everyclass gets a damage bonus , and no one is suggesting that either.amarr damage modded ships generally get 5% rof = 33% more dps at lvl5.caldari damage modded ships generally get 5% kin = 8% more dps at lvl5.you seem to have picked out tank modded ships in your example in an attempt to disguise the issue or is it just oversight on your part ?"
"oh, so now other attributes are relevant, too. then i guess drake is tank modded ship too, and caracal/cerberus are range modded. by the way, apocalypse gets only 7.5% range bonus compared to 10% on everything else. so my point stands: according your logic it is terrible ship because other snipers get 10%.still at 33% there are exactly 2 t1 ships with rof bonus: omen and armageddon. there are more ships with dmg bonus or no bonus at all."
"which attributes? depends on the other attributes you wanna talk about i guess.range bonus on the apoc ?relevant to the kin bonus being a poor bonus ? no.relevant to the ability of the ship it sits on ? yes of course it is.i dont know if the poc is a good sniper or not , i never used one for that.i would say that obviosly as a sniper it does not skill up as well as the rohk for example."
"bolded the important part you've been ignoring all this time. kinetic bonus on ships like drake, caracal or cerberus is good bonus. combination of high count of missile bays, ability to change damage types, dealing high (and constant) damage at superior range than any other weapon system - they are already powerful at lvl1 or lvl5.your 8% argument is simply stupid. either use ammo with 25% bonus, or use other one when it's advantageous to you. still better than no ability to switch ammo dmg type at all (amarr, gallente) or weapons with serious range penalties (minmatar).but let's pretend the bonus itself (and completely unrelated to the ship) is truly \"weak\". what would you prefer to keep all ship in balance? couple of ideas, if you don't mind:1. nerf light/medium missile damage. add extra missile bay to sacrilege?2. remove missile bay from drake (works for raven with 1 less bay compared to 7-8 turret mounts on gunboat battleships), caracal (other tier 2 combat cruisers have only 4 turrets anyway) and remove the bonus from cerberus altogether (must have less damage than close range sacrilege)3. screw the balance. you want your uber drake/cerberus on matter what.4. better idea? humor me."
"i still wouldn't mind seeing missiles rebalanced to resemble drones.. each damage type missile has different damage/velocity/explosive velocity/ect.. just make the kinetics the most desirable one to use, as thermal drones are the most desirable for drone boats.. then let caldari ships have a freaking missile bonus for all missiles already."
"still don't see op getting changed like you claimed."
"*lil bump*"
"i really like where this is going, you've got some really good ideas there."
"let's call it security status rebalancemyself, i would suggest:1] high-sec is supposed to be npc superpowers controlled space, so let's make it this way. if you are on bad terms with npc superpower, you will not be allowed to enter the space and when you do, you will be shot on sight. if your security status drops bellow -1.0 you got banished from the \"empire\" to low sec. you cannot return back unless your security status at least 0 again, if you do you are shot on sight. if your security status drops while you are in high-sec, you will be asked to leave a.s.a.p (our low sec \"pirates\" will be happy to rejoin with similar minder brothers in empire and thus have plenty of targets to fire upon)if you destroy ship of other player in high-sec, concord destroyes your ship, you lose security standing and also charges you with prize of the ship you destroyed, suicidal ganking will disappear. player corp vs. player corp warfare is prohibited in high-sec, it's logical that's local superpower will not like fighting in their territory.2] low sec is criminal haven. add several criminal npc faction agents there, several empire agents to redeem your standing. most of the goods from the empire is not on the market (t2 a t3 equip) unless it is smuggled from empire. on reverse, you may smuggle drugs and pirate faction tech into the empire, this involves some npc agents too to pay you or make \"things legal\". ocasional raids destroyable npc ships to low sec. npc rats are friendly to you if you have enough standing with them, unless you attack them first. 3] 0.0 unchanged as it is - complete sandbox up to players to shape"
"some good ideas being thrown in here guys, some less practical/popular, but thats wht this is about.lets get outlaw noticed..any csm input please?"
"yes on reconnectno on rats not shooting drones... you should be carefull with them, that's punisment for forgetting them, and if you didnt forget but disconnected, whell there's a lot worse things that can happen on disconnect... and that's something we all live withi also agree no recconect after abandoning drones... you can still scoop them \"the old fashioned way\"also:maybe i'm wrong but i think i remember this was mentioned by ccp as \"comming soon\"(tm)"
"i support all drone related improvements!"
"when making the proposal, i hadn't considered abandoning drones. i agree that any abandoned drone is exactly that--it can't be reconnected to."
"oh please yes!either this, or make npc's not target drones when you get d/ced"
"i support it."
"this issue also affects people in 0.0 who dont have access to outpostsand in a very minor way also affects people in losec"
"make it so csm!"
"with the amount of shields on caps it will be useless even if they made it persistent across sessions. nope it wouldn't be - read up."
"finally this issue is raised. as a pilot who flys mainly caldari ships i see this is an imbalance that needs to be adressed. i am dumbfounded at the csm's inability to fully grasp this issue and how it effects people like me almost daily - its totally unfair.someone should propose the opposite topic to the csm: when armour tanking ships receive gang bonuses the total armour amount will be increased - however the extended hp will be in an unrepaired state. this change is necassary to bring armour tanking ships inline with shield tanking ships and render the bonus received totally useless."
"yes."
"nidia never uses ap"
"yes"
"definately supported"
"supported"
"supported."
"signed"
"supported"
"no.blasters are the issue, not gallente."
"supported!! please make this happen, where are the devs??"
"tl;dr the whole thread.anyway, back to the core of the question. i have a proposal for ccp: why don't you check how many gallente pilots, since a couple of years, are still sticking to gallente ships? once we became aware of how this game works, most of us quitted a long time ago about flying gallente."
"make it so"
"we need also ability to hide all star ssytems that do not belong to current region, or all star systems more then 20 jumps away. i don't whant to move camara to middle of goodspace upon misclick when i am looking at dodixie because there star system is somehwere in the background. i personally prefer a 3-dimentional starmap, ofcource 2d interpretations are simpler, but. let us also activate several filtering modes at once, for example bringthness of the star system would display amount of people in it, and the colour, from red to green, would display the amount of ships destroyed in past hour. then having a small lue dot next to it would meant there is a station in system. that would make usin the map easier."
"yeah, the map as it is now its just annoying."
"eve needs ui improvements all over the place, this is just a drop of water in an ocean"
"supported because as a \"newer\" player here my ability to make isk does not grow exponentially at the rate of the cost to upgrade my clone.i run lvl 4 missions a few hours a week to pvp for a few more hours a week. the amount of time i have to play eve is the only thing that effects how much isk i could make.i can see that at some point in the future loosing a pod is going to be a major influence on what i choose to do in eve.the more sp i have doesn't effect how much money i can make."
"reading comprehension fail.supporting this idea."
"stupid forum timer... grr!"
"hm, i didnt find a \"i dont like this idea\" button, that suxx a bit.anyways, i dont like this idea.when i started playing this game, the amounts that i have to pay for my clones (quite regulary) today where fantasy numbers, i could not have imagined to make a few million in a week.nowadays the clone isk are peanuts to me.dying should hurt, and not be softened.as a matter of fact, it should be raised a bit to reflect the changes on eve that made it quite easy to raise alot more money."
"just because the op want to fly fully insured t1 ships doesn't mean pvp should be risk free. keep the clone cost as it is. not supported."
"why should income grow exponentially when your clone cost doesn't go up at that rate? it goes up gradually, if your not making much more isk by the time you are at 30million sp than you were making at 10million sp than you are doing it wrong, increase the gap in sp and you are stuck in a rut isk wise. diversify, maximize you isk per hour, there are dozens of isk generating things to do in eve, stop training so many combat skills and train something that can make you isk. the more sp you have can effect how much isk you make but only if you have the foresight to do something about it. training every weapon and ship isn't going to help you increase the isk you make but somehow you 'need' those skills and wonder why you aren't making more isk as you sit there looking on hangars full of ships fitted with tech2 and faction modules right?"
"going with this, make an attempt to not get podded, this is not counterstrike in space."
"the clone cost really should eventually level out. a player with roughly 50m sp can have all subcap ships and supporting skills maxed for a race. just as you eventually max out skills, hourly income from game mechanics (ratting/mining/etc) eventually max out as well.so should the cost of clones. they shouldn't continue climbing for the sky.sure, you say, don't die, you say. the end game is 0.0. enormous \"battles\" occur in 0.0 sec - and almost everyone is involved in one of these battles on a somewhat regular basis. 0.0 sec (in case you haven't seen it recently) has some fleet lag issues. if the grid goes silly (happens regularly - you hear about it at least once a day), and you are unlucky enough to not load the grid for an hour and eventually get primaried, you are dead. invariably, some don't following commands from the fc to the letter and pop pods (assuming you actually load the grid eventually). so, you can come into a fight with pure uberness - ship, skills, implants - and without even seeing the field of battle, you wake up in a station.this effects players regardless of sp. cap the clone costs."
"you mean this isn't already in game =(100% support"
"/agree"
"hi all, i have a thread running in the fid forum link to threadpurpose: to create a working and less exploitable bounty system that is not so much designed to hurt pirates/gankers/griefers as it is to introduce a thrilling new career into the game for those who like to play the hunter.basic is concept is that \"bounty kill rights\" are obtained by bounty office agents (like other npc agents), when you start a conversation with these agents you are assigned say 3 random online targets within say 20 jumps. this is my 3rd attempt at a bounty system fix post and ppl seem to like it but it is not attracting anywhere near as much attention as really bad ideas on this topic are.... seems like the fid forum is only for slamming crap ideas and no feedback on potentially good ones hahahaha.one of the main topics in this debate include who can place a bounty... should u be able to place a bounty on anyone with negative sec status, or must you have kill rights on that person...please add a comment to the fid post linked above and if you like it please let the csm know about it right here!!!!!!!"
"like the idea, simple, and somewhat effectivei like some of the other more complex ideas better, but this is definitely an improvement over the current systemthere are some problems thoi wouldn't want to get 3 1000isk bounty contracts, so you need a well thought out system on how the contracts are distributed, also details on not completing the \"mission\", a lot of exploits have to be considered (some mentioned in the fid thread)... on second thought a lot of details missing from your proposal, but i still support the general idea... anything is better than what we have"
"i *really* like the sound of that."
"/signed and supportedthis is what is needed in the game, would actually make anti-pirate corps/alliances worthwhile also giving pirates some more action."
"this is kind of where i was going with the bounty agent level idea... bounty agents have levels 1-4 like other npc agents, the higher level agent you have access to, the bigger bounties you'll be hunting. maybe a minimum bounty placement of say 100k isk would be good? -this would affect your standing with the agent / the bounty office... your standing then impacts on what level agents you have access to.i have thought this through quite thoroughly but wanted to keep it simple for the forums haha- anything this else you are concerned about please ask away!!!"
"what about the exploit mentioned in fidi go into jita and start putting bounty on all freighter pilots... if 100k is the mimimum bounty i can get 100 freighter pilots with only 10mil... and then i just start accepting those \"missions\" and some of them will surely pop up soonedit: ... and since i placed a minimum bounty... i dont care about standings with agent, and just keep canceling missions untill i get one of my targetssetting a limit on sec status to place bounty is not a good solution i think.. i might get annoyed by a positive sec player... hmm ninja salvager comes to mind, and i cant place a bounty on him"
"give the contract a certain 'activation time', and the victim gets a mail notifying him that a bounty has been placed on his head (tho it shouldn't say by whom, or who accepted the contract)"
", <U+043D><U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+043E>!"
"now i didn't read the post... but i wantted to point out that your not supposed to be able to put a bounty on someone unless there sec rating is below -1 (not sure about this).if that was to be maintained... wouldn't be easy to exploit as most freighter pilots would obviously not risk it."
"a plain \"no\". - limiting the scope of potential victims to \"online\" and \"nearby\" would make the system prone to abuse, e.g. espionage, stalking, stuff. i guess, this is not in line with the op intention. - the bounty amount doesn't tell anything of the opponent, in opposite to traditional rats, so it will happen that you find yourself facing your victim in an absolutely wrong ship, making it (best case) close to impossible to even scratch your victim or (worst case) surprisingly seeing your pod in space, right where your ship just used to be. while this might be in line with the op intention, i doubt it'll make the bounty system more attractive to anyone. - additionally, bounty agents wouldn't be in line with the way the bounty system works. while you may \"freely\" (as long as the prey meets the requirements) put a bounty of any amount to anyones head and for whatever reason your imagination is capable of thinking, a bounty agent as it is proposed would provide you with a well sorted list.however, as i agree with the idea of overhauling the entire bounty system, i would instead propose to have the locator agents made more freely accessible to anyone (so you don't have to run missions over and over in order to get usable results). this would even be more in line with the usual bounty hunter stories of picking a valuable target, tracking it down and finally getting it hold."
"supported."
"ensure that all 1200 are spamming the scan button and pressing every ship command 50 times."
"this combined with bigger watchlists:"
"no support. bigger fleets do not need more help, they need less."
"fix lag first.then bigger blobs."
"what i mean is a ship a tad bigger than a battleship that gives a +5% to race bonuses (i.e. +5% to armor warfare links), whatever the titan bonus is, some new gang links, is good vs. light support and crap against anything bigger, and can use gates. also has a small corp hanger to carry loot."
"well at last we have a role for the hypothetical t2 carrier."
"don't taze me bro!"
"supported!"
"rank 16 charisma based skill, well why not."
"rank 16? i will hate you forever if that happens. i support the need for larger fleets."
"if you have other suggestions related to this, please voice them as there will be time in iceland to discuss them with ccp."
"first, what're we talking about here?- afterburners (ab) boost speed by providing extra thrust. the ship stays relatively constant, but it gets pushed harder. (personally, i'd like to see ab leave a trail or something, so you can tell when it's running)- micro warp drives (mwd) boost speed by generating momentary warp bubbles. the ship goes into warp briefly, and then comes out, over and over. (personally, i'd like to see the old shield bubble effect used for these. as the warp bubble forms and collapses repeatedly)- warp scramblers (scram disrupt the guidance of the (micro) warp drive. they prevent the ship from resolving the destination properly. standard warp drives resolve a destination several au ahead, while mwd resolve a destination several meters ahead. if they can't resolve the destination, the safety protocols won't allow warp.- stasis webifiers (web) reduce ship speed by ensnaring them in micro tractor beams.1) according to all this, an inty is the single worst ship to use as a tackler. simply because, it's the smallest and lightest ship around. and attempting to \"lasso\" a battleship with one, should only result in an inty going along for the ride.2) webs also shouldn't have much of an effect on an mwd, because the ship is actually warping ahead of itself. so it should easily slip out of the tractor beams grasp with each pulse.the problem apparent here, is that some think the scram and the web are creating the same effect. scram disables the module, while web only gums up the works.one resolution would be to change the training necessary for webs, to include the same kind of stuff as needed for tractor beams. because there is no real ew involved in a web.if you really want to get down to it, then the two boosters should have their own specific counters.mwd / scramandab / weband they should have no effect on the other.you want to be the official tackler, then you have to fit both. one to slow them down, and one to keep them from running away."
"multiple webs on 1 target each increase the effect, multiple scrams don't. a webbed mwding target may go faster then a scrammed target, but the webbed ship has a much larger sig and is easier to lock/hit.however, my ashimu would love to get 99% webs, so yes please"
"i would just raise the webs to something like 70-75%. the nerf was needed, but was too heavy-handed imo. alternatly they could make it falloff based where at point-blank you get -90% speed and at longer ranges the strength is reduced."
"your neut bonus is already a 99% \"web\" :p"
"i would like to see an increase to 66% seems reasonable."
"i agree here."
"just add more webs, noobs, pvp orientated people always complain about wanna be 'solo players' here you are asking to make a module stronger when the solution is to have more people using that module. bring in nubs as your web/scram peeps and train them up, more people in 00/low wherever you are fighting."
"this. not supported."
"if you want to do that, you could do it much more easily with just a simple program that duplicates your keyboard and mouse input to a second maschine. you don't need voice control for that ^^anyway, i beliebe the idea is great. it just adds a little bit more fun to the game and i'm pretty sure that it does not affect macro-pilots at all if it is done correctly. i know that it would be nonsense to add a command \"target next veldspar\" but if a pilot already has a target lock on an object what is wrong about being able to say \"hold fire\" or \"open private chat\" in order to talk to your vitim? i would say: let ccp decide what they actually make out of it, but the idea itself is great and should be supported./signed"
"it's a bump"
"yes, that is why i said these items are very rare and very expensive and need to be fixed."
"hmmm... new csm, new chance? glad someone necroed that ;)"
"1) modules, rigs, skills, implants, drugs, fleet boosts... did i miss any?2-4) adding something, even if you say \"isn't mandatory\", will only mean it is completely mandatory if you want \"the best\" you can get. and no one will be happy unless they can get their hands on every little bonus available.also, keep in mind who you're asking to implement this. ccp does not have the best track record for stuff working well the first time (or ever).sure, you have \"crew\", which look remarkably like \"rigs\" with faces. oh... and due to a glitch, your cap doesn't recharge unless you have a full crew complement onboard.or even better... those cheap crewmen you found, were actually corporate spies seeded at the hubs by goons. and i bet you were wondering where all your isk went when you logged in this morning, huh?"
"... whats that robot stuff about? according to eve background story we allready have crews.also, i dont want to know how much more complex the calculations in battles get if crew, in special several crew teams are added to the equation, wonder what they would simplify to not cause horrible lag."
"i'd actually agree with this as well. a nice isk sink.the only beef i have with this proposal is, however, that it's yet another unnecessary boost, as mazzilliu already said. =/ while i love the idea of crews, i can see them pushing certain setups out of balance.crews would be a great idea and welcome addition if they had some sort of indirect effect. something that doesn't directly affect combat and ideally isn't already being modified by modules, skills, or roles.the idea needs some refinement before i'm willing to support it."
"afraid of one more level of complexity, possibly unbalancing things? simple, scrap fleet boosts. they have never made any sense - numeric superiority and good coordination seem to offer enough of an advantage on their own."
"first, solo player, your insane!back to the op...i think slots for ship crew would be cool. these crew would be found in npc wrecks like modules and would have three different versions.of course there would be many different aspects that would receive bonuses but in each area it would only be 0.5%, 1.0% and 1.5%.providing that little extra 'punch' to whatever you want them to specialize in. once installed they can not be removed. if you kill a player ship that say had a crew for +1.5% to shield amount, when you loot the can they would be a downgraded version of 1.0%.in closing a slight modifier to a ship is cool but lets keep it relativity low to keep things from being unbalanced. i have mixed feelings about the longer they are in a ship the better they get or the more you use the ship the better they get."
"as it stands, once you deactivate a module, it may not be reactivated until the cycle completes. this potentially poses a minor annoyance for every type of player. what my solution is would be simply allow the module to be activated if mistakenly deactivated or otherwise. a minor nuisance but i feel reasonable enough to request changing.edit:this is seen by the coloration of the modules outline which can be green (active), red (deactivating upon cycle completion) and none (module is neither active nor deactivating). what i am suggesting is that this allow you to switch from red to green, obviously without circumventing the cycle timer. that way you can run afterburners, strip miners, armor repairs, etc. and should you mistakenly click on the icon, you have the ability to basically \"unclick\" it, thus preventing speed loss, waiting until cycle is done on a miner or letting your tank break in a mission as per above examples."
"how would you tell?if you have instant deactivation, it'd just be a way to get around a module's rof."
"the op is not asking that we have instant deactivation, rather that we can tell the client that we want to reactivate the module before it completes its cycle.for example, if you deactivate a hardener, you could immeadiately click on it and have it continue running on the next cycle. if you deactivated a gun, you could select a new target for it, but it would not fire at the new target until the current cycle completed.what would be nice to go along with this would be the ability to schedule ammo/script changes without waiting for the cycle to complete. if the ammo/script is changed mid-cycle, the client simply waits until the current cycle finishes then completes the requested change.i support this idea, but i do not think it is a high priority."
"supporting my topic, also edited it for clarity. not a high priority fix, just something i'd know i'd use quite often"
"i'm sure everyone who plays eve has a computer that can play eve. what is your point?are you supporting the removal of our personal client settings? if so, why?"
"it isn't about prices eve isn't a game where you need to see the action in space to 'win' your hud and target icons along with the overview show you all you need so there is no need to have a 'great/uber' system to run eve. yet ccp ups the requirements and removes options, reset all clients to high settings to show off the damn planets, i should be able to run this game on a far crappier system than i do. i have several other programs running, sometimes i run up to 3 clients and i'd like eve not to look like total crap when it resets my perspective to inside my ship or thereabout. to increase fps and reduce the lag that the worse client, since dominion or summer expansion it has gotten more resource intensive, i run other clients on medium. does it matter low/med, no not really i can set it all to low, but only until ccp decides that makes their game look like crap and they can't have that, *cough* *cough* eve classic *cough*. so i say no to low and high only, medium means if something goes it 'should' be low but they've gone outside the box and removed medium so people won't complain 'you still have low' the only thing next to remove is low or upping low and high requirements leaving no wiggle room."
"it seems to me this assembly hall is to get ideas that we would like to see in the game. its not to inform ccp about the technichal/software coding difficulty of implenting the idea. if ccp would have difficulty from a technical side than that would go into their consideration of implementing it. but if people like the idea they should vote to have ccp look into it."
"disallow activation of any sort of module capable of affecting another ship within docking/jump range in empire. once in null-sec anything goes.removes the undock ***gotry, limits the lame logistics jumping back-and-forth and resolves a ton of lag at hub stations.if i was the proprietor of a business i would take a sledgehammer to anyone who started fighting in my lobby/parking-lot .. then i would call the cops to clean up the mess.-----------------------------as for mechanics supporting arranged fights, can-flipping does that very well currently .. only thing \"broken\" with what we have is that people have no honour and readily undock a small fleet to gank whomever is foolish enough to agree to a fair fight. not sure if our despicable human nature should be controlled too much .. supposed to be a game where you sell you sister into slavery to get ahead."
"arbitrator vs eagleyou can't balance on isk."
"i have fantastic ecm skills, so i would be giddy about an arena. i would be happy to ruin people's days in an arena. this doesn't make it a good idea. 1v1 would boil down to who got the first ecm hit on the other player. team vs team would be interesting (but you would have to limit logistics like the alliance tournament or you may end up with a lot of never-ending fights)."
"great, now fix insurance too plz!"
"if this isn't a good reason to keep the 5 minutes, i don't know what is."
"oh gawd, yes please!"
"1. character securitypersonally, a nightmare scenario that gets reported on the forums. in addition to clearing out your account, the new thing seems to be to also transfer characters from the account. and according to this information, ccp does not undo that transfer, probably because it was paid for with real cash by the attacker. since in turn selling these characters provides \"clean\" isk, the occurrence of this will only increase.for members of player corporations this is less an issue, as there is a chance that your corpmates will detect you randomly dropping roles while on vacation and petition, but for members of npc corporations that can not have roles and therefor instantly transferred, this is big.therefor i propose the introduction of a cooldown timer similar to the one we have in place right now for recycling characters. it can be enabled via the account management page (\"character transfer lockdown: enabled/pending-disabled/disabled\"), is enabled instantaneous (disabled->enabled), but takes 7 days to clear if turned off (enabled -> pending-disabled (7 days) -> disabled). the default setting for existing and newly created accounts is 'disabled'. only if the status is 'disabled' characters from that account can be transferred to a different account.an account can receive characters from other accounts regardless of its lockdown state (i.e. in any).- assumed database performance impact: neglectable- assumed development time requisition: low / low to medium2. account security (1)dominion brought us the awesome 'subscription renewal warning' on the character selection screen. the following should be implemented in a similar fashion. having anything reported by the described counter which you can not remember because you just misspelled your password 5 times is probably a good indication you should change your password to something better.i propose the addition of an \"unsuccessful login attempt\" counter for every account, if there is not one already in the database. if it is, i propose it gets exported. the initial state of this counter for existing and newly created accounts should be zero. every unsuccessful login attempt should raise this counter by 1.every successful login attempt should display the value of this counter on the character selection screen similarly to the 'subscription renewal warning' if its value is unequal to zero and reset it to zero afterwards.assuming the database can not differentiate between game and website logins, a similar report page should also be added to the website. more ideally, game and website login would get separated.- assumed database performance impact: neglectable- assumed development time requisition: low to medium / medium3. account security (3)there is this game that some people claim to exist called 'world of warcraft'. in contrast to being a fantasy game, accounts are not protected by witchcraft, but by a futuristic gadget of geekness. it supports a physical security token (check here).i propose that a similar system gets introduced to eve online. players may choose to purchase such a token, and may link their account(s) to it (one-to-many relation token[1]->account[*]). no account may be linked to more than one token (one-to-one relation account[1]->token[1]).mechanisms for unlocking the account in case of device loss/failure are in place at rollout.if the account is secured by a token is api-exported as a boolean flag, accessible via the limited key, so that for example corporations may choose to issue director access roles only to characters on such secured accounts.- assumed database performance impact: neglectable / low- assumed development time requisition: medium to high / highconclusioni believe that the developer time costs are offset by reduced gm time costs, making eve a better place for us all."
"would ccp really give the procurer gas harvesting bonuses? and would the procurer be able to out harvest the retriever? which have a +1 harvester advantage.if the answer is no to either then the procurer is still without much use."
"yeah, give procurer double bonuses to gas cloud harvesters and allow it to fit 3"
"yes, the skill tree for mining profession dosent make senseprocurer should be the first ship a noob miner gets after a frigate, and he should get it fairly fastdont agree with the op on \"non-dedicated\" miners.. because non-dedicated miner would still get a retriver, and a procurer mines less per minute than a t1 cruiser, so it's just useless except for noob miners who cant fly cruisers.on the gas harvesting bonus... no way, maybe some new t2 ship, or maybe add another bonus to the mackinaw/skif, so it gets a dual-role"
"not if you throw in a 4x harvesting bonus, and a compression bonus for the cargo hold."
"bonuses.that aside, you can out perform a procurer in a battlecruiser with mining lasers (i know, i've seen me do it). they definitely need a looking over."
"gas harvesting mechanic is not yeld based like regular mining or time based like ice mining, its turret based (as in you get to use one more turret every skill level) - i dont see how you can fit a single-turreted ship in this mechanic, bonus or not bonus."
"i would think a very large bay that can only hold gas would be easier to implement."
"two points:the most important is that ccp truly does not have the logs you think they do. take a step back and think: what machine is responsible for taking logs? that's right, its the machine that's coughing and wheezing. when it comes to multi-machine simulations like mmos, there is no single timeline that is \"true,\" all of them simply have degrees of truth to them.second, it is in ccp's strongest interests to not admit to the lag problem that every single 0.0 player knows exists. they have to control the pr, and the last thing they need is people making blog posts and quoting a gm about how their ship got reimbursed so there's clearly a problem.now what i still cannot figure out is why they cannot emulate this effect. unless the issues are coming from upstream of them (i.e. they're not buying enough bandwidth for their own good), these battle problems should be 100% reproducible, and this should be in their ticket log as a \"blocker\" because it is basically undermining our faith in the feasibility of playing the game."
"i don't really think this should be a terribly difficult thing. if one pilot mashes jump then goes to plug their john for the next half hour instead of playing eve, sure, don't reimburse. it was obvious because it was only one player.but it is a big stretch to say that an entire fleet collectively took a dump together. i mean, if the server logs show that 500 people jumped into a system and proceeded to not play the game for the next half hour, i think the lost ships should be reimbursed at that point.the logs have the facts in this situation (unlike other strange \"mechanics\" that had deserved reimbursement but could not be proved in the past). it is the huge, gaping, black hole of nothing happening that should flag the situation."
"i lost 3 fleet bs's in this manner.i have started calling it the black screen of death.this is how it rolls for me:jump into system - stare at a black screen for 10 - wtf maybe lag - 20 seconds extreme lag, unacceptable lag - 30 seconds - check is my pc working - ctrl-alt-esc - taskmgr loaded - yes its working - check cpu usage - negligable 23% total - 90% on 1 of the four cores - check network activity - minimal - <1% useage on 8 meg dsl - wait 5 mins - nothing - wait 15 mins - nothing - wait 30 mins - close client - try to log back in - black screen - reboot pc - log in - have been pod death to a station.reship - repeatnext daybuy a new ship - repeatpetition filed - same reply (as you mentioned)i complained and recieved a rehasing of the first reply including the words our logs show our servers wernt lagging at the time you mentioned - you must expect lag in fleet battles. 30 minuites lag!!!! wtf!!!!!!! its client lag my a$%<U+FFFD>. did you even read my petition or did you have so damn many u just copy pasted the we couldnt give a crap reply?calmed down a little.............then a little morefiled a new petition asking for my money back as the game clearly isnt fit for purpose - it simply dosent work. i am yet to recieve a response and its been well over a week. im not holding my breath.when my subscription runs out i wont be renewing. what a farce!"
"was supposed to post that under my main - grr fail"
"basically, ban all the nubbins that post things like \"i want voice commands in eve waah\", \"i want a supar damage control modual so i can survive my own stupidity\".nuff said."
"if we banned people for saying stupid things, the eve forums wouldn't exist."
"so you're saying you want to ban yourself?"
"dammit, they're on to me!and yeah, p. much"
"sure... starting with you william."
"nah, it's more fun to ridicule them."
"i guess this is the only forum i agree with someone from tri but this and please no more post about missiles they are fine as they are."
"rockets..nuff said."
"ok ill give you that onebut no more whining about missiles having delayed damage."
"this has been part of many \"improve mining\" threads but i feel this change goes beyond the scop of improving mining, but for expanding gas harvesting as a profession.replace the 3% yield bonus from strip miners to specialized gas harvester modules (maybe 22m3 but with a longer cycle time than tii harvesters), plus a gas compression bonus to the barge's cargohold.give it a 2nd high slot to fit in a probe launcher."
"the problem with that is that a maximized gas harvesting cruiser can take in 100 m3. you would have to make it so the module would be more efficient, without completely overwhelming the cruiser modules.gas is such a pain to harvest that it keeps the prices high. if you make it too much easier to harvest, you would sink the prices for gasses, and therefore the costs of t3 ships and boosters. this would require a delicate balancing.also, the procurer is pretty much beyond repair. the best idea would be to refit the skiff to do this. while i can agree to some of these points in an extended view, i cannot support this idea as it stands now."
"the problem is that the skiff already has specific boni that it uses to perform its job well.if a perfectly set up cruiser can mine 100m3/cycle, then the procurer, with equal skill training time, should be able to mine that amount, even if it requires a longer module cycle.the \"perk\" can be applied to the cargo bay. cruisers without expansions can run about 600m3. given a compression bonus, allow the procurer to hold 1000m3, although this is limited to gasses only.this will make the ship more viable without affecting production yield, and help keep the value of gases at a manageable rate.it should be a viable ship choice for hisec gas mining, the skiff would be geared to low/null as the intention of other exhumers."
"of course..."
"would have supported this sooner...but i had to wait 5min since the last thread i participated in."
"people sure are quick to forget about all the rubbish that was plaguing this forum prior to the posting timer being introduced. and besides, the timer is easily circumvented anyway (which i personally think is the real problem, but that's another topic).not supported./ben"
"if there's a bunch of crap threads/posts, i can skip them. i can't skip the timer."
"the timer is working wonders against the keylogger spam so not supported at all."
"super capitals logging off and their carrier buddies remote repping them till they disappear. v0v"
"i am against"
"you are slightly biased here... no?"
"lies"
"considering hugin is designed for webbing and is not a cloaked recon it must have a web stenght boost to get a dual bonus on his main weapon wich is the web (like the curse have on neutra )i think a 7,5% bonus per recon skill(instead of the target painter bonus that nobody use on a hugin) level would be a good think making a pilot with recon 5 have 82,5% web strenght"
"there have been countless requests for a web strength bonus on the hug/rapier ever since they were nerfed but i think that with the current combat philosophy, 82% would be too much. 5% per level sounds more reasonable imo, for 75% webs."
"there is even without additional intel tools we propose in this topic.you would be surpised how people can adopt to no loacl envoirment. only lazy or unlucky people actually die in w-space.true"
"a big problem with getting fair fights of near-even numbers in eve is that the current stats on killboards reward only fights where your side hugely outnumbers the other side.players and corps soon learn that the way to get good efficiency is to never undock or engage in battles except at 3-to-1 or even better odds.as a result, it becomes really hard to find near-even battles, which are far more enjoyable.therefore, enable killboards to be able to pull up blob-o-meters for players and corps.* average number of ships in your gang vs the other gang in battles.* average ship point value of your side vs the other side in battles.this can show right away whether corps and players have good stats because they just blob or whether they engage on fair fights or outnumbered ones.performance metrics are hugely powerful.install blob-o-meters and some(not all) corps and players that specialize in near-even or outnumbered fights will be able to identify and regular pvp against other corps that are similar.and they can aim for stats they can be proud of (look! the stat shows we fight outnumbered!) instead of only showing lower efficiency than blobbing outfits."
"...killboards are in no way associated with ccp. why would you put this in the assembly hall?this could easily be modded on top of the edk most likely, even though i have a hard time making much sense of your suggestions at all.edit: not to mention how many glaring holes the suggestion has.how do you define a battle? should you have a scoring system for different ship types (a person in a merlin is not exactly as useful as a person in a falcon)? who keeps that up to date?"
"clarification of suggestion:enable killboards to be able to display the following stats for players and corps.* average number of ships in your side vs the other side in battles.* average ship point value of your side vs the other side in battles.hmm, yeah maybe its a suggestion for edk instead.the reason i suggested it here was because i thought ccp may need to release some sort of statistical help via api to enable edk to display this.basically when you look at a person or corp's kb now, you just mainly see efficiency, kill-ratio and number of kills.people who blob regularly actually usually have better stats than ace players who engage solo or against tougher odds.therefore i think kbs should also have stat(s) on numerical/ship point odds the person engages at to complete the picture.yeah its going to be hard to figure out but any improvement/imperfect additional ratio is better than none."
"don't think it would take much cpu at all and api output is cached anyway.believe that the information is lacking because the whole thing is an after-thought that was never really completed.think there is an issue where bpo and bpc actually look the same in the database, thus them not having different icons.if they redesign/fix the icon issue then making api report original vrs copy should be easier.shouldn't be much issue to include the me/pe/runs fields, just work that no one has been assigned to finish.hint: you can actually compile your me/pe information from lab jobs finishing and reporting the blueprint info in api, however it's not a very accurate technique."
"should i make a counter thread proposing the reinstatement of larkonis?"
"i called dibs on counter proposal threads when i started this one- dont be such an unoriginal **** and find your own way to troll."
"where can i view what has been done so far?"
"i am requesting that no one suggest his ideas ever."
"this isn't even just affecting the rokh though it would have to be balanced around such since it's the most likly to overshadow other ships if made over-powered. it would also offer a much needed boost to the megathron as a sniper which in the current state certainly needs to be offered something to become competetive once more.if you include reload times in dps things get even worse asn you start to see the rokh do less damage against armor and far less damage against shields, there's no excuse for this as the apoc dosen't suffer any penalties to balance this out."
"i wasn't trying to use it as a comparison to the rokh, i wanted to use the armageddon and abaddon as a comparison to the megathron and hyperion. bagehi made some claims about what could be done with those ships, and i want to see if there is any truth in those claims.i will need to explore the mega beam setups some more. the apoc setup that altaica amur provided is a glass cannon that doesn't stand a chance against a properly setup rokh. he left two empty slots on his rokh setup and really made no effort to get anything out of it. i expect problem is with his setups as they don't appear to properly represent what should be done with either ship. (this is not intended to be a personal attack, it is just that those setups don't show the rokh as being weaker) however i am having a harder time finding the specific flaw in his apoc setup, and would welcome alternative suggestions.i am still looking for those setups. with the setups that push out to 220+ km that i have looked at so far, i have not been able to get the apoc to come out on top, but i am likely missing something. i expect to keep looking for a better apoc setup. maybe by shortening the expected ranges a bit (like you suggest 190-200km, not 220-250km) i can give the apoc a reasonable buffer, instead of fitting it as a glass cannon."
"define glass cannon. do you look at eft ehp or armor/ shield buffer? since now that there are no area effect dds, fleet bs ehp is significantly lower. is 50k too little?"
"i look at eft ehp using the expect damage profile.since he didn't finish fitting the rokh, i figured i would do it myself:the rokh deals 320.7 raw dps and against the aurora damage profile has 76,350 ehp.the apoc deals 401.5 raw dps and against the spike damage profile has 32.231 ehp.conclusion: apoc dies on the 20th volley from the rokh (105 seconds if 1v1). the rokh would die on the 28th volley from the apoc (192 seconds if 1v1). the rokh kills the apoc setup almost twice as fast as the apoc can kill the rokh, and that is giving the apoc the benefit of staying within its 231km optimal. (my rokh's setup has an optimal of 253, decreasing that would allow for an even stronger tank.) sure the apoc can kill the rokh faster than the rokh can kill another rokh, but what use is that if the apoc can't take the return fire from a rokh. that is why i said that altaica amur's setup appears to be a glass cannon: lots of raw dps, but can't take the return fire."
"the drake seems to be good enough, or perhaps even slightly op.nerf it, and caldari have what left? :pi do think that the drake should be slightly nerfed for pvp, somehow."
"just fyi, this thread deals with railguns ,not with caldari ships, although they're some of them related with that kind of artillery. actually involves more gallente than caldari ships.therefore, i do agree with you, most caldari ships are already good enough, but plz don't derail the subject."
"might use rails for gangs without being laughed at."
"they were glass cannons primarily for the purpose of examining turret preformance since that's what this thread is about, to fit the rokh with similar focus upon turret preformance would simply put it further beyond the lock limit of 249 at which range the apoc will still be doing similar/more damage then a rokh.however i'll entertain you...tach apoc2x heat sink iitracking enhancer ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates i2x reactor control unit iidamage control ii3x sensor booster ii, targeting rangequad lif fueled i booster rockets8x tachyon beam laser ii, aurora llarge algid energy administrations unit ilarge energy locus coordinator ilarge ancillary current router irokh3x magnetic field stabilizer iidamage control iicapacitor power relay iiquad lif fueled i booster rocketslarge shield extender iicap recharger ii2xsensor booster ii, targeting rangeinvulnerability field ii8x 425mm railgun ii, spike llarge ancillary current router ilarge hybrid locus coordinator ilarge ancillary current router iend result is, rokh has more ehp apoc has more damage and yeah in a sniper duel rokh would probably win, unfortunately sniper duels don't exactly happen, fleet fights do and in fleet fights apoc gets the benefit of the eleventy billion ships with armor rr fitted while the rokh.... cries because it's a shield tank. now you can certainly make the argument that the rokh still ends up getting a fitting advantage as a result of it's range bonus making it's life easier allowing it to become a tankier sniper. however since the primary purpose remains shooting the other guy the fact that it's survivable is a nice benefit to get for paying for a tier 3 ship while sill being burdened with low damage.also to prove the point we'll try a tankier mega beam setup on for size.[apocalypse, new setup 1]2x heat sink iitracking enhancer ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates i2x adaptive nano plating iidamage control iitracking computer ii, optimal rangequad lif fueled i booster rockets2x sensor booster ii, targeting range8xmega beam laser ii, aurora llarge trimark armor pump ilarge ancillary current router ilarge trimark armor pump imore damage more ehp then the rokh only disadvantage is range, and then not by much. they key here is while the rokh only has one weapons system and a fitting advantage the apoc has two weapons system and a damage advantage which can be sold down for more ehp which is easier to aquire thanks to the natural advantages of armor at this size. the key problem lies in the low damage output forcing you to maximize damage in the fit to be viable then forcing you to fit shield tanking mods with the ship's bonus and the fact that there's nothing else to do, oddly mid slots being less useful due to the tracking computer nerf which should also be fixed and the fact that fitting mods are all low slots."
"i am not an eve veteran however i have been playing a couple of years. i am originally a gallente pilot. i have now cross trained all races mostly because of the arms races that go on in eve (blasters are king, no now its missiles, hang on lasers are freaking awesome now but that alpha from projectiles is attractive). so from my experience in eve and eft warrioring like mad i see this....using rails....gallente sniper boats lack tracking (even a lvl5 mega pilot) and alpha (high rof though). they also suffer from slightly lower ranges however this is a racial balance as they have sensor damps (although they need a boost)caldari have extreme range and good dps (god awful tracking) at this range however they are the bastard child shield tanker and would only be good in a rokh fleet with shield logistic support (won't happen).using beams...phenomenal tracking and good range. heavy dps (moderate alpha). heavy cap usage but 1 sec crystal changeusing projectiles...unbelievable alpha strike and at the higher end of the dps battle (moderate dps) with good tracking. capless weapon system but the lowest range.so in summary when sniping...rails = extreme range (if you're a rohk pilot) & high rof with low dps and very low alpha.beams = good range, high dps, extreme tracking & good alpha with high capacitor usageprojectiles = extreme alpha strike, good tracking, good dps & capless weapon with low rangeso where does the balancing begin?this is a very difficult question but i think perhaps switching the tracking between artys and beams could be a start. artys do have lowest range and should have the best tracking but beams hold the crown.increasing dps of rails i think might not be the way forward however, what about a rof increase to rails... this would have the drawback of heavier cap & ammo usage of rails, would give some extra dps and give rails a real secondary advantage"
"2 lots of ppl clueless about tach apoc fits in this topic - you fit just 7 tachs, then 1 rcu is more then enough. freed low/rig slots go towards tank or damage making it superior in every way to crap setups you post.and yes, boost railguns, especially in cruiser/bc class, they're terrible"
"why don't you f*ggots compare pg usage instead of just stats. my large weapons do so much more than my small ones, why can't they be more balanced? waaah!itt; crybabies."
"yes."
"supporting."
"very constructive post, sir. did you miss the hac comparisons or the 425mms to mega beams?of course you did, that's why you post inanities.again: if you compare apoc (mega beams) with rokh (425mm) and mega (425mm) with similar fittings and all of them having an optimal of 180-190, then apoc does a 1.16 the dps of a rokh and 1.19 the dps of a mega. as far as buffer (not ehp, if you are in structure in a sniper fleet you are dead, warp out you fool!) all 3 have roughly 14k of armor/ shield, with the mega showing the highest ehp due to high structure and dcu ii. btw, and so that we have all bases covered, if you look at a tempest (1400mm), it has an optimal of 140, but with 70km falloff, has no issue to deliver the exact same dps an apoc does.as an aside, if someone came here and asked that apoc get 30 cpu more, i'd support it.but in the end it comes down to this: when comparing similar fitted ships with the same class of weapons, apoc and tempest do at least 16% more damage at the same range when compared to rokh and mega. thus railguns need a 15% dmage increase to be able to compete at those ranges."
"you are probably right. however, that would completely remove the apoc's raw damage advantage over the rokh. given the popularity of armour the rokh would see a much larger effective damage advantage over the apoc.the rokh sucks, and the rokh uses railguns therefore railguns need to be boosted! non sequitur! the more you importance you place on armor, the worse the apoc will look when compared to the rokh.those setups were entertaining. the apoc has a 11% advantage in raw dps, but the rokh has a 13% advantage in effective dps against the \"eleventy billion ships with armor rr fitted\". the rokh has a longer optimal range and falloff. both are similar in cap usage.now for a crazy observation, swap a few modules and lets see what else we can do with the rokh. replace as follows:capacitor power relay ii -> energized adaptive nano membrane iilarge shield extender ii -> cap recharger iiinvulnerability field ii -> tracking computer ii, optimal rangelarge hybrid locus coordinator i -> large trimark armor pump ilarge ancillary current router i -> large trimark armor pump inow look at the comparison: the new setup has 10% less ehp than the previous rokh setup, but it still has 24% more ehp than the apoc. further, the rokh has 9% more armor ehp than the apoc and it has better armor resistances so the \"eleventy billion ships with armor rr fitted\" are even more effective in helping the rokh than the apoc. armour tanked rokh: stupid but still more effective than that apoc setup. still need to take a closer look at that mega beam laser setup and cross compare with the megathron and rokh. i will let you know what i find."
"1st mistake: fitting rigs in a fleet bs.2nd mistake: insisting on using tachyons3rd mistake: selectively disregarding the data and analyses from people that live in 0.0 and have taken part in the fleet fights we're using in our case study.you're out!!did i not present the facts in a concise and easy to understand way? let's see them again:on deimos: i updated the data with a fit that a member of my alliance brought to my attention and was able to improve on, managing to reach eagle performance.i don't see you bringing anything to counter these arguments to the table, apart from the buffer and resists. so let's look at them."
"ok if i understand this correctly you expect laser users to get the same if not similar damage on armor as rails do but getting a massive bonus to hitting shields for free? that's not balance and if you think it is then you don't understand what balance is. lasers are high dps weapons that favor hitting shields and disfavor hitting armor, rails are mid-low dps weapons that don't favor either, they do the same damage to shields and armor so logically balancing things would put rails as doing more damage to armor. currently they don't, in fact ruling in reloads pegs rail dps as being less on armor then lasers. as i pointed out in a previous post even weighting damage vs armor as mattering 3x more then damage vs shields a 15% boost in dps (or rof for that matter) would still keep rail's average dps (224 currently, 257 after 15% boost) less then lasers (260).true if there were no shields in the game at all the apoc wouldn't be nearly so powerful compared to the rokh however there are shields and even if we choose to put less importance on them then armor the damage shields receive shouldn't be completely ignored or else have it normalized. while you may ignore the 65% more damage shields receive that range is where rails should be damage wise probably around 20% above laser damage on armor, but we'll take 15% to respect lasers as a higher damage weapon overall. rails, a weapons system that does equal damage to both armor and shields shouldn't be constrained by the poor damage lasers do to armor while they do so much more damage to shields.numbers...rail dps current/15% boostraw: 320/368vs. armor: 224/258vs. shields: 224/258average: 224/258laser dpsraw: 401vs. armor: 223vs. shields: 370average: 296"
"(continue)thanks altaica for the chip in, very informative.let us examine the vaunted buffer tanks the other bs sport, overwhelming the poor apocalypse . all lvl 5 pilots, fleet bs fitted, max range, max dps, 220+ lock.apocalypse: 14.6k armor em: 59.6 / therm: 47.5 / kin: 39.4 / explo: 35.4rokh: 13.9k shieldem: 47.5 / therm: 58 / kin: 68.5 / explo: 73.7tempest: 13.9k armorem: 66 / therm: 44.8 / kin: 36.3 / explo: 23.5megathron: 13.5k armorem: 65.7 / therm: 55.4 / kin: 55.4 / explo: 38.2so, even here the apocalypse has a bigger buffer. the rokh, thanks to the 5% per level ship bonus has of course the biggest resists for it's shield tank. mega has also slightly better resists than the apoc but less buffer (in eft a lot of that ehp is structure).if i'd rank them as far as buffer, i'd say mega= rokh> tempest> apocalypse is their order.you can see that you proposal to just fit rokh with an armor tank is nice, but wrong if we examine each ship in vitro. but in fleet fights, armor rr does play a significant role and the fact that rokh is the only shield tanker there makes it a lame duck.anyway, this is a thread about railguns and how they perform, not the rokh. so let's look at mega to see what does it have to pay for that nice buffer:megathron (425mm) spike l, 312 dps @ 183 +58, (1747 alpha), 0.0049 <- (2x magstabs, you need the slots and cpu to fit 2xtes and a tc to reach that range)apocalypse(mega beams) aurora l, 372 dps @ 193+33, (1842 alpha), 0.00524the apocalypse does 20% more dps than a ship with a direct 5% per level bonus to it's w/s. i believe that is wrong and needs to be corrected. i don't want to see amarr and lazors nerfed, since after the projectile boost, those two are at the same level. however, i do want to see railguns be buffed to the level of the rest of the long range turrets."
"what fleet bs setups would you suggest that we compare? can you provide an independant reference to support the claim that rigs should not be used on fleet bs's?i am not insisting on using tachyons. i am currently reviewing the alternatives, but so far they don't look much different.what data or analyses have i ignored?care to share your full setups so that all of the comprimises in fitting can be seen?also, can you show what side effects this change will have on ships other than hac's?i am still looking at comparing all these ships. comparing 4 ships (rokh, apoc, mega, temp) is alot more work than comparing 2 ships. so far i would point out that it is no more reasonable to expect the megathron to compete at 190km than it is to expect the apoc to compete at 220km. the megathron's appears to prefer ranges closer to 170km.the tempest is starting to look promising, all the more so because of its advantage with damage type and its ablity to fit rr's along with a proper gank.well there is the huge problem with fitting: tank or gank, but not both. rails also have a range disadvantage: railgun ships with bonuses out range laser ships with bonuses, railgun ships without bonuses out range laser ships without bonues. armor is used everywhere in pvp for several reasons, as such if lasers could not deal reasonable damage against armor they would be useless in pvp. yes, i expect laser users to get huge damage advantage on shields/structure (that's what makes them different from projectiles/hybrid) and reasonable damage on armor but not for free: they pay to do so.401 dps for lasers on what ship? the mega beam laser apoc that you provided only deals 331 dps, and we have seen why your tachyon apoc's don't work very well.shield/armor/structureapoc: 306/184/331rokh: 224/224/320also, you can expect to take a strait average of damage to shields and armor when fleets fit 50/50 armor and shield tanks. as it is armor rules supreme in fleet combat. you cannot completely ignore the effect of shield and structure, but atleast make some attempt to put them in their proper context. ccp is well aware of how significant armor tanking is in pvp, don't expect them to ignore that fact when rebalancing hybrids."
"yes, it is. that's why we are using benchmarks and similar fits and not arbitrarily throw some mods together.don't be lazy, similar ones have been posted on this and other forums many times. also, you might want to check public kbs. the reason that i am not posting them is that they are the result of a lot of trial and errors, and that cost us quite a bit. if you want to compensate me for serving them on a silver platter, i'll take a modest gift of 250 mil for them. optimization is a very lucrative business and it costs quite a bit, so pay up, and i'll send them to you.see above? multiply the dps and alpha for both railbs by 1.15...presto!!"
"i have no problem fitting 3 x mag stabs on a megathron, why can't you?megathron: 13.5k armorem: 57.5 / therm: 44.8 / kin: 44.8 / explo: 23.5megathron (425mm) spike l, 351 dps @ 183 +58, (1847 alpha), 0.0049"
"no one trying to ignore anything, your question was vague in the extreme no offence intended , you speak of \"attributes\" ( could be anything ) and \"relevant\" without stating relevant to what ? i am not a mind reader.theres nothing good about the bonus.stating some of the pro's ( inacurate and overstated ) of missile systems has no bearing on the profiecency of the bonus.1 missiles do not do \"high\" damage , blaster at point blank and ac's and pulses do \"high\" damage.missile damage is moderate to low at best and2 missile dont do constant damage anymore not since the last missile rebalance ages ago, missile damage is attenuated by speed.3 even against a target at constant speed \"constant\" damage is often less preferable than sudden big hit, ask an inti pilot how long he can hold a missile boat versus a gun boat before having to disengage.4 drake sure, but since when did a cara and a cerb have a \"high count of missile bay\" , answer never.all irrelevant when it comes to the question of the bonus anyway.we are looking at the percentage increase in power from low skill levels to high skill levels.whats stupid about the 8% argument, as you have stated in the same paragraph cmb's can use the bonus or use unbonused ammo when bonused kinetic is not advatageous. thats where the 8% comes from as we are looking at how much the bonus improves dps over many engagements.1. sure if it proves in testing to be neccessary. my permission would hardle be needed for this anyways!!2. drake - if ( if ) drake proves to be too good then losing a low slot ( less bcu's possible ) and increaseing the base shield recharge ( to compensate spr ) fits would be enough to rain in excess firepower in my unqualified oppinion.caracal - no way is the cara ever gonna be overpowered by this change, the idea is laughable.averaged firepower on affected cmb's would increase by what ? 15%thats the averaged out improvement in overall fp , not over and above the current bonused kin situation.cerberus - your prop is not acceptable , all hacs get the same amount of bonuses.if you wanna compare a ham cerb to a ham sac then you'll see the ham sac is better anyway. dps may be equiv but a sac doesnt have to gimp its fit to get hams on due to much better pg.3. not acceptable.4. your making the huge assumption that anything would become op, i sure the dev's would do what is neccesaary to reign in any excesses in op'd cmb's if that happened.remember this thread is about more than just ship balance. so if some re-balancing is neccessary afterwards so be it.why bother.well if you consider cmb's to be balanced against other ships atm ( which i dont btw ) then it may seem like a stupid thing to do just to go from where we are to another balanced scenario, but my and others greviances about the kin bonus go beyond just ship balance.i wont re-state them here , they are in the op and throughout discussions in reply post.sorry for any wall of textishness that may be in this reply :)"
"make it a 2.5% rof bonus and be done with it already."
"yay, i'm getting ignored."
"sorry, i had to split the post. answers and comments will follow in 5 minutes"
"1. - reading comprehension problem or short memory failure? relevant to the ability of the ship it sits on ? yes of course it is. 2. - but it has effect on proficiency of fitted ship as a whole.3. - by high damage blasters you mean \"neutron blasters\", which are impossible to fit with any kind of tank comparable do caldari ships. also let's completely ignore \"point blank\" thing (blasters, autocannons), cap usage (lasers, blasters), tracking at low ranges (pretty much any long range gun), reduced dps due to falloff (4. - lie. hmls and cruise missiles have far superior raw dps at long ranges compared to any long range guns, for hams see 3 (and ignore it again i guess).5. - sorry, i should phrase more clearly: missiles do constant damage (adjusted for speed and signature radius) as long the target is within their range. guns at point blank range has trouble hitting target at much lower speed than missile.6. - you can easily out-track (or keep ot of range) gunship in interceptor, which means indefinitely. 7. - compare caracal to tier 2 gunboat cruisers. omen: 4 guns, stabber: 4 guns8. - you are contradicting yourself:relevant to the ability of the ship it sits on ? yes of course it is. 9. - it's stupid because you're mixing ammo, intentionally reducing ships potential to prove your point. it's equally stupid as putting hmls on sacrilege (it's a missile boat, right?) or using standard crystals as base for comparing dps (i guess that cap use reduction for cap stability is important or something). also see 13.10. - this is why your proposal is truly a bad one: you're trying to fix a non-problem while creating a problem. good proposal weights both pros and cons and at least try to evaluate an impact of that change.11. - haha! good one. so you you really want your drake boost and nothing else. let me guess, you're using passive shield tanked drake, so your tanking ability wouldn't be affected at all. and you would still get your dps boost.12. - you can laugh all you want, but that's that hardly an argument.13. - 25% increase on three damage types actually. trying to use average values is wrong when optimal solution is required. it's like using autocannon maelstrom loaded with all 8 different t1 ammo types for comparison of average dps.14. - then replace it with different bonus not affecting directly dps. explosion velocity factor comes to mind. be creative.15. - and let's ignore the double range of hams on cerberus. also let's ignore that sacrilege cannot fit hmls, while hams on cerberus are an option with little drawback.16. - then why are you proposing this change? it is direct boost of already powerful ships.17. - not an assumption. drake is already best pve (and arguably best as most used pvp) bc. you are proposing blatant 25% dps boost over 3 damage types.18. - \"more\"? how \"more\"? how is this more important than relative ship balance? 19. - great, let's just create problem which will obviously need to be fixed later.20. - as follows:effectivelly a level 5 pilot becomes no more effective at dealing damage than a level 1 pilot.doesn't matter - level 5 pilot has more resistance or range (but you already disproved your argument: see maller or apocalypse couple of posts up)caldari get 5% more kinetic in 1/3 engagements depending upon target. averaged out this is only 1.66% extra dps per player skill level.false - pilot has 25% more damage when using racial (optimal) damage type. he also has option to switch to slightly \"weaker\" non racial damage type, if it's better option.caldari damage bonus is not compatible with damage type switching combat tacticsfalse - the bonus doesn't prevent you to switch damage types. hybrids and lasers cannot do so, projectiles with severe range penalties.and finally: stop ignoring james tritanius."
"1. - reading comprehension problem.what were you refering to in your post , range bonuses on pocs or the op ?2. - use of the word \"it\" again out of any context.it is not my reading comprehension that is at fault.what are you talking about ?3. - your desciption of missile damage as being \"high\" is wrong.missile may do more damage at range than guns sure, but its not \"high\" damage.its \"moderate\" to \"mild\" damage at any range, compared to gun \"high\" damage at point blank and \"low\" damage at range.irrelevant anyway as the op is pointing to the percentage increase in these values for hull training completed.guns \"high - low\" damage depending on range gets bonused by 25% or 33% at level 5 hull training.missiles \"moderate\" at any range damage gets bonused by 8% at hull training 5. 4. - answered in 3.5. - a fast ship a chasing a fast ship b which does more damage guns or missiles ?guns are better in some scenario's missiles are better in some scenario'sirrelevant anyway as the op is pointing to the percentage increase in these values for hull training completed.guns tracking attenuated damage gets bonused by 25% or 33% at level 5 hull training.missiles speed attenuated damage gets bonused by 8% at hull training 5. 6. - which is easier to tackle in a ceptor a drake or a cane ?. 7. - caracal is tier 3 v vexor,stabber,omencaracal is 3rd after vexor,stabber and before omen iirc.8. - no condradiction those were choices depending upon which you were talking about the poc range bonus or 5%k on cmb's9. - no i am not mixing ammo , 8% is the averaged value over many engagements some using unmixed unbonused ammo and some using bonused kin.10. - you may consider it a non problem , i do not and neither do others , just because it doesnt affect you personally does not mean it is not a problem.11. - another possibility would be missile speed or precision for the drake if dpl proves to be to powerful.12. - very true. sorry i just cant envisage the cara becoming op, its just so bad atm its not even funny to think of it becoming op because of a 15% dps increase.13. - 125 / 108 = 1.15xxxxxx = 15% increase from where the ships are atm.14. - sorry too vague , i am having another \"comprehension problem\" , please stop using the word \"it\" out of any sort of context. what is \"it\" ?.15. - ?? why cant a sac fit hml's ??.16. - read the op.17. - i'm pretty sure the drake would be the most complained about ship in testing.if the devs choose something else for it ( like exp vel or missile vel ) i would not mind.although theres no reason caldari cant have a great ship in the same way the other races have there great ships ( vaga anyone ? , vexor anyone ? , ishtar anyone ? , revelation anyone ? , taranis anyone ? , geddon anyone ? , ruppy anyone ? ) where are the great cal ships ? , drake is currently good but its not that far ahead if at all compared to harby/cane.18. - read the op.19. - ah sarcasm ? , well just because something \"may\" require a bit of work rebalancing is not a reason not to fix it.more to follow......"
".....continued20. - as follows:effectivelly a level 5 pilot becomes no more effective at dealing damage than a level 1 pilot.does matter - doesnt matter to you because your not affected i would guess.nowhere eles in the game does a player loss the effect of his bonus, it only happens with cmb'scaldari get 5% more kinetic in 1/3 engagements depending upon target. averaged out this is only 1.66% extra dps per player skill level.true. you seem to be having trouble grasping what averaged out mean ? sorry i cant help you here , go read wiki entry on average is best advice i can give you.i wont re-iterate the maths its in the op iirc.caldari damage bonus is not compatible with damage type switching combat tacticstrue.mini can change damage type to aim for week resists ( the damage output for all types of ammo is bonused , ie there bonus is compatible with there tactics ).caldari can change damage type to aim for week resists ( however the damage output for all types of ammo is not bonused , ie there bonus is not compatible with there tactics ).and finally: stop ignoring james tritanius.i'll answer question or debate with anyone bringing up issues about cmb's and kin bonuses.whah posts saying you havnt done a,b,c yet will be treated like the trolls posts that they are.if a post is not discusing kin bonus cmb's or related then its not on topic is it !"
"quoting you.i don't see the op getting corrected.on another note,hurricanes are vastly easier to tackle than drakes. missile ships are the bane of smaller speed tankers. for example, a hurricane is not going to do any damage to you even if you get webbed. however, drakes will still do damage to you even if you don't get webbed. additionally, hurricanes usually use 3 medium/2 light drone split, which does reduced damage to interceptors than 5 light drones that drakes usually field.and... sacrilege are not known for heavy missiles because it gets 25% more damage for hams (ship bonus)."
"thats because i havnt changed it yet.when ?when i feel like doing it.i am only going to update it for non relevant dominion ships and factor in the 33% of rof damage anyways.the current op understates the issues with kin bonuses somewhat as it assumes 25% for rof.most competent cane pilots fit a neut , drakes can too although a med neut on a drake requires more compromises, that aside if your minimum orbit distance is outside 12km ( neut range ) a cane will hit a ceptor , not everytime but it will still get hits every 20-30 seconds or so especially if the cane is mwd'ing and the ceptor is at a periapsis/apoapsis. if those are big hits then you could lose your ceptor. drakes damage against a fast orbiting ceptor are very low ( aml drakes excepted ) and if your the ceptor pilot you know exactly when to leave if you need to leave at all.so stating that constant damage is preferable to random damage is wrong.drones dont come into the arguments as we were talking about missile/gun constant damage v random damage.btw cane has 30m3 drone bay , 1 med & 4 lights or 6 light ( 1 reserve )poster stated that sac cant fit hml's which is incorrect."
"dav, bonuses get dropped all the time.let me think, armor bonus on brutix is ignored, many times on the command ships as well.damp bonus on gallente recons is often ignored.damage bonus on thorax is often ignored.i can think of a bonus on amarr frigates that gets dropped. punishers fitting autocannons instead of lasers.just to list a few. somewhere you said missile damage isn't high? i think it is. damage is dependent on range. missiles have lots of range. lots of range. and the damage done at range is alot. you get no penalty to damage at range, so getting slightly less damage than other systems (debatable) is a good tradeoff for being able to engage at any range, doing full (not losing damage for range) damage."
"brutix arazu/lachesis thorax & punisher all have fits that give 100% of there respective bonuses 100% of the time when using there respective combat tactics.cmb's do not."
"i'll grant you the hurricane point because i haven't done research on the likeliness of an interceptor getting hit at further ranges. however, i'd like to say that short range interceptors and tech 1 frigates, especially the ones with a small nosferatu, will be able to tackle and perhaps kill hurricanes with impunity. so the situation can go either way.arm kinetic missiles. there. oh, but i know what you're going to do. you're going to assert that pure kinetic missiles is not \"caldari's combat tactics.\"your argument is dumb, and you know it too.---stil harkonnen: \"sometimes ships with one usable bonus are still balanced. for example, the brutix. few uses its armor repair efficiency bonus, and none makes use of it in pvp combat.\"dav varan: \"but theoretically some random guy may strap an armor repairer on it and utilize its bonuses to their fullest extent!\"james tritanius: \"uh, if you fit kinetic missiles on the drake, you can get full bonuses out of that too.\"dav varan: \"yeah, but it conflicts with the caldari combat tactics (tm)!\"---since you'll probably call me troll for this and completely miss the point, i figured that i better include an explanation. and here it is: that was a mock conversation to illustrate the absurdity of your position."
"cmbs do have fits that give 100% of there respective bonuses 100% of the time when using there respective combat tactics. it's called \"use the missiles with racial damage ammo type\".edit: beaten by james regarding 1 and 2: do you have problem understanding your own text? in both cases i was referring to your statement which i actually quoted there: \"relevant to the ability of the ship it sits on ? yes of course it is.\" in compound sentence, the pronoun in second part usually refers to subject of previous one.i said: \"oh, so now other attributes are relevant, too.\"you concurred: \"relevant to the ability of the ship it (the ability of the ship) sits on ? yes of course it is.\"you say maller is tank modded ship, therefor it doesn't need damage increase? i can easily say the same about drake. the fact the drake gets bonus to caldari racial damage is a plus, not disadvantage as you claim to be. the same for apocalypse vs cerberus/caracal.but i'm repeating myself."
"up y'go!couldn't agree more that lowsec needs a major boost and these, for the most part, sound like great ideas."
"this needs to be fixed ccp."
"in my opinion...duh."
"supported!"
"1.0"
"signed! seems silly they didn't think of this already."
"how i see it is like this.your fleet commander is already in the system with a hostile gang enganged. ( blah blah not too much detail )you jump in, <U+FFFD> as an armour tank. you get your instant hp and are able to help out as a fleet.<U+FFFD> as a shield tank. you jump in with an increase of around 1hp/s shield recharge, however you do not receive the bonus of hp. you've lost out.the reason i think it should be applied instantly is that if you think about your argument that the extra shield recharge is enough to warrant not applying an instant hp increase. you need to consider the fact that, this is how shield tanks work. they have recharge, you can not change that without changing how you have the ships in eve."
"i use shield gang boosts with my buddies and like them the way they are. we fly hisec and are not usually involved in war. command ships are used when doing mission ops or cosmos sites etc. the recharge rate boost they give is much appreciated. we use a lot of passive shield tank ships. having a command ship lets us introduce new players to team activities that would otherwise be too high risk for them.i appreciate most of the earlier posters may be involved in nul-sec warfare. fair enough. however please remember that that is just one segment of the eve community. i think it is good that the various command ships have different functionality. the vulture is our command ship of choice for our hisec activities. i would be dissapointed if it lost the passive recharge bonus."
"hi! you like pve and thats great- np. but since the actual problem (ie this thread) is about shield bonus disparity in fleet pvp situations- well it kind of makes your whole post mute.lets face it- pvp and pve are different. the ships are differently fit- the tactics are different. the average pve'er isnt using a cap ship for instance.as for the pve \"what if\" it lost the fleet bonus to its passive tank. really? how much difference are we really talking here? the things can damn near survive in any lvl 4 with full room agro.in a perfect world everyone would realize that shield tanks have passive and active tanks going for them- and armor tanks have spider repping, better resists, better buffer going for them. the entire fleet bonus confusion is crap- in virtually 99% of pvp cases the passive recharge= donkey balls. when was the last time someone jumped into a fleet fight and said \"screw buffer, ive got 400 shield recharge per second\".the problem because game breaking obvious when you consider cap ships. you almost have to be semi ******ed to use anything that fires missiles anyway- on top of that you get the passive recharge rate of the average hollywood movie and no effective hitpoint bonus. sure you get the \"possibility\" of those hitpoints- and if your fleet fight was scheduled to allow you ten mins to rep up after jumping into system then your fine. if not they you should have skilled up armor tanking and brought the right ship.tl/dr- the entire crap about its balanced because of passive recharge is **** and lets face it- everyone making the argument knows it. you can not honestly tell me a few extra hp's a sec passive recharge is of relative value to say- a ****load more ehp's. not even close. *unless your one of those ****ing idiots that only flies a drake and then you can go **** yourself*"
"i agree tactics and ship fittings are different for pvp and pve activities.as i understand it the proposal is to make a change to shield gang boosts to benefit pvp activities.what i'm trying to point out is that this shouldn't be to the detriment of people who use shield gang boosts in pve activities, where the passive recharge rate boost is very useful.pvp and pve are both valid activities in eve."
"i agree with you. theres no reason the fleet bonus shouldnt give the passive shield regen bonus.the fleet bonuses (and spidertanking mechanics) aside- shields and armor are more or less balanced between themselves. meaning that neither one has a clear advantage over the other. in my opinion the shields should keep their bonused passive recharge and get the ehp's immediately from fleet bonuses.barring that- armor shouldnt get the effective hitpoint bonus. then shields and armor would have to rep up to take advantage of the potential ehp's.even though this prolly wont make it past csm- this is something i hope ccp notices and considers for a future change."
"supported"
"don't worry, i'm a programmer too. i can tell you right now it's simply not parsing the markup (for whatever reason). all they need to do is: a) start parsing markup entered into chat, b) parse markup entered from the clipboard, or c) discard markup at copy time.like i said, any of those would be acceptable. i just hate having to manually delete the tag garbage if i want to relay chat info.unfortunately, i get the feeling that this idea is too insignificant to be picked up by csm. i'll have to start looking for other chat-related suggestions and roll them up into one post."
"yes, this would definitely be awesome.trading faction items and the like would also be considerably easier."
"the point being made i think mp rhianna had nothing to do with income increasing to match the cost growth of replacing a clone.the issue being raised as i see it is, at some point for some players clone costs become an issue. in 0.0 it is very easy to loose a clone.the pros to this proposal is it opens up another type of game play to a certain type of player and has no negative effect i can think off on any play style in eve. and is a relatively minor change to a few database keys i imagine.i think the op is doing it right."
"not supported. maybe you young'ns are whining about a few million isk for your clone cost, but the point is to discourage you from making risky decisions with your pod.god, seems like people these days just want risk-free pvp on tranquility. if you have 120mil sp and can't make 30mil isk in a reasonable length of time, there is some serious fail going on with your playstyle."
"clone cost should eventually level out. i have 50mil sp, so i try to not get podded but on occasion it does happen. at the moment it doesn't bother me since implants are costing me more.i think if i ever got to 100mil sp it would be strongly discourage me from taking risk. i'd rather have more fights.hes in loony toons, what would you expect."
"not supported, for pretty much the same reason seth outlined above.another alternative if high-sp players are sufficiently bothered by this: they can sell their char and buy a younger cheaper one, and the isk difference would then keep their clones up-to-date for a good long time. /ben"
"well, so far everyone thinks this is an ok proposal. looking to drum up a little more support, maybe from some csm's?"
"yeah, being able to tell if a character has been sold to a new owner should be implemented. and the house-keeping with mail and other stuff sounds more than reasonable."
"good idea, supported"
"spot on!"
"this. supported."
"thanks drake,i did mention in the op that the current system of placing bounties would remain (-20.0 sec status i think)... true you couldn't put a bounty on a positive sec status player- but this is better than being able to put bounties on anyone i think.@jonah pod:\"online\" and \"nearby\" .... i believe if the nearby range was quite large.... 20-30 jumps, then this would be less exploitable. regarding online status this is just trying to add a bit of fun but i do see that it could be exploited.... if you came on straight after dt when there are very few ppl online. maybe no bounty contracts could be accepted in the first hour after dt... bounty office closed!in regard to your other points- this may not be the best system but as far as i can tell it seems to be the least exploitable so far... and thats the real problem at the moment.i also dont think the target should become aware when someone is given the contract to kill them.... maybe just when the initial bounty is placed on them (does this happen at present??)"
"noyou're dumb"
"if that's all you're gonna contribute, gtfo of this forum section."
"this would be an espionage system about a hundred times less useful than the buddy list and a locator agent. i'm not worried. so what you're saying is, these agents don't give you boring, predictable pve encounters, they actually make you fight players and gather your own intel? again, not worried, given that this is the entire point. surely there would be limits on who could get bountied. you're right, if it was just anyone i'd be opposed, but it presumably won't be. it should either be based on kill rights or sec status, preferably the former. nah, if you want npcs do do things for you, you need to do things for them, like missions. it's how it works for everything from refinery taxes to market listing fees. if you don't like grinding, there are people out there who sell standings. overall, a cool idea. it's not a complete system, but it's a good element of one."
"the proposal says:... and nowhere it states \"-x status or worse\" for free kill.definitely not supported, too easily exploited for free griefing. just spam the minimum bounty value on everyone you see in local, then try the agents. why not just wardec instead? wait, with wardecs the decced party also gets killrights...if the hunted at least also got a killright on the hunter when he accepts the contract, the proposal would still be bad, but less so."
"all agent-offered bounties ought to be standings based. characters with standings 0+ should not be bountied by an npc agent as this would make vulnerable new players. instead, the npc agent could list the three lowest-standing characters in the region with bounties of 100k isk or better per 0.1 standings below standings = 0. a character with a -0.3 standing would have a 300k isk bounty and one with a -0.9 standing would have a 900k isk bounty.but, no one above a standing of 0 would receive a bounty."
"i say drop all player made bounties and go straight to corp standing bounty missions. the most negative players to any npc corp's standings gets the highest bounty reward. many npc corp stations have bounty offices, just switch to mission generators and follow what the op said. 3 random targets - a small fry, a medium, then a big fish.if you want to play law man, work for concord and work sec status.its as simple as that. also add in special bounty rewards such as large sums of lp for that corporation and after enough kills decorations/medals and such."
"this is the first suggestion on overhauling the bounty system i've seen that actually looks like a good idea.supported!two conditions:placing a bounty is subject to an activation time (7 days?)targets have negative sec status or bounty can only be enforced in lowsec (to prevent abuse for ganking industrials)some of the opposition in this thread (\"but i don't know what ship the bounty will be flying\") sounds like carebear whining it's up to the bounty hunter to decide if they have the balls for their profession!"
"thanks for the feedback, dmac88 and herschel yamamoto :) however, still no support from me, even though i can understand your perspective. it's just that *i* try to imagine a bounty system interesting enough to make me becoming a bounty hunter...reading your comments, herschel yamamoto, i get the impression of no changes at all being necessary to the current bounty system. locating a target? \"easy, buddy list and a locator agent will do the job.\"this i doubt. grinders usually don't do pvp, so they probably miss the standings required to use the usable ones of the locator agents. this is why i proposed to allow easier access to locator agents - and may it be for the sole sake of bounty hunting (so others would still have to grind).picking an appropriate target? gathering intel? \"as usual\", you say, \"find him, follow him, get him\". that's the way it is now and it is obviously not fun enough ;) additionally, the names in the list are basically meaningless as i doubt \"passive\" or \"dead\" characters are being removed from it. also the reason for the bounty is unknown, etc. pp.this is - as far as i understood dmac88 - where the bounty agents come into the game. they shall provide you with a \"suitable\" (whatever this may exacly be, at least it should be \"alive\", \"in feasible distance\" and maybe other criteria) target with chances of finding it not being too close to infinite impropability.that's the point from an opposite perspective. in fact, this is what *i* would expect when starting hunting. but i'm not john doe and i expect especially new players (and old mission runners as well) to be absolutely not prepared. they would most definately take any bounty agent acting more or less the same as pve agents, finally offering pve like targets. big fun for the targets, for sure, but not for the hunters i guess ;) as i understood the op proposing an *addition* to the current bounty system, so the only limiting factor is your sec stat (which is ridiculous imho as this in turn provides you with an easy way to stay \"immune\" to being bountied all the time).let's add another addition to the bounty system and allow only real victims to place a bounty (i.e. you've been shot at, your ship and/or pod destroyed, whatever concord or ded may be able to find in their records) and force them to add a reason (maybe predefined, maybe not), plus drop the sec stat limit. this in conjunction with bounty agents might be way more interesting than the current system plus the agents only. just a spontaneous idea, though..."
"though not so extreme a rank. it's just a bigger fleet. maybe keep it at 12, or 13-14"
"sweet, a new leadership skill to max out!"
"precisely./ben"
"no. i think its a good limit because it forces such a massive fleet to have multiple commanders with excellent leadership skills. allowing one person to bonus across 1000+ people is ridiculous."
"okay, this attitude i simply don't understand. do you know how 0.0 fleet sizes are determined? you take everyone who can show up, and you put them in a fleet. it doesn't matter how much support or opposition there is from ccp, and it definitely doesn't matter how big the in-game fleets are, because everyone just uses vent to fc with anyways. the only difference that this would make is that the game would be less annoying, and there'd at least be a slight chance of people using in-game tools at least a little bit. this isn't about encouraging big fleets, it's about acknowledging reality and trying to help ease things a little with it instead of trying to resist it futilely."
"second this.whoever wants smaller fleets, shall make huge fleets pointless. until then, have the engine support what its breed asks for. ;)"
"not supported.while the current system my not reduce blobs, it does however, make you bring more fleet bonus trained pilots.allowing one guy to bonus 1200 people is ridiculous. needing multiple fleets means you need multiple titans and multiple fleet command ships."
"as for the pin, i do not disagree, but as it stands having an authenticator would do the job and keep things secure."
"authenticator should be mandatory, to reduce on ipo + \"i got hacked\" scams :p"
"no thanks , old hugs/raps were far to op in gate camps even with reliable mwd.now without reliable mwd any increase in ranged web power just takes us back to the bad old days."
"the real issue here is that warp scrams are once again powerful one slot two big boost modules like sensor boosters / damps / tracking computers etc used to be.yet ccp introduced them without script.therefor, not supported.webs in general are fine at 60%.minmatar recons could use a bit of oomph with 70-72.5% however."
"i don't know how to fit a full tackle onto a ship because i'm a total noob, or how to get into the right range. i want my battleship to be a solopwnmobile in low sec and i need stasis webs jacked up again to do it. please csm make this idea pass. i can't imagine having to fit a scrambler onto my ship and a webifier."
"i was watching a clip from battlestar galactica and i loved the missile effects in that along with the explosions. now i know that is pre-rendered cinematics and this is a game that has to be able to run at least decently on even basic, modern, integrated, non-intel graphics cards. however, i would love it if:a. the bright light, especially on larger missiles, is greatly reduced and possibly replaced with an actual model (yes i know there is a cone their but that is unseeable by the bright light),b. a smoke trailc. more emphasis on the smoke traild. smaller explosions in general but the explosions are more firey (or em-ery) that impacts different parts of the outside of the ship and not the center of the ship. and having a hundred torpedoes all against once target, all those explosions get very dull very quickly.e. i really don't care if their aren't visible launchers on the outside of the ship, but i don't want missiles to come out from different parts of the ship."
"bump"
"fine arguments, keep them coming...hmmm... thid sounds a bit like slave labour - go on, i like it ;) maybe just for faction crews, though?so as not to threaten your current comfortable status quo? i say more bonus but at higher costs. actually, this might be a means to address existing misbalances.agreed - crew experience should be untransferable or at most at a high penalty (reduced by 50% per transfer).again, why the fear? this is a major point of this proposal: create an incentive to keep a ship alive. of course, just parking a ship in station should not yield experience, fighting more than mining, and pvp more than pve, as risk should precede/increase reward."
"i think that this would help clear things up.make the server only update the state of the module at each cycle.allow a user to switch on and off as many times as they like, but if the model is off when it cycles it will be off till turned on, however if you turn it off and on again before the end of the cycle it will remain on.this seems fair, i understand that ccp might not like this as it can spam data to the servers but a change in code to get the state and apply it each cycle might be better? aswell with the current groups feature."
"supporting this. i know it's annoyed me a few times."
"this is a small change that carry a great improvement. small changes are the best changes"
"same here."
"it's especially fun in a close fight where you mis-click when trying to overheat something."
"freaking supported. hah..."
"hell yes, and i'll harass a certain csm to raise this"
"support. good idea."
"yes, earl grey please, and i'll have the chocolate cake with custard if you don't mind."
"allowing you to reactivate a mod while it is flashing red makes sense to me (maintaining cycle time of course)."
"i would like to see this."
"supported"
"great idea, i know i've wished it was implemented many a time when my mac's keys got stickyed."
"i'm kinda split on this. its a minor annoyance at worst. but eh, i ran into this last night with my active hardeners so i'll support, assuming its a quick and easy fix."
"makes sense to me."
"yeah it can be screwed up at times..."
"supported!"
"hi folks,here is a proposal to increase involvement in militias, create a stickier eve community, and probably have an incrementally positive impact on ccp revenue.it is a bit of an extension to the tax changes recently enacted.1) impose a small (maybe 3% - 5%) minimum tax on every corporation.2) player corporations then optionally choose to send that tax to one of the 4 militias. if they don't choose a militia, the tax goes to \"concord\". npc corporations are associated with their own race.3) divide each militia's tax receipts on a periodic basis (perhaps weekly) among the participants in the militia pro rata based on the value of ships each player has destroyed plus the value of ships that player has lost over some longer period of time (like maybe the last month).4) give players recognition/rank based on their individual financial contribution to the militia. please note that a player corporation's choice of race to support, or choice to remain neutral (concord) is important because it will have an effect on all members of that corporation as they are taxed and recognized for their contribution to the corresponding militia.5) allow players to donate to the militia (and thus the players fighting) again earning rank/recognition.i believe this will accomplish the following:1) move some players toward active pvp militia (community) play since they will get some financial reward for killing and being killed.2) create some anthropological sense of purpose and recognition for mission running (support of the cause).3) ultimately this will also increase asset destruction (via pvp) which should in turn increase demand for plex (and ccp revenue).comments?coffee wired"
"why not allow me to send my money to a 0.0 alliance of my choice?they also need money to fund their fights.or to the red vs blue corps.all in all i cant see why fw should get feed money from other players outside fw while the rest has to work for their funding."
"i'm all for better rewards for those who participate in fw, however, imposing a mandatory tax on all player corporations isn't necessary along with being a bad idea. why are you imposing a mandatory tax on all corporations? what's the justification? corporations that aren't involved in miltia warfare, a fairly small portion of the game in whole, shouldn't be required to give up some of their money in taxes to a cause that doesn't relate to them at all."
"not supporting."
"no, this is a terrible idea."
"not supported. socialism. obama."
"no support.instead, improve fw."
"this. and i've been in fw for around a year now.i don't want to tax other people's game experience for mine, i just want the mechanics of fw fixed."
"whi the hell players outside militia should pay to make players in militia have more fun?"
"the way i see it, the only arguements that people in favor of 'alt pocketing' (as i like to call it, using another character to perform a houdini to protect a supercap) is that it is already 'hard enough' to fly a super cap and that if people aren't ready to 'dedicate themselves to the super cap' they aren't 'fit to fly it'now is that an elitist opinion or what? it should take support from other players to own a supercap. it should be a team effort. nobody is doubting that people who have super caps have their own worries and woes. but it is entirely out of the spirit of gaming to have such a massive cop out and you heard me right. that is some major crap that somebody can just make a ship disappear. i don't think that it punishes super cap pilots to make their caps actually exist in the game when they're off. a newb pilot can dock in a station in empire, to protect his ship while he's offline. i don't see why a supercap pilot should be afforded the same luxury simply because he's willing to dedicate his money to an alt. it's metagaming. there are risks and rewards to a supercap, and if ccp wanted it to be so easy to store supercaps, they'd be able to dock in stations. if supercap pilots don't want to be dedicated to flying their supercap 24/7 there should be meathods in the game to allow them to do this without having to warp their cap into a non-existant pocket of the time space continuum.alt-pocketing makes storing a supercap far too easy. it's like a legal exploit.this is a load of crap. if super cap piloting is anything like you describe it is then not ever casual pilot can fly one. using alt pocketing is exactly the same as storing a supercap in a pos that is 100% safe, and i don't agree with either. nothing that valuable should be 100% safe anywhere, whether that is behind a pos force field or in a non existant void.at least storing a supercap behind a pos would make sense."
"i dont see how anyone can seriously use the nature of 1:1 fights as an argument against the arena idea. if you dont like 1:1 do teams or 0.0 blobs. anyway, depending on how much effort ccp will put into it, notice i did suggest the option of combat rules to be agreed on. whos to say it could not include ewar or whatever else you fancy."
"all you need is an area of space that prevents the use of remote-assistance modules and the ability to right-click, grant-aggression on any pilot you see."
"i'm split.on one hand, duel systems implemented in some other games have been amusing, as they allow the masses to watch two people go at it in 1v1 combat. it would also be an easy way to gain some pvp experience. lowsec roams are currently worse than fishing, as you tend to run through a dozen empty systems before getting wtfpwnd by a massive gang.on the other hand, seriously, just go to lowsec. if people would stop taking cans then those losers would have to go to lowsec for their fights as well. this will only further depopulate lowsec as instead of roaming for fights people will just sit in the arena. also, as has been said, it will be one continual whinefest of \"he didn't fight fair\" when someone just brings a well fitted ship. eve is not about being fair, which is the basic idea of this.so, overall, not supported. if it was just some sort of feature that allowed a 1v1 fight, maybe a contract that allowed temporary aggression. agree to fight, they go red for 15 mins or fight conclusion. anyone that reps them goes red as well, just as in a wardecs. but a full arena or complex system, no."
"i don't really support this one. as someone else said, the option to be dishonest is part of what makes eve special, and taking that away.. just feels bad.that said, though, 'can fishing' is stupid to me and all, especially from an rp perspecitve. maybe what would be better is a similar matchmaking system to the op's suggestion, only it supplies both participants with a bookmark to a random spot in the system. that'd keep the crowds from loitering around stations pointlessly and preserve the possibility of interference."
"i think your conserns are valid. however i do not think improvements to one area of the game should be held back because it would be so much fun people would not use other parts. if low sec need more people, either improve it or increase the isk reward of low sec."
"this comes up once a week, no thank you, you can already do this on the test server."
"support. this is game destroying. the other day in d-g we had hundreds of pilots wait up to 45 minutes for the grid to load before giving up and logging out. many got kill mails the next day saying they died 30, 45, even 60 minutes or more after the logout. this is insanely broken.thing is, aaa did not appear to be effected by this at all. they were able to finish killing the station then warp to us and kill us before we could kill the sbu which has far fewer hp."
"see you here i guess?"
"idea: update and restructure the market so that visibility and availability of player tradable items will be higher to the eve communityexample: removal of all t2 blueprint items in the market (i.e. recon ship blueprints), addition of bpc's to the market, addition to higher meta level items to the market (i.e. faction and officer modules [cap boosters was a good start]), ectreason: to decrees the learning curve for new players with respect to item procurement, and to spur more supply and demand with respect to the secondary producer market (qen) and end consumer items.pros: creates new markets for player trading increase the availability and visibility of secondary producer and consumer items for new and old players alike decrease the reliance of the contract system, and increase the visibility of price history for statistics and trading purposes. cons: price fluctuations within the market system 3rd party programs/websites will need to be updated (i.e. eve-central)"
"removing t2 bpos i can support, on the condition that we get an easy item search feature. it's absurd that the best way i have of looking up stats on a hictor blueprint is to type in a chat channel something like abroadsworda and autolink the \"broadsword\" bit, click my link, and then delete the whole thing and repeat it again for anything else i want to look up(the a's are there as padding, so that the link goes away when i delete the text, instead of attaching itself to whatever i type in that window next). but yes, assuming we have a way to search up the blueprints taken off the market that isn't idiotic, i support that change. nobody holds a packed t2 bpo any more. addition of higher-meta items to market? sure. i've supported this for a while.addition of bpcs to market? lol, no. it's completely impractical. do you have a market for each me/pe/run combination possible, or do you throw them all in together and have a meaningless hash? this needs to be done through contracts, as do rigged ships, full containers, and the like."
"easy: make all in game items searchable in the market finder, but don't show the normal market interface for contract-only items, instead a link the contracts for that item."
"what i see happen in my corp, and i am certain that this happens in corps all over new eden, some one logs on for the first time that day and they proceed to ask around what everyone is doing. unless the other corp members are not involved in fleet actions they won't be keeping a close eye on the chat windows other than what it mission critical.what i propose is an idea that borrows from a popular social networking site: a concept called \"status update.\" an extra tab in the corp window that automatically or manually updates to what everyone in the corp and/or alliance are doing. location of fellow corp members can be updated automatically but i am thinking that other actions can be updated automatically by monitoring what the pilot is using and what kind of enemy they are up against whether their enemy is pirate corp, 0.9 security rats, or glacial asteroids. this is just a rough idea of course."
"similar ideas have been proposed in the past. i'm all for it, myself. that said, i expect it'll be part of ccp's planned social networking upgrades which, last i heard, are coming in over the next year or so."
"corp spies best friend"
"sounds good. definitely make it optional, maybe since you're basing it off social networking allow the person to manually change it (this would also allow you to put up extended away messages, ie: \"rl stuff. won't be logging on again until ___\") while you're at it, use permissions like allowing people on your buddy list (or certain subsets of it) to see it as well.as to spies, better be careful in recruiting... and don't broadcast anything too important."
"i thought i did a thorough enough search for similar suggestions. i apologize if i sound like a broken record. as for it being a corp spy's best friend, mechanics can be implemented into the feature to keep your updates to only certain people, corp members that have been with the corp certain amount of days, or have it turned off completely. i am thinking that there will be controls on the corp director level as well at on the pilot level."
"i see what you're saying, but it just looks like a straight up intel feed for spies.this is easily accomplished by answering a question, understanding the environment of the corp through corp bulletins and evemail (i.e. wars, mining schedule, etc.).i think the tradeoff here of convenience for exposure is just not worth it.not supported."
"csm has recently raised and passed an upgraded account security proposal (in fact it is on the iceland summit agenda for discussion with ccp).please take a look *here*"
"although i would support noobs being able to get their hands on a procurer at very low levels, i couldn't figure out anyway to alter the skilltree to get less days to the procurer without it becoming too complicated. however, i did just think that it might help the procurer if it had a reduction in cycle time bonus.honestly, this suggestion was just sort of (this doesn't make sense, way take so much to train to procurer?). to really make the procurer useful, it does need bonuses."
"i like this idea i really do, just needs to be more refined. as a bonus to gas mining it makes me support this idea even more."
"lost meme"
"so basically people spammed way to many. make outpost self-destructible. qualifiershave sov for 100 days cost 1 billion isk to initiate self-destructself-destruct takes 30 days to complete. ( can be aborted )during self destruct phase docking is available to all of new eden. ( save tears over omgz im gonna lose my stuffs)feed it into the eve api system so it can go out to dotlan etc.create a news section on the main page of the eveonline site that shows what outpost are currently slated for self-destruct.less donges and buttes please"
"nobody will ever blow up a station they own if there's a 30-day timer. this is just a waste of time to code. outpost destruction has to be at the attacker's discretion, not the defender's, to be meaningful. if you're going to do this at all, go back to the proposal csm1 passed."
"with the amount of outposts, them being tied to sovereignty in a way where they are at the focal point of sov warfare, and the fact they are also \"permanent\", this also leaves no real option to just go through a region burning everything. either you conquer and use a station (or have a pet/renter use it) or it eventually gets retaken by its previous owners. in short, i support any and all possibilities for outpost destruction"
"sov for 100 days, suredecommision timer, suredocking rights 0_ocost 0_oinstead of a self-destruct, i'd like to think of it more of a decommision. no cost, and you get back 50% of the materials used to build it, so you can sucessfully pillage a region. during this 30 day count down, i think stuff in private hangers should be automatically moved to the nearest station regardless of it being npc or not. goods in expired corp hangers can die.either way, still like to see a feature to take down some stations/outposts"
"disagree with the first part. if you don't want to own so many outposts, don't claim so much space.as for the second part, this was already dismissed by ccp as too hard during csm1 as herschel has already pointed out. therefore, no point in supporting this even if i agreed with it./ben"
"heh you guys really don't want to pay for all those stations in providence."
"there have been better proposals and ccp has stated they wont allow full destruction.outposts in itself dont cost any upkeep."
"such a new totally new topic the linked thread has other threads linked with dev replies on the topic.cva asked ccp before dominion if they can add something to get rid of outposts.oh and not supported"
"why the node doesn't place a player on a grid after all data has been processed and sent is one hell of a mystery, eh? these instances are actually server failure, not lag, as the required information seems to end up never getting sent to the client. formulate petitions as such. \"lag\" is a keyword quickly picked out of the petition and given a default response by the bot ccp uses."
"see you here i guess?"
"so you've got 2 options:1. as it is now, and as it was ever since beginning of eve - you either jump into system risking black screen (where you can do some steps to minimize the lag effect) and accepting that you can die before you can do anything,or your proposal:2. every time you need to defend a system, you jump every man and his dog onto a node until it crashes and ccp reimburses all your loses while doing so.it's a widely known fact, that you get lagged out even to a point where you can't do anything if you try logging in or jumping into a system that's already overloaded.it's been like that since day 1. it got a bit better in last couple patches but then something broke again in dominion. but it's also been a ccp policy, that they don't reimburse losses in large fleet fights, as if you jump into one you should know that the server may not handle that and you may end up lagged out."
"while eventually i would like to see the eve gate opened, it should not be until the jovian story is played out.i feel eve gate is almost the end game to the eve universe. jovians will start showing up eventually which will add a rpg element back into the game with thier effect on the empires, new tech trees and new missions within faction warfare.when earth/terra re-opens the gate it needs to be an \"invasion\" of a capital \"i\" by a race with unrestricted tech growth and the resources of a unified universe behind it.empires unite, some die ... betrayals based on out comes of player interaction within the game.i want to see sec statues shift as a war rages through out core (0.1 jita anybody?) .have null sec alliances be affected, system gates and infrastructure destroyed if not defended. massive mobile hostile outposts (worholes) appear in the middle of delve (etc) spawning armadas requiring fleets to destory, unique tech drops."
"his signature is the link to the thread. for those who don't have sig enabled or read while not logged in, click here."
"even with 3 x magstabs, mega does not do as much damage as apocalypse and has less buffer as well. so i presume you agree that railguns need a damage increase?"
"supported."
"with ~150km optimal and 2 damage mods(rokh gets 3 cause it's shieldtank) as the general guideline for sniping bs rokh(8*425)spike to lock range 180+km(224+39), 306 dps, 1688 alphanavy iridium 149+39km, 308 dps, 1699 alphamega(7*425)spike only3 magstab 149+39km, 335 dps, 1847 alpha2 magstab + te 168+49km, 299 dps, 1747 alphaapoc(7*tach)aurora 188+32km, 312 dps, 2287 alphanavy microwave 146+32km, 269 dps, 1972 alphaapoc(8*mbeam)aurora 171+26km, 331 dps, 1742 alphanavy radio 152+26km, 238 dps, 1252 alphatempest(6*1400) tremor 140+72km, 320 dps, 5811 alphafrom those i'd say aurora is too good for its range and rails are at least 5% weak in damage."
"hmm your stats are bad because sniper fits have 3 dmg mods and aimed for 180-190km range not 150km.also nobody realy tanks now as dd is the past."
"rokh and mega already have 3 damagemods, rokh and apoc are already at 180-190, mega isn't going to get more damage then at 150 for sure too. at 180-190 mega will be left way behind others. and you still don't want to go under 48000 ehp on lowest resist because of bombers"
"does not amke a difference, you can just as well compare ships with no magstabs, since they increase dps of all ships by the same amount."
"imho it makes a difference because he used 2 for apoc and tempest and 3 for mega and rokh.the range makes difference also. the rokh needs 1-2 tc just to able to use iridium at 190km, while the others will just change to t2 ammo."
"so, let me get this straight, you agree that when using fittings that let all 4 bs have an optimal of 180-190 optimal, 3 damage mods each, and a buffer or roughly 14k, we are using the proper benchmark?do you also agree that the numbers for dps at that range are the following? (all are t2 ammo)apoc: 372 @193+33, 14.6k armortemp: 370 @ 140+72, 13.9k armormega: 351 @ 183+58, 13.5k armorrokh: 321 @194+30, 13.9k shieldalso for reference:zealot: 299 @ 93+13 (aurora), 21k ehpmunnin: 312 @ 81+22 (tremor), 25k ehpdeimos: 235 @ 84+37 (spike), 20k ehpeagle: 235 @ 79+25 (uranium), 19.5k ehpafter benchmarking the ships, it is obvious that the numbers support a 10-15% damage increase for railguns. i'd say 15% is closer to the mark because the mega could do with a dcu ii and the only way to get it is to drop a magstab, bringing it in line with the rest. on that note, i also believe that apocalypse could do with an extra 30 cpu. by the way, munnin is absolutely sexy after the projectile re-engineering.if you look at eagle and deimos, they badly need the damage increase."
"yep agree 3dmg modes and 180-190 range is a good benchmark, althou i like to use ehp more than buffer.your stats seems corret more or less. and i would bring those snipe hacs to 100-110km as 80-90km is for snipe bcs.it is obvious that rail ships are way weaker and need a boost, especially the eagle/deimos.what i dont agree with is that 15% dmg boost, anyway it is ccp who should balance them out not us, we only need to present the issue to csm then then will hopefully present it to ccp. thats all.imho hybrid ships+weapons should be redesigned,chaning 1-2 stats wont fix them at all :)for example your 15% dmg idea only would bring their dps closer to amarrs while still having so many more disadvantages over them,and matars have other specialties like no cap use and doing huge alpha."
"it can be done.[abaddon]tracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iiheat sink iiheat sink iireactor control unit iidamage control iiquad lif fueled i booster rocketssensor booster ii, targeting rangesensor booster iiheavy 'brave' capacitor booster, cap booster 800tachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora l'pacifier' large remote armor repair system ilarge capacitor control circuit ilarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump i"
"it can be done. this is just to prove it can be fit. not really a good fit. but it is comparable to a rokh up to 170km, despite using 3 high slots for reps, simply because tachs are that powerful.[armageddon, dps]tracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iiheat sink iiheat sink iipower diagnostic system iipower diagnostic system iidamage control iiquad lif fueled i booster rocketssensor booster ii, targeting rangesensor booster ii, targeting rangetachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora ltachyon beam laser ii, aurora l'pacifier' large remote armor repair system i'pacifier' large remote armor repair system i'pacifier' large remote armor repair system ilarge capacitor control circuit ilarge capacitor control circuit ilarge capacitor control circuit i"
"i don't expect them to ignore the importance of armor and i've repeatedly stated the point. in fact the entire reason why 15% is reasonable instead of 20-30% is because armor's more important and maintaining beams as the higher damage dealing weapon. as previously explained the difference in damage between is 65% which is huge and if rails were expected to be an equal weapons system you'd need to boost their damage by at least 32%, 38% actually if you're including reload times in your dps calculation. we're asking for less then half of that in respect to:1. armor tanking is more important then shield tanking2. tachyon beams have heavier fitting and cap requirements3. rails have greater rangemy damage calculations are all worked from my original guns focused setups since they provide a more consistent benchmark to work from and as i've already pointed out the rokh's range bonus ends up becoming a fitting bonus thanks to it's ease at reaching long ranges with as much damage as it can muster. also as previously pointed out the apoc can sell down some of it's ample damage to achieve ehp parity with a tier 3 ship with a bonus to resists thanks to the potency of 1600mm plates.unfortunatly iridium does less damage then spike unless you get into faction ammo, t2 ammo is really the bane of the rokh and while it needs less tc is needs more damage mods because unlike range, you can never have enough damage.you can mark that one down for 401 dps @ 188km with the same armor.[apocalypse, full tach damage 58k ehp]3x heat sink ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates itracking enhancer iidamage control iireactor control unit ii2x sensor booster ii, targeting rangecap recharger iiquad lif fueled i booster rockets2x tachyon beam laser ii, aurora llarge algid energy administrations unit i2x large ancillary current router ihow many high damage, decent range and/or ehp setups do i have to come up with for the apoc anyways?"
"has anyone mentioned that the original bonus for the drake was going to be a 5% rof but ccp changed it to a 5% kinetic damage as they deemed the rof bonus was excessive."
"if you think that using one type of ammo is the optimal way to fight in a cmb then i'm not surprised you dont get it.sorry , but thats a nub attitude and shows a complete lack of understanding of the game."
"if you think that armor active tank is the optimal way to fit a brutix then i'm not surprised you don't get it.sorry, but that's a nub attitude and shows a complete lack of understanding of irony and hypocrisy."
"if you think that using only fits with repairer is the optimal way to fight in a brutix then i'm not surprised you dont get it.sorry , but thats a nub attitude and shows a complete lack of understanding of the game.see? i can throw poo poo like that, too.ps: i never said it was optimal way.edit: heh, i completly missed the james' post. shame on me."
"i also vaguely remember that first prototypes of hurricane had 7 turret hardpoints and myrmidon with 125 m3 bandwidth. but thanks for putting it up and proving my point from few post backwards: giving drake all-around bonus would make it overpowered."
"lets change the topic to change minmatars dmg bonuses only for explosive ammos , because that is their racial."
"it already is."
"running out of arguments are you? then let's go off topic for a while. that's the right way how to \"win\" a discussion.i have a proposal for you: make a topic, in which:- how the switchable damage type makes minmatar overpowered- how is proposed change justified from balance standpoint- if should be proposed change applied to caldari gunboats, too- and finally, how the change won't turn minmatar to utter ****(or rather not, we don't need another troll topic in assembly hall)"
"running out of arguments? no not realy , it is just a one liner comment,which comes from your point of view why kinetic bonus is fine. - how the switchable damage type makes minmatar overpoweredusing the your thinking this shows that current matar bonuses dont encourage to use their racialy dmg type and they will be fine with explosive ammo bonuses only.- how is proposed change justified from balance standpointwe already posted many times how the porposal is justified , caldari kinetic bonus only gives 8% dmg at lvl5, if you average out the target resists.- if should be proposed change applied to caldari gunboats, toowhy caldari gunboats relevant to missile boats or matar?i realy dont understand how you brought this into here.- and finally, how the change won't turn minmatar to utter ****so you think that changing matar bonus would \"turn minmatar to utter ****\", right?(or rather not, we don't need another troll topic in assembly hall)it is you who are trolling , all arguments you came up are this: caldari kinetic bonus is fine because thats their racial favour dmg type. strange using the same reasoning against minmatar finnally is wrong, why is that? i tell you why because you are an anti-caldari matar fanboy thats it."
"-- running out of arguments? no not realy , - it is just a one liner comment,which comes from your point of view why kinetic bonus is fine. then explain to me how you came from my \"changing kinetic bonus would make cmbs overpowered\" to your \"how about ner"
"2.5% rof. half the bonus. yes?"
"-- running out of arguments? no not realy - it is just a one liner comment,which comes from your point of view why kinetic bonus is fine. then explain to me how you came from my \"changing kinetic bonus would make cmbs overpowered\" to your \"how about nerfi"
"challenge? gladly. your homeworks (or op) is to figure out, what's wrong with the math. there are 6 mistakes there, i wonder if you find them.first1. let's assume you come to equal distribution of enemy target types (op makes same assumption)2. let's assume you have you don't have to deal with secondary tank (op makes same assumption, ignoring fact that best damage against t2 amarr shield is em)3. let's assume no resist holes were filled (op makes same assumption, plugging exp hole on t2 gallente armor makes worst resist em)4. let's assume highest t2 resists (op ignores fact that there are t2 ships with lowest kin resist other than minmatar)5. let's assume you exactly know what your target before engegment, so missile user can preload missile (as does op)resists areem/therm/kin/exp engagement type according to op75/50/40/60 minmatar t2 shield50/35/65.5/80 amarr t2 armor50/67.5/83.75/10 gallente t2 armor0/80/70/50 caldari t2 shield0/20/40/50 t1 shield50/35/25/10 t1 armoraccording to op, using average value is correct statistical method to evaluate performance over different engagementson average missile user able to switch damage type faces 15% resist.on average blaster user faces 51% resist.iirc, heaavy neutron blaster ii at max skills with t1 antimatter deals 42 dpsheavy assault launcher ii at max skills with any t1 missile deals 30 dpsso, on average blaster deals about 21 dps to different targets, while ham do 25.5.qed.the actual math behind:(40 + 35 + 10 + 0 + 0 + 10)/6 = 15%(50*5 + 40*7 + 35*5 + 65.5*7 + 67.5*5 + 83.75*7 + 80*5 + 70*7 + 20*5 + 40*7 + 35*5 + 25*7) / 12 / 6 ~= 51.55 = thermal damage of antimatter7 = kinetic damage of antimatter12 = total damage of ammo6 = number of different engagement types"
"i've seen this argument getting thrown around quite a bit, and i'll respond to it.it's quite obvious, really. of the ships your proposed change will affect, the drake is the most popular. in fact, i'm going to wager that it sees more uses than all the other ones combined. doesn't it seem very stupid to ignore the ship that will be affected the most?"
"if thats true then your forgetting one thing , the drake originally had 20% more shield recharge which got nerfed due to whiners saying that the drakes tank could not be broken by a solo bs ( geddon most often quoted iirc )the drake has been weekened since it original conception and bonus assignation.so no that statement if true proves nothing about the current state of play.a rof bonus as jt pointed out is 33% more dps at lvl5the drake now in its weekened state with 20% less tank could and probably should get its fp increased to compensate for its loss of tank , something that was not done at the time.a dpl on the drake would be better than rof as dpl is only 25% at lvl 5.essentially a 15% increase over current performance to make up for the 20% tank it lost to whiners."
"oh i see you completly ignored the rest of my post, and went with the \"oh i can post something totally irrelevant ,because that would prove that dav's calculation is wrong --> kinetic bonus is fine\" somehowfirst it would only proove that dav's initial assumtions are bad,i can agree with that, but it wouldnt proove that he is wrongthere has to be some terms or there would be just too many variables and you couldnt get a clear view at the end at all.now about your post:so you agree that blasters are crap ?:d nobody said weapons are balanced. thats nothing new.thats why balancing are made with ships + fits used, not lone modules.so if we add +5%/lvl kinetic dmg for ham and +5%/lvl dmg for blaster the result will be different.lets see how :if i dont use kinetic missiles i loose 20% dmg right? so lets add as +20% for every non kinetic resist and what type of missiles would be the best:blaster will remain the same.40% kinetic minmatar t2 shield48% thermal amarr t2 armor28% explo gallente t2 armor20% em caldari t2 shield20% em t1 shield25% kinetic t1 armorbase missile dmg with lvl5 boni =42*1.25=52.5base blaster dmg with lvl5 boni =30*1.25=37.5now the average resist against missiles = 30.166%the average resist agianst blaster is the same as in your post = 51.5from that the ham edps = 25.62 from previous:25.5 that is 2.66% dmg increase at lvl5 it is worse than dav's :dblasters average dmg = 25.46 from the prev 20.4 that is 25% dmg increase at lvl5see one race gets 25% dmg at lvl5 the other gets 2.66% at lvl5 if you use the initial terms.there are a lots of other variables which could be added.or you could bring chart table about ships used so we can weight those resist to get a better result.bottom line , we should compare fitted ships like cerb vs zealot or caracal vs vexor."
"o/ hey dudethanks for all the support along the way i do appreciate it.something you should be aware of here.these are not my calculations.these numbers are from lumy and any assumptions he is making are his own.i have never made assumptions about people hitting against base resists.the guy is just trolling at this point it seems, making **** up and trying to pass it off as related to the op."
"yeah but i havent seen any vagabonding/sabreing when projectiles were boosted, also no geddoning or what was the favourit ship for them when amarr was boosted. those changes affected those already awesome ships aswell. still those changes made most caldari/gallente ships obsolete.also the drake is a special caldari ship because it works. it is fittable has many slots( can spare some for tackle)and launchers + has drone bay. and its bonus is not kinetic dmg+ 10% missile velocity /lvl as the other missile boats.if its resist bonus would be changed to missile velocity it wouldnt be the best bc nor would it be the 2nd best.and in eft it has good dmg and good tank compared to other bc's. oh any most ppl use eft more often than their brains that is said.thats all it is good at fighting other bc-s solo or very small gang with ham fit.with hml fit it suddenly isnt that good due to missile delay,its tank is still nice.but look at the other cmbs , those are crap,none of them realy does anything good or great, except aml fits.dav: yeah i havent looked at the whole thread as it is already 18 pages long, i have taken what he wrote as granted."
"i do agree that some of the caldari ships listed need to be buffed. however, the only ship that i have problem with is the drake. i think i have made my position clear in a couple of posts a few pages back.- you, yourself, have said that drakes are already awesome as is. additionally, some people find them to be overpowered. - you are advocating for a change that will buff drakes.do you not see a problem with that? i do. drakes don't need to be buffed, period.---oh, and i'm about to give up on dav, because:a) he doesn't concede points that he loses.b) he blatantly ignores our strong arguments.c) he cherry-picks his data set.d) he throws up smoke and screams troll to just about everything."
":)a) points conceded so far of the top of my memory.. you were right about rof and dpl not being equivelent , conceded straight away in my very next post.. drake may be too powerful , you \"may\" be right about that.however thats not a reason for keeping the kin bonus ( as stated in the op the issues with kin bonus are not just about ship balance , but the other issues with it as well ).if a rof is too powerful for the drake try a dplif dpl is too powerful for the drake try explosion vel or missile vel.as with any post its not up to us to state what the fix should be,the op recomends rof or dpl as those are the most equivelent to other races damage bonuses.please remember we are just interested in rasing the issue for the attention of the devs, they are the one's who will look to see if the issues raised are correct and what the appropriate fixz should be.b) i blatently argue against counter arguements that use lies , half truths or misconceptions.misconceptions such as ( firing only kin ) is the optimal caldari combat tactic.c) no data has been cherry picked as far as i am aware , would you care to elaborate ?d) when people such as yourself post stuff attributed to me or the op that i have never said , you will be treated like a troll.you yourself did you not in a previous post , take both sides of the arguments pretending to speak for me. how is that supposed to be treated as a constructive serious response ?.i know why you did it of course , you have become frustrated by your inability to trip me up.5 or 6 of your posts have attempted to garner a phrase from me that you can point to and go lol, i am well aware of the tactics you are trying to use to rubbish this topic.the reason you have failed on 5 or 6 occasions and had to resort to making up a conversation for me is not because i am good at ducking issues or am some kind of linguistic genius.the reason you counter argements keep failing is i happen to be right and the op happens to be accurate.in fact you know the op to be accurate , if a rof/dpl bonus was not more powerful than a kin bonus you would not be here argueing against the kin bonuses replacement would you ?"
"the rof/dps bonus is more powerful than a kinetic bonus, but that in no way makes it ok to give caldari ships this bonus. yes the bonus is more powerful, but it would make some caldari ships too powerful and wouldn't boost other ships enough. the issue isn\"t the bonus. the bonus is fine. caldari don't need a stronger bonus they need some of their ships to be re-thought out.we aren't frustrated with our inability to trip you up, we're frustrated with the fact that you seriously think you're 100% right and can't possibly be wrong. and to support your 100% correct-ness, you're fabricating averages and using \"facts\" that are in no way facts, but opinions, and often factually incorrect.your cherry picked data is that you only get 8% averaged at level 5. well, our cherry picked data says that missiles do more dps averaged out than blasters! boost blasters it's not fair we're not the best! and we can't choose whatever damage we want and we can't do full damage at any range! wtfffff no fair :(( your also cherry picked a fact about your less dps than other weapon systems. the fact is that dps varies with range. blasters short range get more dps. missiles relatively long range get slightly reduced dps, but the comparative dps at their range is probably greater than other ships would get at same range.we are not makeing misconceptions that kinetic is optimal damage type. we're just saying that's the only one you should get bonused to. kinetic isn't optimal damage tpe for blsters, and neither is thermal tbh. i want explosive ammo for my brutix and thorax. hut we can't even choose to use unbonused ammo! caldari has something special, you can pick to fire whatever pure damage you want to, and you do quite a bit of damage.sooo all your friends like naomi who are struggling to provide solid arguments and not just spewing out incoherent words and babble with zero or false reasoning, are trolls? al the people who are on your side of the argument but don't use arguments stated in the op are trolls?"
"both lumy and james are fine,they make arguments, not like you. you are just trolling, go away stil harkonnen nobody needs you and nobody wants you here."
"caldari do need a stronger bonus.8% is not enough to compete with 25% , 33% and 50% handed out to other weapons systems.the bonus is not fine for the above reason.no one said you were frustrated i was talking specifically to jt.no dude you have it the wrong way round, i have brought analysis and maths and stats to the table, it is generally the op's detractors who waves there arms around and make unsubstanciated claims. youve not supplied any data whatsoever , again all youve done is offer unsubstanciated claims.grow up.if you think i am wrong about the 5% kin being equal to 8% dps at lvl 5 then what do you think its worth and why ?no one here , not me , not you , not anyone has claimed that there arnt differences in the damage envelopes of different weapons systems.it is irrelevant. bonuses are assigned as a percentage.to keep things in balance across skill levels the size of the percentage needs to be the same.yes go back read previous posts , argument to rubish my claim that the kin bonus is not compatible with cmb tactics were built on the premise that cmb's should always fire kinetic, which is wrong."
"couple of quick replies to some unanswered stuff i missed (page/post/number if applicable):17/510/1 - because in current neither minmatar or caldari can switch damage type perfectly. for short range ammo minmatar can deal only 83.3%(pp)/83.3%(f)/75%(emp) of optimal damage and only 16.6 % of kinetic. midrange it's only 75% for kinetic and 37.5% thermal or explosive. long range it's 80% for kinetic/explosive and 60% em. t2 are only exp/kinetic (long range variants are exceptionally important for anything but blasters) . so don't speak about minmatar like they are some kind damage switching masters. pure 100%/80%/80%/80% of caldari is imho much better option.17/510/2 - kinetic bonus doesn't take away anything. same as brutix' active tanking bonus doesn't take away it's ability to buffer tank.17/510/6 - wanna examples? drake compared to any other bc, cerberus compared to sacrilege.17/510/7 - there are several issues with caldari ships, kinetic damage bonus is not one of them.18/513 - buffing a ship just because it got (deserved) nerf at some point? that's hilarious argument. maybe we should increase speed of minmatar ships to counter nano nerf. or we should increase damage of lasers to counter stacking penalties (look up gankageddon). we should also increase tracking of all ships because at ancient times times there was no tracking (bss could hit anything within range) 20% tank it lost to whiners 18/514/1: fixing now, as you see.18/514/rest: so even at level 5 with \"lousy\" kinetic bonus, hams have average damage higher than blasters, supposedly highest damage weapon. on top: no cap need, longer range, no tracking problems. giving 20% + damage on top is totally justifiable.18/514/bottom line: yes, please, do so! don't ask for over-all buff without examining the \"issue\" case by case. do you remember what happened after last amarr buff?18/515/middle: then explain to me how are you dealing with all those anomalies in op. just because you don't mention them doesn't make them cease to exist. how do you guarantee equal distribution of engagement types over long time? (*hint* you can't)18/516/end: yeah, i'm a troll alright. maybe i should call you \"raving caldari fan-boy\" (*wink* at naomi)18/518/b: that's your misconception. no one but you ever mentioned caldari should fire \"only\" kinetic missiles.18/518/d: funny you say that. i have opposite feeling (b)18/518/rest: nope, you're just being ignorant. you are arguing a claim no one (but you) has made. nobody argues that kinetic only damage is weaker than all around bonus or rof bonus. our major points are- not every ship has to use it's bonuses at all circumstances.- proposed change would make several caldari ships overpowered, especially drake.18/521/1: wrong18/521/2: brought analysis and maths and stats to the table: do you have any verifiable data sets to support your distribution of engagement type (1:1:1:1:1:1) to back up your claim?(for those who didn't have even a single lecture of statistics: even if you rmethods and math are correct, without verifiable data the result will be always poo. you can polish the poo, as proved on myth-busters, but it remains poo nevertheless)18/521/4: bonuses are assigned to ship case by case. if the ship is strong, the ship doesn't need damage increase (maller, apocalpse). sometimes the bonus is associated with the weapon system - rof for projectiles, dmg for hybrids. sometimes even 66.6% percent damage increase doesn't guarantee ship superiority (tempest).spin it all you want, but your claim \"kinetic damage bonus is weak\" is irrelevant as long it's not associated with specific ship."
"well, when posted in ideas and features it got trolled to death by 1 guy and his alts, so it will be left here.more support folks, more ideas..."
"trolling thread by request of the op. supports with your alts don't count, you know that right?ps: drop #7 and i'll support. lowsec does need a boost of some sort, but crippling the markets in empire isn't the way."
"mate, these are suggestions for discussion, not an i want list, all you had to say was, yes i agree, but not to number 7! some like the idea, some dont, its just that; an idea. what we want is more suggestions, more ideas, counter ideas and proposals to get lowsec more interesting and engaging.none of my alts are here..lol, i dont have 45 accounts..."
"wts reading comprehension skillbook, 100m."
"yes.. so support it, with the note that you dont like no. 7it isnt gonna get removed as an idea.. doesnt mean it would be in any final draft..."
"1.0"
"as convenient as this would be, i have to say i vote no. t3 subsystems are not the same as swapping modules, you're actually cracking open the hull and making major modifications. i see the need to put the ship in a hangar as similar the putting an ocean ship in dry-dock to do major hull work. maybe if specialized pos facilities were created for this, including temporary housing for the crew (who can't stay in the ship while it's open to space) and if it took a lot longer than just swapping a module..."
"sweet jesus do this please."
"this don't need to be in game...there should be some sacrfices made when live in wormhole and not being able change subsystem on easy mode ship is one of them."
"since first posting this proposal, many issues have been fixed and i want to thank ccp and the sound team for that. i also edited this post multiple times and moved fixed items to the second post. however, we still have some sound issues left, which i will describe below.- positional sound introduced with apocrypha ( verified ).issue :since the change of positional sound in apocrypha, the balance of sound effects has gotten worse. pre-apocrypha the balance was pretty good. some items, like outgoing fire, have been tweaked since then, and together with latest bufixes work pretty well. however we can still not hear explosions of destroyed ships or buildings as close as 3000 meters. therefore the weight of explosions should be increased alot. when destroying a large building from 70km the explosion should still be heard, as was the case pre-apocrypha.also incomming enemy fire fades away too fast ( when zooming out ), outgoing turret fire on the other hand stays audible long enough ( even when zoomed out quite far ), so that has been improved.quote from one of the posters on this thread :\"i remember back in 2004, when sounds worked great.zoomed in = loud, plus you could here what was after you in the distance.zoomed out = just a little bit of everything.. \"solution :1. give us an option to keep the sound with the ship, regardless of camera position.2. further tweak positional sound to simulate the pre-apocrypha situation.- targetting ( verified ).issue : often only the first tick is heard and then targetting goes silent. targetting acquisition on the other hand always works.solution : bugfix.- sansha battleship ( unverified ).issue : there's an issue in which after a sansha battleship rat in 0.0 fire at you, there will be this deafening laser sound that makes voice comms rather hard, no matter how much you zoom out.solution : bugfix.- alpha strikes ( verified ).issue : often with alpha strikes, the turret shooting sound is not heard.solution : bugfix.- jukebox with multiple accounts ( unverified ).issue : when adjusting jukebox settings ( like turning it on or off ) these settings are saved for all accounts.example : turn on jukebox for account 1 and turn off for account 2, log on with account 1 and the jukebox is off because of account 2.solution : make these settings save for each accounts seperatly.workaround : use a copy of the eve folder for each account you play.- background information.csm submission dating from 02 august 2009 :sound engine woesafter this csm submission, ccp baldur posted a dev blog :ccp baldur's devblog about sound"
"i support this!"
"yup!"
"second that.i'm gallente, how can i ... ;) i want my old blasterax to become as mean and nasty as it used to be!"
"proposal text:the csm shall publish a list of volunteers willing to translate both new proposals, proposals of the csm meeting agenda (if not yet translated) or the csm-ccp meeting agenda and the results (minutes) of the csm-ccp meeting.intention:while the eve community is truly international and the game is actively being localised, \"official\" communication between ccp and the player base through csm takes place in english. as knowledge of the english language is not equal throughout the players, many might keep their ideas as they don't feel able to express their thoughts appropriately.offering support in writing proposals would just increase \"incoming\" feed with the initiators left alone when it comes to official feedback (by csm and/or ccp). hence, translation of the relevant results (e.g. minutes) should be provided as well.since the eve community is truly international, it should be able to find a group of volunteers providing that kind of support by players.details:in order to attract more players, the following should be translated \"by default\" with the english versions retaining their status as official documents:csm meeting minutesproposals at evelopedia (i.e. the ones that made it to a csm meeting)other official documents, e.g. evelopedia pages, either by the csm or doccuments that deal with csm topics relevant to understand the purpose and the role of the csmnew proposals should be translated on request of proposer only. raw logs shall not be translated at all. this is in order to keep the workload of the volunteers within reasonabel limits.publication of the translated documents should be done by adding appropriate pages to evelopedia. in most wikis, this is being done by prefixing the original page name with the corresponding iso language or country code, followed by a colon (e.g. \"de:this_is_a_proposal\"). i think this could be feasible with evelopedia as well.however, this would probably require ccp (and even more isd/yarr due to the additional workload added) agreeing on adding new pages to evelopedia, so if this shouldn't happen, localised pages could be hosted \"elsewhere\" (private websites or other popular eve sites).the list of volunteers should be published at evelopedia nevertheless, as this is currently the first place anyone new to the csm idea is being forwarded to. translation requests should be done via evemail, so it should suffice to publish the character name and portrait to allow players to get in touch.whilst translation will be done by volunteers, it would be great if ccp could express their acknowledgment for the efforts somehow... this is going to be a huge load of work to be done, especially in the beginning.open issues:infrastructure and detailed implementation has to be discussed/determined, but this could be done once a decision has been made upon this proposal.comment:first of all, i'd like to apologise if this or a similar proposal had been made (and obviously rejected) already. i simply couldn't find anything similar.secondly, i'd volunteer for german - simply as this is my native tongue ;)"
"yes"
"supported"
"it's these insignificant things that in numbers make the difference between a good and a bad game. espeshially in something like ui every little thing matters."
"feels good man"
"second this."
"yes!"
"yup"
"something like this."
"not supported."
"yes i'll have prince of wales please. oh, and i wouldn't mind some of that apple crumble to go with it."
"i cann see a few occasions where the system could cause problems. however this the only actually workable proposals i seen, and as such i support it."
"do you understand how fleet bonuses work?you would still need exactly the same amount of skilled players for a fleet like this except one more person would be needed with a new skills. i.e. there will still be 2-5 people with fc5 skill if they are in this new heirachy or not. bonuses cannot be passed down the chain without a pilot in the sc / wc / fc below him relvant ly skilled. this arbitarry limit needs raising as the eve population raises."
"this be stupidity.blobs grow larger and your solution is to throw ever more resources at it? increasing the fleet sizes solves few of the real problems with large battles.what is needed is inter-fleet coordination tools. ability to share cynos, targets, warp-ins, fleet channels and more."
"players decides how they want to play, not you. if they want large fleets it is up to them. and then ccp need to solve the problem not to trow it away."
"you've obviously never been in major 0.0 fights. the last thing we need to do is encourage more blobbing in 0.0 and more tactic based fights. the op's suggestion caters right to this. if you get everyone in that fleet, you'll basically be able to move fleets very quickly and efficiently. in blob formits fine as-is."
"reducing lag goes through reducing fleet sizes in a natural way, or splitting them in different solarsystems with a mechanic that gives and advantage in doing so. this proposal goes weak against what is urged to fix lag in big engagements."
"please don't mix up different intentions. from what i understood, this propposal is in no way related to \"lag\". instead it just attempts to solve a rather organisational issue (or inconvenience) with fleets. nevertheless, i wouldn't be surprised to find this, if implemented, being able to reduce lag.just to add another interesting point to the discussion: today a colleague of mine (old 0.0 citizen and major ally member) objected and pointed out that already today fleets of 200+ would be pain to keep \"in line\" and having multiple smaller fleets instead would be more feasible. (however, the proposal doesn't force anyone to set up such kind of giant fleet)still supported, btw."
"you obviously haven't been in 0.0 in a capacity other than the wide-eyed noob sneaking in with a few others to try to rat. it most definitely is not fine as is. fleets larger than 256 are already being formed, using tools outside eve. the cap placed on fleets in game does nothing to prevent this. raising the cap will not change the size of fleets, it will only remove some of the artificial annoyances created by shortsighted coding."
"so in a year we are going to be having 10k v 10k battles and asking for fleet sizes to be increased to 20k?"
"no.even from a sci-fi point of view it doesnt make much sense to have a module located on your ship that increases the tracking of a missile that you already fired and is in space moving toward its target. target painters already have the role of aiding in the successful guidance of your missile from bay to target."
"no. absolutely crazy idea. not all turret races can cheat with \"tracking computer\"raven + 6xsiege ii + javelin + 3damagmods - 743dps at 45kmabaddon + 8xpulseii + scorch + 3damagmods + 2trackingcomp (optimal script) - 920dps at 58<U+043A><U+043C> + 16km falloffmaelstrom + 8x800mm ac ii + barrage + 3damagmods + 2trackingcomp (optimal script) - 700dps at 7.8<U+043A><U+043C> + 59km falloffhyperion + 8xneutronii + null + 3damagmods + 2trackingcomp (optimal script) - 852dps at 15km + 26km falloffmax dps:raven - 743dps at 45kmabaddon - 920dps at 58<U+043A><U+043C>maelstrom - 700dps at 7.8<U+043A><U+043C>hyperion - 852dps at 15kmdps at 45km:raven - 743dpsabaddon - 920dpsmaelstrom - 470dpshyperion - 230dpsit looks like at least large close missile weapon (torpedo) is not so bad without \"tracking enhancer and tracking computer for missiles\". i see only 2 things: lasers are overpowered, blasters suck (even with range upgrades it is extremely close weapon with medium damage)"
"if you want to compare ships maybe compare ships of the same tier. for amarr, gallente and minmatar you used tier 3 but used tier 2 for caldari.and i would like to see abaddons and hyperions with 3 dmg mods and still having a reasonable tank."
"frankly i always thought of the idea of capsuleers possessing crews absurd, a way of generating false pathos in the rp fiction on these forums, one that has obviously spread to the back story like a cancer. stuff like \"saying a silent prayer for the gallant crew as my ship erupts like blazing thermite\" or crap like that. absurd for several reasons:-capsuleers can get their ships insured. before anybody compares the situation to rl concept like life insurance or employee loss, notice that rl warships, which are what what we fly btw, are never offered insurance. why? because its kinda morally repugnant, in addition to impractical from the insurer's standpoint, to insure combatants that are meant to die. -any self-respecting minmatar or even some gallente should really object to any situation of wage-slavery desperate enough for trained crewmembers - whose lives are obviously cheap enough to not be offered additional insurance for next of kin - to put their lives on the line for mere private enterprise, which is what most capsuleer activities should be considered. -crew pay. maybe the spacefarer's union goes on strike after your third ship loss in as many hours?the whole concept of the capsule was to enable the kind of efficiency and response crew cannot offer. and if you want backstory, it was developed by the jovians, who arguably don't even have the numbers required to staff their fleets otherwise.buy hey, why not? i could see new weapons centered around maser technology or neutron bombs designed to kill your crew. plague ammo. maybe as soon as your ship gets in structure crew starts dying. . ."
"definetly supporting!"
"you sir! are a god damn genius!"
"yes. lag ensures that there is always a gap in activation -- this would ensure that isn't a problem.also, +1 for the guy who said we should also be able to insert an ammo change; i'll raise you the ability to activate your guns before they finish reloading (thereby causing them to fire as soon as they are reloaded, not before)."
"not supported.i neither see any usse nor advantage of it. you're flying ships not batched requests and your ships as well as its modules want to be operated. do so, please.accidentially deactivating a module is not that much of a problem since you can \"reactivate\" it without any loss right after its activation period ended (represented by the white circle vanishing with the module still blinking red). use this second or two to click on it again and it'll be insta-activated as if it never had been deactivated. at least, that's the way i do.sounds very much to me like an empire carebears request for auto-lock-and-shoot modules ;)"
"this. i hate this.insert fleet lag and instead of overheating your dread's guns, you are left with the guns that will not stop cycling red unless you warp off. unfortunately, you're in siege, so you have to wait up to 10 minutes before you can warp out to clear the guns so you can fire again."
"insert fleet lag and instead of overheating your dread's guns, you are left with the guns that will not stop cycling red unless you warp off. unfortunately, you're in siege, so you have to wait up to 10 minutes before you can warp out to clear the guns so you can fire again.if implementing this proposal would help with this kind of issue, i'd go for it. but as i doubt it, i don't. instead i take this a being a missing information at the client, caused by the database (or the node or whatever actually does this job) not being able to send it due to its massive utilisation. if this should in fact be the case, all you'd get from it would be the ability to compose your own disco lights - still boring, just two colors ;)"
"if implementing this proposal would help with this kind of issue, i'd go for it. but as i doubt it, i don't. instead i take this a being a missing information at the client, caused by the database (or the node or whatever actually does this job) not being able to send it due to its massive utilisation. if this should in fact be the case, all you'd get from it would be the ability to compose your own disco lights - still boring, just two colors ;)i think it might help/fix the red cycling actually. we already know that leaving the gun on will only cause it to fire once, then cycle green - which is why you have to wait a cycle, deactivate it, then activate it again currently. i am under the impression that when you deactivate the gun during the first cycle, your client thinks it is deactivated, but the server ignores the command, leaving the two desynced. being able to turn it back to \"active\" on the client would sync them back up again (because you are locked from sending an activate/deactive command from your client once it thinks it is deactivated).this is only based on my understanding of the problem, ccp has yet to explain why this happens (or fix it for that matter - the two usually go hand-in-hand)."
"supported for sure.speaking of making the module interface better, please note that the overheating stuff is an awful mess and could use some of the same good sense that this proposal has.edit: forgot my thumb."
"yes, this is \"another\" one of those threads. i haven't really flown a hulk in a while...but having actually developed tank fits and such, i'll just say: wtf is with its fitting ability? it's a t2 barge designed for \"deep space\", but it's impossible to fit a tank for 0.0 rats without a deadspace booster.my proposal:+1 mid slot for increased tanking ability (hardeners, etc).cpu: 300 -> 500 for fitting additional tanking modules.powergrid: 35 -> 250 so it can fit lses and medium shield boosters.capacitor: 625 -> 1000 to increase available cap to run the booster.of course, these are very rough numbers and could use some discussion, but basically, the hulk and other exhumers need to be looked at if they are to be used more readily in 0.0. i don't know about you, but i wouldn't want to buy a 150mil brick with the tank of a cruiser unless you spend more isk on deadspace equipment, which makes you a flying pinata anyway!"
"drop 1 mlu and fit a dcu.voila your hulk is much harder to gank."
"i must be very tired or something, because i can't find the spot where op writes about ganking. i did however read a comment about tanking the deepspace rats that tend to show up in the deepspace belts that it's intended to mine in.so, yeah..."
"if i can reasonably tank rats in 0.0... then there's something wrong with you guys.course you sacrifice mining ability for the tank... but i don't think this is a smart move.sorry not supporting."
"if you carry more than a bil in a ship that costs 100k and don't bother tanking it, then you deserve to lose it.ships can survive the jita gank. i've seen a badger ii survive two tempests volleying it.you just have to tank it out well enough - transport ships are a good start.whining on the forums to give you a super resist mod is a bad start."
"for those who like to risk the isk there is gambling which is done through threads on the forums. why not have gambling in a station that a player could set up themselves add a possible fee if they want, then choose the game. some games could include craps(i partake in it daily), heads or tails, rock paper scissors, poker, blackjack, and probably many more."
"i support"
"i think this would be a great idea as well. would keep the players safe from scams and help people make a quick buck. sort of like an in game casino."
"i think this will be one of the features implented with the \"walking in station patch\".which will come, \"eventually<U+FFFD>\"and the whole concept of gambling is, that it should be player driven :/nevertheless, it could be a nice option, although i don't think it should take priority."
"if it comes up once a week, i would say its popular demand. ps, some of us prefer not to play on the test server"
"super duper idea!"
"i will support my own idea ... duh!"
"-1 no"
"i think it would be cool if your could use the arena to do tournaments. maybe pay a fee and have ads placed on the billboards around the region. ad time could be auctioned away to highest bidder. would certainly make it more fun to watch those."
"it could be a intresting way to deal with suiside ganking and hulkageddoni have nothing aganst someone who wants to play cops and robbers or rescue someone from pc ratsmy idea is symilar to what marcus henik said but make concord like a faction milita that only single pilots not corporations can joinconcord members would also be able to attack outlaws but not clame bountys, fly concord ships but only keep them as long as they are in concordether that or creat a way for concord pcs to arrest/detain someone"
"it sounds like the op wants to fly a concord ship more than anything else. that said, i think it has been suggested that low sec should get a new treatment before. i think the op's suggestion works well with the the corruption/vegas idea. which is to say \"give lowsec a purpose\" beyond being between high sec and 0.0."
"supported... this is getting redonkulous ccp"
"supported in principle but is there anything worthwhile in a gsc? spending 5 min hacking for 5000m3 of veld does not sound that great"
"not supported, i smell 10 battleships remote repairing a tanked cov ops who is hacking the can."
"the feeling of distance will not be a stake by shortning travel time.you will never want to travel from one end of eve to the other, but by reducing travel time those in 0.0 will spend more time actually figting and those nice people who move stuff around our mutual benefit will move even more stuff and further.personally im a litte bored with following the fc around looking for someone with the balls to fight. it takes too friking long"
"if anything they should do the pure opposite. the eve universe is by far to small since warp to zero was introduced."
"not supported.i don't see a point there. fly a smaller ship instead."
"wow, u might wanna try getting outside your home system! eve is huge."
"if you're having trouble finding people to fight, this really isn't because \"it takes too long to warp between gates\". i suggest identifying the root cause of not haivng anyone in your neck of nullsec to shoot at."
"stop flying battleships on your hunting parties and you might find things go smoother and faster."
"but de'veldrin, he cant win without his blob! everyone needs bigger and bigger blobs! more blobs! more blobs!"
"[off topic]easier: link your item, watch what you were searching for, ctrl+a (select all) what you've written, del (delete selection), enter (send \"nothing\" to chat).sounds more complicated, time consuming and long-winded as it actually is. basically, sending an empty chat box does send nothing, not even a blank line, but it clears all former content, this time that pesky invisible link."
"i agree with you."
"supported"
"new skill in eve name : forum warrior each lvl lowers the time needed between posting by 1 min :)oh supportedlike your post? looks like this 5min delay doesnt keep the forum clean"
"my personal fav is that i post in caod with my forum alt, which is rejected due to not being in a corp, then i change to my real char and cannot post because i've already posted.gg ccp."
"yeah it also takes four moons of capacitor to fire one volley.make rail guns take massive cap and sure thing bro, enjoy capping out.all you whiners are biased and don't take everything into consideration."
"[quote]yeah it also takes four moons of capacitor to fire one volley.make rail guns take massive cap and sure thing bro, enjoy capping out.all you whiners are biased and don't take everything into consideration.haven't ever used rails on a rokh before have you. it actually has as bad if not worse cap issues then the apoc. yeah caldari railboats know all they need to know about capping out, cap issues aren't a unique feature to amaar, perhaps more severe in some instances but certainly not all and in the realm of sniper boats it's not a particularly strong argument."
"obviously you haven't flown a rokh in a fleet fight. fact is that it is the bs that caps out first of all the others. i'd guess you usually fly a tachyon apoc, so you are obviously comparing apples with oranges. once again, if you are going to benchmark the ships, you have to use megabeams, 425mm and 1400mm turrets. doing otherwise is plain ignorance and inability to learn.that means if you want your opinion to have any value you'll post the amarr bs fitting you consider consumes too much cap so we can tear it apart at leisure and have a good laugh. by the way, if you have issues with capacitor, try training energy management. i think it helps.remember, you have to give us numbers, not empty words. that means the capacitor duration and the specific fitting that you are talking about instead of the continued inanities and obvious attempt to troll, so far."
"t2 425 rail activation 30, duration 9.563: 3.15 cap/s per gunmegabeam activation 65, duration 9: 7.2 cap/s per gun, 3.6 with amarr bs 5tachyon activation 95, duration 12.5: 7.6 cap/s per gun, 3.8 with amarr bs 5apoc cap 7500, recharge 1155s, peak 16.2 cap/srokh cap 6000, recharge 1250s, peak 12 cap/s so t2 rail on rokh takes 26% peak recharge, on apoc with amarr bs 5 megabeam is 22%, tach is 23.5%so as you see using lasers on apoc takes less cap then rails on rokh"
"i'd propose a rof increase over a damage increase.this has drawbacks (cap and ammo usage increase) but will bolster the dps.how about doing something like what the projectiles got but not on quite as large a scale.reduce base damage but increase rof appropiatly to increase overall dps but lower alpha strike. then the weapon has its flavour too. (extreme range, high rof, good dps, low alpha, poor tracking)i'm also against all weapons performing similarly at the same range (180-190km). rails are supposed (from what i can tell) out range everything else."
"i would be content with an rof increase instead of an outright damage one so long as some of the cap issues related to rails are also delt with, namely that for the boats they're put on they use an unseemly amount of it, especially given they already eat through ammo at a heavy rate. also rof increases would likly need something to be done about reload times and/or clip sizes to keep reloading from hurting dps too extensively. i'm also in agreement in wanting to avoid having all weapons become uniform and i think the proposed increases in damage would keep intact the damage peaks around 230/212/188 for laser weapons over rail weapons. however insuring that rails are actually competitive will mean shrinking the range where lasers are best simply due to a lack of space to inhabit otherwise.ideally i think i would have pegged rails as preforming more like tachyons do in having high damage but rediculous pg and cap requirements while lasers focused more on flexibility in range instead of pure damage, leveraging their ease of switching crystals and their common theme of working in middling ranges to engage at a wide variaty of ranges without hesitation. of course this would have required either some leveling of t2 ammo with t1 ammo or an entire set of t2 ammo to play with to allow switching from aurora to radio to provide an increase in damage. however given the current state of the game it seems lasers have occupied the high dps role in ranged combat and rails will have to be positioned more towards dps at even higher ranges."
"not supported.consider the following 4 (fairly standard) lr hac fits.290 dps, 719 volley, 0.01222 tracking, 21.3k ehp, 105 km optimal232 dps, 1912 volley, 0.01121 tracking, 18.6k ehp, 105 km optimal235 dps, 824 volley, 0.00898 tracking, 19.4k ehp, 91 km optimal216 dps, 824 volley, 0.02875 tracking, 23.8k ehp, 105 km optimal------------------------------------------------------------------------------so, the deimos is subpar; unsurprising as it is a blaster boat.the zealot has a significant damage advantage.the muninn has a big alpha advantage.the eagle has between 2x and 3x the tracking of the rest.i would maybe support a 10% damage to railgun damage, but caldari ships definitely do not need a grid bonus."
"nice try lee dalton,but your fits are lies themselves.first zealod doesnt need anciliary router and then you can add 2 rigs ,just change the stupid type-d attenuation signal augmentation to a reactor control. +changing the anci rig to a locus rig and change ammo to imp microwave. and you will get 89km opt 250dps no ammo change and a tracking 0.0489.muninn same 1 te --> 1 dc and add a locus rig optimal will be the same+ 23k ehp,+ it has drones.both of them far out perform the eagle, deimos.so 15% dmg boost for rails , and 15% pg for eagle is the minimum."
"wait zelot has everything better than deimos , only alpha slightly lower and you think its ok ?"
"it is fine because he uses zealot not deimos :)"
"actually, i fly a muninn. ;)ignore the zealot - look at the other 3. the deimos does more dps than the muninn. the eagle does over 90% of the damage of the muninn, with over 2.5x the tracking.the problem here is not rails.the problems are:1) the deimos is not a sniper.2) the zealot is very, very good."
"why should i ignor the zealot?nodeimos does more dps? deimos: 235 dps, 824 volley, 0.00898 tracking, 19.4k ehp, 91 km optimalmuninn:232 dps, 1912 volley, 0.01121 tracking, 18.6k ehp, 105 km optimal wait more tracking 2.5x alpha better optimal ,no cap use , and choosable dmg type at close range , also smaller and faster for only 1% less dmg, and you think this is balanced?????you can come with deimos is not a sniper it doesnt legitimate this huge difference ,oh but then we could compare deimos vs vagabond that would bring deimos out as victor ,right? no deimos is even suckier with blasters fittedeagle:216 dps, 824 volley, 0.02875 tracking, 23.8k ehp, 105 km optimal , much slover and huge sinature,less dps, cap use, yeah better tracking ,but what is that good for? it still cant hit frigs well and against bigger targets muninns tracking is enough, if muninn wants to hit frigs it can change to faction ammo and get much better tracking than the eagle 0.0434 tracking + it can use its drones if target frig comes too close, and you think this is balanced??rail+blaster ships need huge improvement currently they are weak compared to amarr/minmatar."
"your post quality is getting worse and worse.just because a ship isn't the best ship in its class does not mean it's useless."
"then clearly you'd be in support of a nerf to amaar then right?"
"the zealot has no dronebay, no utility slots, and cap problems.it's a tradeoff, each ship is best *in a certain role*. for example, the amazing tracking of the eagle, with lead at 100 km, kills frigates in a way that the zealot and muninn can't,the only *bad* ship in the comparison imo is the deimos, and that's because it's a ****ing blaster ship. rails are fine, the eagle is fine. gallente just lack a lr turret based hac."
"more lies? no drone bay eagle has it neighter, cap problems where? it can be made cap stable easily only needs 1 rig sloti have already showed you that the muninn is much better at anti frigate job, so is the zealot ,just change the ammo to blood microwave and you will have better dps slightly less optimal and much better tracking than the eagle , also 1 sec ammo change allows you to choose your ammo according to your enemy type/distance.eagle is not fine,nor railguns."
"so... caldari rail ships don't need a grid boost, but they do need multiple fitting mods when all their counterparts from other races need only one?"
"i've changed my mind. let's make everything identical. no more variation in eve, no more differences between races. each race should each get identical ships with different skins, that's a great idea."
"i have not looked at any numbersbut i have from time to time shot at stuff with an eagle and shot at stuff with my deimosand shot at stuff with a sniping rohk.the result always seems to be the same , some slight scratch to the enemies paintwork.i give up on rails mostly and just use arties and arty bonused ships if i wanna snipe.so supporting this , me thing rails need some luv."
"this is why you are a troll.you lie about what you have said when you are proven wrong."
"i'll deconstruct your points from the top, starting with point a, since it is relevant to what you are discussing right now. i won't bother quoting that big block of text since it will further clutter this post.you didn't concede that you lost a point on the previous page. here's the relevant parts of the conversation:do you concede that you have made a bait-and-switch fallacy during the course of that conversation? here's the outline of what you did:- you said the bonus on the brutix is fully useful and not ignored because there exist brutix fits that have armor repairers on them. - when faced with the response that cmbs are able to fully use their bonuses as well, by loading pure kinetic missiles, you rebut by saying it will not be the most optimal way to fit them.- however, you failed to account for that, of the active armor brutix fits, none of them are popular, and no one would call any of them the \"optimal\" way of fitting a brutix.therefore, a bait and switch fallacy is committed. here's an outline of it:you first implied that the criterion of a \"fully usable\" bonus is as follows: - if there exist a fit for a ship that can utilize the bonus to its fullest potential, then the bonus is \"fully usable.\"however, you later changed it to: - if the optimum fit for a ship utilizes the bonus to its fullest potential, then the bonus is \"fully usable.\"bait... and switch."
"a brutix has a bonus for active armor reps.a brutix is a ship designed to fit armor tanks ( active or passive )a brutix can be fitted with an armor repper.if fitted with an armor repper the brutix will get 100% of its bonus 100% of the time while in combat and using its combat tactics.a cmb has a bonus for kinetic missiles.a cmb is a ship designed to fit missile launchers.if fitted with missile launchers the cmb will not have 100% use of its bonus 100% of the time if it uses its combat tactics.in fact there is no fit available for cmb's that enable concurrent use combat tactics and bonus at the same time.lumy had incorrectly assumed that firing only kinetic missiles was the optimal way of flying a cmb i.e. there combat tactics.i hope that clears up the difference for you."
"yes, it does. it seems that you are committing the special pleading fallacy instead. you have created the criterion out of whole cloth, namely \"if a ship has a fit that will get 100% of its bonus 100% of the time, then the bonuses are not useless.\"and then created a loophole that only allows the point that you are arguing to escape the criterion: \"missiles are not included in fits, because they are not modules. thus, missiles themselves cannot be governed by the previously defined criterion for useful bonuses.\"special pleading.---in fact, the general consensus is that the armor repairer bonus on brutixes are less useful than the kinetic bonus on cmbs. also, i would wager, and i'm sure you'll agree, proportionally to their own class, there are more drakes that use kinetic missiles than there are brutixes that fit armor repairers."
"the brutix bonus is useful for solo/small gang work.active tanked ships are faster than plated resisted setup and this is important for a blaster boat which must be able to close range and maintain optimal.so an active tank bonus is very useful for small gang work esp.the brutix bonus is not useful for fleet work where plated resisted setups are best.i am not aware of any general consensus on the brutixs bonus and consequently do not no what that consensus is if indeed it does exist.i agree with you that there are far more drake firing kin than there are brutixes wearing armor reps.this i base on the fact that there are 10 times at least as many drakes in game as brutixes.are there proportionally more drakes firing kin than brutixes wearing reps , i have to say i dont know.lets assume you are right.why do you think there are so many caldari pilots in game firing sub optimal ammo?\"the kinetic bonus is misleading to newer players and even to some older ones\" i had been debating whether to add that to the op or noti think i am going to add that to my op at some point.yes i still remember the day that my 5 years old corpy came over ts and said.flying a nighthawk.corpie - i have this iskur scrammed in belt 3 but i cant break his tank.me - your firing scourge at it arnt you ?corpie - yeah of course , i get a bonus to it.me - try some havocs on it.corpie - i dont carry them.me - hold on i'll come and save your sorry ass.^^ true story believe it or not ^^"
"i take that you didn't address the first part of my post because you don't want to admit that you in fact committed special pleading. this is what i am talking about. you don't concede points explicitly."
"the sentence you quoted merely implies existence of such fits. it doesn't say anyhing about their effectiveness, or if it's optimal fit.implication \"it exists => they have to (or should) use only it\" is your construct.please stop failing at english.fun fact (little bit off topic): there is only one ship (i'm aware of) that can never use its bonuses to 100%. typhoon, 5 bonused launchers, 5 bonused turrets. wtb typhoon with 10 high slots."
"haha. not off topic at all. given dav's specious lol-logic that \"ships that cannot use their bonuses to the full must be boosted regardless of game balance\", his solution would be to \"boost\" the typhoon by removing a launcher slot and a turret, so it could fit 4/4 again and receive its full bonuses.people might object to this nerf, but dav would tell them that this was nothing to do with game balance and that they should troll elsewhere."
"this is a forum - a place of debate.this is not a court room and i am not on trial here.you dont get to be council for the prosecution and judge at the same time. ( you dont get to decide when a point is won ). we are not here scoring points anyways. we are here debating.if you are not debating the op then you are flaming/trolling.the first point in your post was largelly personal attack on my debating style , allthough it did contain references to the topic under discussion.speak plainly about the op and leave personal attacks out and i will respond to your posts.now back on topic , we were talking about the brutixes bonuses were we not.as you have posted and not replied to my brutix answers ( i was waiting to see what you had to say on that ) i will continue and bring the debate back round to the kin issue of the op )brutix fit.[lows]2 x mar.players choice of resist mods and mag stabs / te's[mids]scramwebinjectormwd[highs]( cloak for solo low sec roaming only )best blasters that can be fitted with remainining grid/cpu[rigs]choice of ( as required for fit )resist rigshybrid rigsgrid rigsthis is a brutix fit for solo/small gang/pirate gate camp work.combat tactics required.load am - close to short range on enemy , apply scram and web , blast them to bits.ororbit at optimal of ammo ( any choice acceptable ) , applying scram and web , blast them to bits a bit slower.use scout or ( mwd/cloak ) when necessary to avoid blobs.now to the bonus.in all engagements the brutix will enjoy full use of its armor rep bonus.the brutixes bonus is 100% compatible with its combat tactics 100% of the time when fitted as above.now. jt your turnplease show me the caracal fit that can use its kin bonus 100% of the time when usings its combat tactics.caracals combat tactics include using optimal ammo for the target."
"showing that your argument is fallacious is not ad hominem. get your facts straight. i'm demonstrating what your entire point is based on a logical fallacy, and thus, is flawed.and yes, a debate involves making points and making others concede your points. or it will never end. the fact that this thread has lasted 18 pages should be a clear indication of that."
"ok, here goes the tactic:fit mwd, fit nano, fit cloak.use scout or ( mwd/cloak ) when necessary to avoid anything other than t1 armor tankers and t2 minmatar ships.is this answer good enough for you?"
"this is your 5th post in a row that does not debate the op.is it fair to assume that you are unable to come up with the required cara fit and therefore by default have lost stil's argument about brutix's bonuses being lost in combat the same way that cmb bonuses are lost in combat.are you able to concede lost points to borrow your own terminology ?"
"wow.wow.just, wow.you have no grasp of logic. your viewpoint is fractally wrong. no wonder everyone else have stopped responding to your posts."
"loli think what james is trying to say is that you have made a logical fallacy while constructing the premises of your argument. instead of addressing his objections, you simply pointed at the conclusion and said \"lol, you can't disprove this!\" well, no ****, dav. if you assume all the premises to be correct, you can't disprove the conclusion. but the point is, the premises are fallacious, and thus, the argument is not sound. you are failing to grasp this concept. dav, it seems like you are suffering from the dunning-kruger effect."
"ok fine thats your 6th post in a row that does not debate the op.i take it you have conceded defeat on the brutix bonus objection to the op ?please stop trolling this thread with personal insults."
"lol, you area really oblivious, aren't you?im p sure that everybody who has a shred of knowledge on how to construct a good argument is laughing at you right now."
"you're doing it wrong. you cannot argue someone using logic who defies logic. the best way is to use their \"argument\" and turn it against them. and enjoy the show.just copy&paste the tactic/fit from my post. because dav decided to ignore it for some reason. response should be amusing. i wonder if he finds any other loophole.@dav: pointing someones errors or logical fallacies in their argument (does not matter if in the op, or in subsequent ones) is not personal attack. accusing them of being troll, is!"
"my parents **** on my face last night so couldn't respond to your reply dav...and now that argument is basically irrelevant after reading recent posts.this is exactly what i've been trying to put into words this whole time. he's using facts that he says are true to base his argument off of, but in reality these facts are wrong. so the argument is wrong. this is wry i don't even know where to start, because the problem in your arguing is at the very beginning of your argument. so i don't what to debate against your argument which isn't even factually correct...there's no point."
"if jt does not want to continue the debate , i'll pick this up with you tomorrow.debating with multiple people at a time tends to lead to the situation of discussions cascading out in multiple direction at a time ending up in slanging matches, which makes the thread very hard to follow in my humble opinion."
"there is really no point in continuing when your opponent thinks logical fallacies are \"debating styles\" and thus should not be criticized. just in case you call me out on it, here's the relevant quote.this is what you said when i demonstrated that your argument is fallacious:"
"support on some, faction ship would be interesting to, but probably wont happen. maybe make newer ships that are bound to lowsec?"
"i will trawl through here and put any good/popular ideas on the main thread at some point, get it all together..."
"good ideas.i particularly like the idea of a black market. and lowsec borders between the warring factions, makes complete sense, though would have to be plenty of possible ways through so that permacamps are rare.how about 'overcharged' versions of modules that are illegal in hisec? i htink there need to be some things that hisec people really cant have, to compensate for the relative safety they live in.and i live in hisec! i just think there needs to be some lowsec boosting, so fully suppported."
"some good and bad ideas all around. i like this discussion, lowsec has needed an overhaul for a long time now. zero-zero has received its massive boost, i think it's time lowsec gets the same. a few things here:first of all, in order to understand the problem with lowsec, you need to give a reason for people to come to lowsec who wouldn't normally. everyone is happy just running l4s all day because there's no risk at all. how about making all l4 agents with positive quality ratings (1 to 20) available only in lowsec? on top of that, no more low-grade item drops from killed npc ships during missions. the current mineral market is terrible, because you can just reprocess a bunch of junk from mission pick-ups and sell the minerals.when you eliminate item drops, the price of minerals goes up. this means more incentive to mine the lowsec and nullsec ores, because it will mean more isk/hour for those miners...if they're careful.increase the value of scanned plexes in lowsec, make some systems hold more valuable ore, that sort of thing.ccp has talked for a while about being able to mine planetary rings and comets/asteroids that zip around in space. perhaps these can only be mined in lowsec (you could say hi sec rings have already been stripped of their resources), and thus it would give people an incentive to mine.speaking of mining...at risk of sounding like a carebear...we need a new class of mining ships. something that has a good, solid tank. maybe the tank of a battleship.think about it: you buy a hulk for 150mil after fitting and rigs, yet most people will never take it out of hisec. why? because it can be popped by a t1 cruiser, or a t2 frig. i realize mining ships aren't meant to pvp, but for the love of all things decent, why are they so easy to kill? these are supposed to be big, heavy, tough ships. they work around asteroid fields, you'd think they would be built to take a little punishment.i propose a new class of mining ship, which brings in less ore than a hulk, but has a much stronger tank. that way, it wouldn't be so scary to the miners to venture into lowsec to get more valuable ore. pirate markets. a black market. like has been said before, make the buying and selling of things like boosters, certain implants, npc goods, pirate faction ships, etc. only available in lowsec. more criminal factions, not just guristas, blood raiders, etc. i'm talking about the lowsec version of hisec corps. maybe they're associated with certain \"normal\" pirate groups, and thus they determine your rewards, but you wouldn't have to worry about killing, say, a guristas rat and being denied a mission by a corp that is associated with them. or at least be able to buy your way to mission status with them. after all, everyone wants more money, an a corp made of dirty pirates is no different. i like the idea of buying your way around things. perhaps you can find a crooked member of concord who will negate your 15 minute gcc...for a price. so if you paid them, say, 60 million isk, you could negate your gcc 3 times. gate guns would still fire on you if you engage someone within their range, but once you warp away, they act like your gcc is up.or maybe you can buy your way into a hisec system (a 0.5 or 0.6), without police harassing you. it could last a few days, or a week, or a month, depending on how much you pay. i think it would give people who want to try piracy a boost, especially those who don't have hauler alts. this way they could still make trips to the closest hisec system without fear of being attacked. smuggling, smuggling, smuggling. who doesn't want to be a dashing smuggler, ala han solo? make ships that have concealed cargo holds, so you could run illegal goods around without attracting the attention of authorities.i love being a pirate, it's the most fun i've had in eve...we just need some piratey lovin'. yarr"
"i love the sound of all this, yeah som good some bad ideas here, but overall yeah, lowsec needs this to be done.hmm... hidden cargo holds... maybe just small holds that cant be scanned, make a low slot that can only go on t2 transport ships that is a hidden hold? maybe just a few hundred m3 so cant be abused? just used to carry smaller illegal items, like drugs and illegal implants?that also allows for hisec missions that require a trip to lowsec to pick up something illegal without the authorities getting you... and also for personal smuggling of course..."
"sounds like a nice idea allround.low sec needs some love .... and war . supported.buffering high sec with low sec is not a really good idea i think.maybe a single point of high sec to high sec between races would be a sollution. then it's either be suicide ganked or taking the risk going trough low sec.checkpoint charly i would love to have some sort of overlord like sov system in low sec. sort of the ghetto's of eve . this system would make a lot of the battling between low sec occupants that is going on relevant. an upgrade system like the current sov system could be used to make low sec income a bit better risk vs reward.having a way to make decent isk with professions in low sec would be nice. being -10 does limit the options quite a bit as to regarding smuggling to high sec.creating a market for illigal and pirate faction stuff limited to low sec sounds nice but i have no idea what the impact will be. given the fact that everything can still be contracted i am not sure the market would be used that much.buying your gcc (partialy) off would be nice. depending on the offence the bribe could be lower or higher. for example shooting a bantam with your mega should incurr a higher bribe than shooting a mega with your mega.having pirate faction agents in low sec would be very nice. a full yes for this. i definately would take the risk involved with missioning in low sec to get access to slave implants for instance."
"nice ideas, me likes.opening up lowsec to actualy make it worth going to can only be a good thing in my book."
"bump. have you hugged a drone today?"
"interesting.i'd prefer the proposal to specifically state something like the following (just my suggestion though).add a function to reconnect to drones as long as:1) player was disconnected or warped out2) player didn't abandon them.3) player attempts to reconnect to drones within (say) 10 mins (to stop people with larger drone bays leaving sets in strategic positions round gates etc).the only issue then would be getting back to the drones within the 10 mins if you happen to have warped out (different to dc) of room 5 of a mission - but in that case the rats probably got them anyway..."
"i like the suggestions. i think one way to implement #3 would be to give disconnected drones a countdown in the realm of the suggested 10 minutes; sort of like a signal decay. after that, they become \"abandoned\" and reconnection is disabled. i also think it's fair to make the countdown activate regardless of disconnect or player-initiated warp--just to simplify it and account for the potential abuse as you suggested.i'll update the proposal shortly to reflect this."
"i agree the timer should start from you warping out or disconnecting.what i meant by dc being different from warping out is that (iirc and it has been a while) if you dc in a mission you warp back to the same deadspace pocket but if you warp out from say x extravaganza you would have to warp back to the first gate and then through all the pockets in between within the 10 min timer.but in those cases i've not had any drones left to come back to so ymmv.i'll keep an eye on this thread or ping me in game once it is updated. *edit* i see it has been updated already"
"issues that have been fixed since first posting this proposal :- long range turret and launcher sound effects stop working after a few minutes when zoomed in too close on your ship because various close range modules with looping sound effects ( like hardners and resistance amplifiers ) are overwriting these sound effects.- there are desync issues where turret and launcher graphical effects are not in line with the sound effects and alot of the sound effects get skipped.- often, most of the weapon sound effects go silent after a while.- when mission specific music is playing, all module sound effects disapear but targetting and other sound effects keep working.- when using close range turrets and no hardners or other modules with looping sound effects, the sound effects work somewhat better, with around 80% of the sound effects coming thru. but with alot of incomming enemy fire this can drop to around 50%.- incomming fire is not always audible.- jukebox stops playing randomly, after which one has to restart it."
"support for fixing the sound issues. some of us actually do have the sound turned on when we play.ps. what the f<U+FFFD>u<U+FFFD>c<U+FFFD>k? who makes a new interface for something (the jukebox) that broken but doesn't fix it. why don't repaint my car that doesn't run?"
"i like playing with sound on, but never when i'm in combat. the sounds don't necessarily work in the first place, and not only does having sound turned on lags the game, it makes the game more likely to crash too (it's a matter of \"how soon\" rather than \"will it\")."
"supported as it's pretty annoying.i like the sounds (jukebox off) and it feels pretty random how they come and go :("
"do you think they will actually listen to us on this? does ccp hate gallente ;) ?"
"as close range battleship pilot, i'm much more tempted to use amarr bs + pulse laser than gallente + blasters. one exception being the dominix, since it has powerful drones that offset the blaster disadvantage.as far as pure damage output goes, blaster vs pulse advantage is too small to be seriously considered. the most influencing factor in weapon choice becomes optimal range - where 10-15km is the best range to have for close range battleship, both in terms of average battle distance and tracking considerations. the niche for blaster advantage is too small. ccp like to balance stuff by making everything the same, but it's rather boring. what's the point of having wide variety of choices if all the choices are essentially the same. but then, it's just a matter of principle."
"yeah, gallente need some fixing across the board. while i understand that some of the recommendations in the gallente mkii thread may be overpowered the themes and ideas behind the improvements seem sound enough to be considered as a basis for an overhaul to gallente ships which are outside of a few drone boats are all in need of some work, largely connected to the issues with blasters and rails."
"gallente don't suck, your guns suck. it's okay, as a caldari dude i feel for you, as we use the same crappy guns..hybrids make the angels weep with sadness."
"problem is that as a backup mechanic caldari have missiles - and while they have a few issue (rockets!) they fill nicely where hybrid guns have their issues.gallente as backup mechanic have drones and drones have been nerfed to oblivion for really good reasons; they should be nerfed even more imho (mostly in pve... just bring on sleeper ai and goodbye afk dronemissioners) - so they arent a fallback mechanic as good as missiles.hybrid love is needed, but wont be enought to bring gallente on par with other races, would just fix caldari problems..."
"i'd rather that they started off with making the csm meetings more visible, and less a complete pita to navigate :/"
"couldn't have said it better myself"
"i think it's a good idea to translate the meeting minutes, csm interest is really low and anything that can get people more involved is welcome in my book."
"supported"
"yeahwho cares that they are invisible to anyone who does not speak english as there native language, right?"
"any suggestions?we know the forum isn't the greatest way to raise and comment on proposals and that it is pretty much a pita to search but that isn't news to us and we want it changed as much as other players.but any specific issues and potential solutions are welcome."
"to start with: move the whole csm documentation into the game, accessible through the ingame ui. this means the ccp graphical designers are responsable for it's layout and workings. they're professionals, and i'd expect a good result from that."
"your point is noted.in fact we've discussed this off the record within the csm and i hope something will be added to cosmos/new eden to be used via the igb (i prefer this option to using the eve ui for many many reasons). we have some time set during the iceland summit to discuss csm issues and this will likely come up then.we now return you to the discussion on localisation"
"thank you, and sorry for going off topic, on localization: are the meeting minutes enough or should the election process also be translated?"
"no worries, it is a related issue because if localisation is added it will need a new ui to be able to link it all together as to what should be translated, that is down to what the players would like. you could for example translate the wiki proposals and the minutes, but it could become a fair bit of work. also if we still use the wiki there is a chance the translation will get out of date when the proposal is amended; which leads back to needing a better ui/portal for csm.so in essence (assuming an updated portal) you could haveraw logs (english only)minutes (english + localisations)\"tl:dr\"* voting results (english + localisations)proposals discussed during the meeting (english + localisations)as long as people are aware the localisations are volunteer supplied and that the english versions are the \"official\" releases i don't have a problem with the idea. in fact i welcome the chance to reach more of the playerbase.there is also the possibility for people to raise proposals in other languages and have them translated to english for the csm to vote on.it all hinges on people putting in the time though *i assume people know \"tl:dr\" is \"too long: didn't read\" but i add the footnote just in case"
"translating the campaign process for all candidates would be a logistical nightmare though, it'd make the campaign integrated into the ui a bare minimum requirement really. (not that i oppose that idea, i promoted it when i campaigned for this csm)"
"this shouldn't be that much of an issue,of course, this would have to be pointed out appropriately.as with the ui integration, i'm a slightly afraid of unwillingly creating a deadlock situation where both ideas wait for each others implementation. i'd like to avoid this in favour of giving localisation a chance at all. who knows, maybe it won't yield the results desired (more attention of the playerbase, etc.)?(and yes, i support my own idea ;))"
"i don't think the translation idea requires the ui, to be semi functional, just not anywhere near as easy to implement without ui support. but they do need to be brought to the csm as seperate issues, though i doubt they wouldn't be.i don't think you'd have to worry about the translation idea waiting around for the ui idea. besides, the translation mostly doesn't even require the csm to support it, as independant translaters can translate the meeting minutes whenever they want to. but the csm backing the idea would be better ofcourse."
"i'm all for quality of life features, individually they appear insignificant but the annoyances do add up over time.as you say there isn't really much to discuss here so if there are other related chat issues that could be added that would be better. if not i can submit this as is."
"i've got a chat-related issue that might be added, but i'm unsure if it's technically feasable: i'd like non-alphabet writing to be converted to alphabetic for those who choose that option. in other words, in japanese for instance, for those who tick the option, kanji would be converted to romanji (latin alphabet). same would go for russian, etc. is this possible?"
"not supported.don't fly what you can't afford to lose.it isn't that hard to figure out rule #1 of eve.if you can't afford to replace those implants, don't use them, if you can't afford to replace your clone x times over don't go back into the fight."
"hydra will provail but go bankrupt if clone costs aren't lowered.:)"
"this quote, taken from a friend of mine a few minutes prior, is indicative of why rules on language need to be looked at.tl;dwriterules are abuseable: player a kills player b; player b is in a famous eve 'low' and swears at player a; player a petitions player b; player b receives warning from a gm, or a ban if warned several times before.do i even need to say how ****ed up this is? why do we need this rule in a game rated t (teenagers swear more often than any other age group!)? doesn't this conflict with eve's main selling point; being a \"cold, harsh universe\"?discuss, support. we need to stop this, using ccp as your own private army to make someone else miserable is lame as ****."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.-post."
"really easy to not get banned for swearing. if you don't swear in chat (or threaten bodily damage - as has been another famous way to get banned), you don't get banned. simple."
"a great proposal for making the transfer of hacked characters easier. op wouldn't happen to be an rmt affiliate?"
"after re-doing the 2nd draft, this is no longer applicable.also, still not associated with rmt transfers."
"supported.personally, i'd like to play in an eve without jumpclones, jump freighters, and jump bridges. i'd like to play in an eve where 0.0 entities could disable gates, build new ones, stabilize wormholes, and otherwise change the essential terrain in their space.but i doubt that ccp has that vision: the velocity of conflict and markets makes accessible fights and logistics a desirable thing, and now would be a good time for a skill to reduce jumpclone lag--perhaps by an hour per level, so you could jump back at the beginning of a play session the next day, rather than the end.i would add, however, a concurrent isk-charge for clone jumping, of some amount related to the clone grade quality, and perhaps related to how much prior to 24h you are jumping.--krum"
"or perhaps distance?"
"surprised at so many nay-sayers. we're talking about a few hours off of the 24 hr jump timer. that isn't going to create any universe breaking gameplay changes.would also accept 1 jump clone per day. more time playing rather than waiting out my timer is a good thing."
"+1 from me, the amount of times i have missed a crucial fight because i had to jump to empire 20 hours before is annoying and some of the suggestions presented here are very valid.i don't agree that it needs to be a free-for-all, it does still need some k"
"supported for the double jump within 48 hours.it's bad enough my old corp barely did any pvp ops at all because of inactivity and lack of numbers. even worse is when i jump clones, only to find out they cancelled it at the last second, leaving me stuck in a no-implant jump clone til the next day for no good reason. and i'm sure no one's gonna want to stay up 24 hours to maintain the focus, situational awareness, energy, and reflexes needed to pvp for that long or even close to it.and from the looks of it, most of the ppl who disapprove r just trolls just want to make the game less fun for everyone, including themselves."
"i don't think this system is going to work, however it is one of the best i've seen. the part about being able to bounty people based on standings is where it goes wrong. i've written an idea on the bounty system myself, which was simpler but in my opinion more effective: scrap the bounty system as it is currently.following: give people the ability to contract their killrights to others. inside this contract you can, if you want, also add a bounty which is eligible to the person that bought your killrights on a (private)contract. this way you can award certain individuals that you trust for killing your target.extensions to this idea would be that the killright could also be sold perhaps to a corp."
"and therein lies the problem. it's currently too easy for people to congregate from all over the map to join up with the uberblob of the day. all that results in is people staring at black screens for hours and whine threads in general discussion.i agree that it may well make things \"less annoying\" when it comes to larger scale fleet organisation, but my beef is the fact that other mechanics allow such large fleets to form to begin with. and so, as i believe this idea would only further enable that trend in the wrong direction if enacted, i cannot support it./ben"
"i can see where you're coming from, but training a rank 16 skill should have its benefits, right?meanwhile, i also like marlonas proposal:this could be the cue for introducing t2 tier three bss. limit command ships to giving bonuses to a single fleet branch and below, while these new command bss can do so for the whole fleet superstructure. other than that, give them awesome tank and low dps, like fleet command ships. also, with cost similar to a marauder and without the backup of insurance, it sure is a nice risk vs. reward balance.i really hope that improved game mechanics will decrease the incentive for blobbing. and just fyi, the next fleet step size would be 6406.that is a technical problem not related to this proposal.i already said i'd also favor game mechanics that didn't give incentive to blob, but in keeping with the games sandbox philosophy, the tools shouldn't be the limiting factor for emergent gameplay.i like this. but once you do that, the effect will almost be the same as having one large fleet..."
"sure"
"i agree with this.i suggest the skill be named......space marshal"
"i think the title is self explanatory, however just to give it some more teeth, main reasons are well firstly you decide that your original name was a bit naff and now its time for a change, secondly you bought a char and still think the name was a bif naff...see where we are going here....and thirdly your original choice was not available and hey you just found out it is..quick let me get it...oh wait...i cant...ccp can charge their usual $10 for this - extra revenue which im sure would be constantccp can implement a name change history log just like employment historywill this have an impact on ingame no not at all, if your not sure about someone, then check their history.either this or remove the checks for char, corp, alliance names that cant be the same, i still cant undertstand why the hell ccp did it this way..i mean why cant i havea char named fred and an alliance named fred, or infact even my corp.."
"not supported.if you would have used the search (in doubt"
"and you would have found that a lot of people support the idea."
"second this, thanks for necro'ing :)if plastic surgery services are offered by ccp, name changes should be supported as well."
"sorry for not being a geek and reading every eve forum..however be nice to know why you felt it wasnt supported..however supporting my own idea"
"absolutely not.one of the things that makes eve so unique is that your reputation sticks with you. take a look at the joe phoenix story, missceo, or pretty much anything that nexa necis has written about.even with the name change history, i think that this would be still not be a forward enough indicator as to who that person is - it's not their identity. it's linked to their identity, but it won't carry the same weight and won't be nearly as visible. if you want a namechange, reroll and try again."
"no. its hard enough keeping a track on corp thieves and spies as-is. your proposal has been discussed to death. no, no no!"
"if it was a one time thing per account and if on your show info somewhere it showed your previous alias.. so yeah why not? :)"
"not supported.disposable alts, trials etc are already too difficult to keep track of and manage giving many idiots easy ways to do what they please with little if any consequences. now you want to be able to escape your past on the idea that when naming your character that you will be investing hundreds of hours of time developing is something you did 'on a whim' read 'your original name was a bit naff and now its time for a change'. if you couldn't come up with a decent name you could live with why bother playing, it isn't hard picking a name that isn't crap like 'fdg8kds' so you won't ever need to change it. all a pilot has in eve that is constant is their name and you want to remove that, no no a thousand times no.even adding a list of previous names won't help, you can just change your name every month or week, or day or whatever interval they set if they even set one. you still have issues with standings, ally lists, out of game lists cause ccp hasn't upgraded the max in game. how about when i search for 'fdg8kds' is it going to show him as 'robert039' now that he changed or show he's gone? can someone else become 'fdg8kds' now that he has changed his name to 'robert039'? if so there's a new headache cause that person is always going to show that is their 'first name'. if not you've just increased the database entries of items that can never be used again, you didn't like 'darthvader394' well now no one else can use it ever again.you made a decision to name your character deal with it, if you can't handle the responsibility of naming a character in a game no one can help you quit playing computer games buy a goldfish and rename it everyday."
"1.0"
"supported"
"signed"
"always yet to more ui."
"ok, i was going to post something negative on this idea, but you had me with the propa-speak and russian-accent typing (or, if you want, ukrainian). bravo! next we nerf moose and squirrel! on to useful comments:as other respondents have pointed out, any modules that increase the attribute of missiles need to come with their concurrent ewar counters. the way the races are distributed i'm not sure who you would \"assign\" such technology to, but for lore purposes i guess it just be invented by gallente scientists or something.in the interest of fairness, it should be pointed out that there *is* a module that (effectively) boosts missile explosion radius and velocity: it's called a \"target painter\"--you just use it on the enemy ship, rather than your own.--krum"
"well, after having a corp member with far too many rights make an expensive mistake, i'd like to propose the following:if you 'win' an auction put up by a scammer you should be able to simply hold it, never claiming your item... and at the same time never letting the scammer get your isk.yeah, we're out the isk, since there's no way to retract a bid, i can live with that. but we should be allowed to deny the scammer the proceeds of their scam - by simply refusing to complete the auction, freezing the isk in limbo forever."
"so... you're not supporting this request because you hate carebears and think pvp is the only way to play eve. got it.supported, and it might help to be able to queue stuff up while a mod's still cycling, such as an ammo swap."
"no, no, no, please lets try to get them to do one thing at a time. (although a one move que would sure be nice)"
"best idea ever. supported."
"hulks would definitely be awesome if they didn't have to rely on deadspace mods for tanking.allowing shield extenders is probably overkill (highsec ganking of hulks will become harder), but an increased tank wouldn't affect the gank-abilty all too much."
"like this?[hulk, max tank]3x modulated strip miner ii (scordite mining crystal ii)small f-s9 regolith shield induction2x invulnerability field iiml-3 amphilotite mining probeemergency damage control imining laser upgrade ii2x medium core defence field extender i[statistics - agent unknown]effective hp: 20,200tank ability: 54.52 dpsdamage profile - <omni-damage> (em: 25.00%, ex: 25.00%, ki: 25.00%, th: 25.00%)shield resists - em: 70.41%, ex: 83.43%, ki: 82.24%, th: 76.33%armor resists - em: 64.40%, ex: 19.90%, ki: 33.25%, th: 42.15%capacitor: stable at 10%20k ehp is decent, but its tank ability is horrible (under 100 for all types). you have to fit a deadspace booster to tank 0.0 rats. suicide gank prevention is not my goal; it's just the ability to be able to active tank without seriously gimping the setup. as it stands, it can't even fit medium boosters.if needed, the powergrid boost can be reduced so an lse won't fit but a medium booster (or even large) will. of course, even with that it's difficult to tank triple bs spawns in it anyway because of its huge sig radius and slowness."
"not supported.a gistii b type small booster and dread gurista specific hardeners are cheap investments for a hulk pilot in 0.0; at least when i was mining out there, i was perma-tanking 3 battleship rats without problems."
"eve is supposed to be a dynamic not a static universe.problem of both 0.0 tanking without expensive modules and ganking with cheap t1 ships - practically 0 cost.a 0.0 ship is a 0.0 mining ship,, if the first ship into 0.0 blew up (there would have been no deadspace gear) then the ship would never have been flown and it would have been redesigned.boost it and boost it a lot.mackinaw is quite frankly insulting as it stands,,, wtf am i paying my subscription for ?while ur at it boost rorqual so it can toe to toe with 5+ bs or at least tank for a prolonged period."
"i wonder how much a basilisk or two would help tanking with the mining fleet op."
"it would help quite a bit, but that's not the point. the point is that the hulk has a horrific tank for what it's designed for, as does the mackinaw and the skiff."
"25k ehp tanks 82 passive (with purger rigs 97dps tanked but only 21k ehp)the extender fit has enough buffer and resists to have maybe an orca rr you (reps from a single medium shield transporter gives you wooping 298 dps tank! large puts you at 500.)your shield buffer should last long enough to kill eventual scrambling frigates and warp out if the dmg gets too much.imho expecting to be able to mine without support in 0.0/lowsec is funny. :)"
"i actually included that players make it. what would this game be if npcs ran the gambling hah"
"no! no! no! im sorry but im going to be a troll...this will not happen! eve is about doing it like it should be, not \"give care bears their free pvp safe haven\"you want pvp, go to lowsec/null, theres tons of it."
"this idea is bad and you should feel bad."
"the funny thing is, ccp did try this at some point, but the code was rejected by the server and ships where lost or something. anyways, they put it on hold for the time being.that isn't to say that they abandoned it all together. anyways, i'm in favor of this and always have been. i think all the people that are against it are afraid of a fair fight tbh and are afraid that if fair fights are available then they can't engage in unfair fights anymore i think that fact is, as long as there is something to fight for, real pvp will still occur, regardless of how fun or great arenas are. if \"world pvp\" stops, it's not because arenas ruined it, but because there is something fundamentally flawed with \"world pvp\"."
"this."
"there used to be a lot of unsolicited pvp on other on-line game, and one measure that was introduced , was the \"duel\" a player would click on other, and select the \"duel\" option to invite himthe other could accept or refuse.once accept , they would enter a new mode called duel, when one's hp would get to a certain point, the \"duel mode would end, with 1 point victory to the winner, and no loss of ship, for any of them, except the ammo and used items.that feature seemed to amuse a lot of different players, either the ones that liked pvp , and the more shy ones, or the ones that have other things to do, and would be willing to try.no player would lose the hp in that mode and no concord on them.possibly, that mode could only be available to high sec, and not among wartargets, to prevent escaping like that, as the target was rendered \"invulnerable\" (take damage but not die), to others, wile in that mode."
"larkonis is an idiot.but then so are are half the people posting in this thread, so why should he be centered out in particular?well, i'd say it's because his idiocy caused him to over step the boundaries placed upon all of us by what's acceptable in game and out. he broke the rules. like rmters and ebayers, he crossed the line.that he wasn't perma-banned is boggling enough, but to leave his name and any rewards he received as some sort of twisted memorial to his deeds would be the flip of the bird to the vast majority of players that do things by the rules.not supportedmr epeen"
"why would we reward an insider-trader with a medal for service from the body that he betrayed?"
"if i recall correctly, the ships themselves have pretty lousy stats, and it is special modules (or code) that give them the super abilities. so if paleyrs had the ships, they would not be all that valuable other then looking cool"
"so... this sounds like a bad idea. concord is supposed to be your god"
"implementing this to lo-sec as a human police is the only viable option.it could be actually interesting."
"for previously mentioned reasons, the core idea isn't usefull against gankers, concord is too efficient there, atleast in 0.0 space they are. in lowsec it's a different story. might be a fun mechanic there. and i also like the idea of people who work for concord being allowed to kill people with low security status who venture into nullsec. there are ballancing and abuse issues that might pop up, but the general idea seems interesting."
"looks like what you are asking for is bounty hunters, or a bounty hunting system that works. i'd like ccp to look at the bounty system and fix it maybe with a little bit of the flavour of the op here. however the way you framed the proposal i'm going to have to not give it a thumb."
"you can't even jump a fleet of 30 people through a gate without it taking upwards of a full minute just to drop from the current system. you click 'jump'..you see the notification..and you just sit there. after a few moments, the notification disappears and you are still there...so you click 'jump' again. again the notification shows up and you might even get the jump animation but you still aren't leaving the system.it's getting so bad that one can't even trust that clicking 'jump' once will actually register with the server. fix this **** already."
"sleepers are made to make pve combat resemble pvp combat a little bit better than normal npc combat does, and for pve players looking to get into pvp it can be an interesting stepping stone, aswell as that it's nice for pve players looking for something more challenging. because of this, i think ccp would do well to introduce special agents that give out missions against sleepers. the reason this can't be done by normal agents is because mission runners should be able to choose between normal missions and sleeper missions without having to decline them from normal agents, leading to standing losses.pros:-an extra challenge for pvp-ers who don't want the added risk of being attacked by players in a wormhole-a step inbetween pve and pvp for players looking to get experiencecons:-if the risk reward ratio isn't right then people will have no more reason to go into wormholes or to do lvl 4 ordinary missionsyour input on how to improve the idea would be very welcome."
"1. sleeper missions in normal space no.2. ccp said they want to move the ai to belt rats and mission rats later."
"i'd rather they kept mission ai the way it is, so that you can choose against which ai type you want to pit yourself in missions, hence the seperate sleeper missions. i'd imagine you'd have to adjust the salvage and loot if those missions are to take place in normal space, but just like you have acceleration gates leading to generated missions, why not introduce the same for wormholes?"
"sleepers were introduced as \"near pvp\" encounters, but time has proven they are farmed just like any other npc .. ai is very limited and its still scripted for the most part.n.space -> w.space missions is a good idea if done right.- one agent per empire, attached to one of the research corporation. located near empire centre.- mission involving killing x amount of y sleeper, pilot will have to find an appropriate wormhole to actually complete the mission.- mission involving scanning/hacking a sleeper structure, again appropriate wh needed.etc. etc.would require players to first travel to possibly 0.0 (should be random, perhaps with a tilt towards lowsec wh's) to locate the right wh.gather allies to assist if a nstier one and then risk life and limb in w.space complete with possible \"owners\" and gankers.to be really evil, the missions cannot be remotely completed, so one has to get out as well after completion (low-sec wh's are frequently camped in certain areas) difficulty should be same or higher than l5's which are also designed as group encounters (even those are solo-farmed now though )."
"not exactly the effect i was after, but on the flip side, it might send more people into lowsec which a lot of people seem to want."
"not exactly the effect i was after, but on the flip side, it might send more people into lowsec which a lot of people seem to want.i know, its off a tangent in relation to yours, but if you look at it then it is merely a fleshed out version no amount of ai scripting will ever be the same as a person in combat. npc's would need access to every module/effect in game and have semi-random ship statistics in order to emulate pvp .. just not possible until quantum computers are common place.reason i went with low-sec is not only the starved nature of those areas but also since one must assume that the empires \"control\" a majority of the wh's cropping up in high-sec and send their own survey teams. similar to the billions of people moving around between planets in invisible shuttles (or do you think we poddies are the only ones in space?)."
"for what i had in mind i was aiming for wormhole space that couldn't be occupied by other players, like mission space that noone else can get to unless the wormhole was scouted out during your mission. doesn't that sound appealing to you?"
"not really. if i want that i can do normal l4/l5 missions .. same general effect.w.space was introduced as a wild-card containing forces outside the control of humanity, with holes appearing and disappearing at random.if they were to be used as just another ded-space instance for missions then the whole thing loses meaning.ccp have been putting some effort into making the arc missions less \"grindy\" by having different branches and enemies to shoot.what i would like is a combination of exploration (dead easy with new probing) and team/group oriented missions. a place where small-gang/fleet skills can be honed complete with use of rr, ecm et al.i can't really say that sleepers pose much of a challenge, after a while they become just another rat to be blasted .. very simple ai still, but better than the vanilla version.when i do bother to farm isk to fuel my pvp i want it to be done with as fast as possible since the only real challenge is against human opponents (ref. previous ai scripting comment), rest is a time-sink."
"well, when i'm looking for a bigger challenge than lvl 4 missions i'm not always also looking for cooperation with other players, that's a different thing alltogether. if i want to solo pve, and lvl 4s are getting boring, lvl 5s are in low-sec, what do i do for an extra challenge? that's the underlying issue that spawned my idea."
"solo exploration in class 2 / class 3 wormhole systems."
"what i am looking for is a pure pve option, those wormhole systems are 0.0 and tend to be occupied by wormhole settlers."
"sorry, them's the breaks. eve is meant to not have private \"instances\" for a reason. no super-duper pve only content should be available."
"true, that's the design philosophy by the makers, and yet the pve playerbase is growing steadily, how much longer will ccp insist on having a design philosophy that differs from what the majority is after?"
"can i have a capital mining ship that eats entire belts at once, and can be used in highsec?thanks, ccp!imo, pve players do not need more loving right now, especially not isk-wise."
"correct, the playerbase has been growing steadily. why change what has been an obviously successful approach?"
"it depends on how the different types of player populations are growing in relation to eachother. if the ballance is shifting slowly, then the circumstances change accordingly, and the playerbase demands of the game on average will also alter as a result."
"there are things in eve that have been neglected for years.missions have recently got the epic mission arcs.just because missioning is a huge part of many eve players daily routine shouldn't make it top priority, constantly."
"i'm not aiming at increased income really, just increased challenge. if the missions i proposed didn't give isk rewards, just medals for completing them i'd still be satisfied."
"if you want increased challenge step out into real w-space. the challenge is already there waiting. missions that send people off into w-space would be fine.. a good addition that could encourage mission runners to spread their wings a bit. missions that provide sleepers within the boundaries of \"safe\" space would be bad, it's not additional challenge, it's the simulation of additional challenge within a secure environment. the ultimate increased challenges are already there... why not take them?"
"pve gameplay is a controlled, designed experience, pvp is not. it's just an entirely different type of gameplay, that i'm not looking for at the same time when i'm looking for pve gameplay. i go to fw for my pvp experience, which i enjoy. i have nothing against pvp, but i like keeping my pve and pvp seperated."
"ok, to get things straight, am i seeing that the idea of missions against sleepers isn't being opposed as long as it's not a pve-engine but a way of getting more people into the normal 0.0 wormholes and also into lowsec? (i'm not opposed to the idea, it just wasn't what i originally had in mind)"
"sure, i think missions that sent people off into w-space could be a nice addition. the agent could even provide coordinates for a wormhole and then a specific objective in the w-space system."
"sounds good to me, and what about the exit to the wormhole being in low-sec so the player has to travel back to the agent through low-sec? or is that a bad idea? (lowsec being as unpopular as it is amongst pve-ers i doubt players would do these missions if low-sec was involved)"
"i think some of each would be fine. even going directly from high-sec, jumping into an unknown system brings a new level of risk/interaction/challenge to the mission. that w-space system could be completely empty or there could be active pilots in the system. even if it's empty, the possibility that someone is in the system without local giving it away adds a psychological challenge. i find that most wormhole explorers end up in hybrid pvp/pve fit ships, designed to handle multiple and unknown situations. simply getting away from the optimized pve fits adds another level of challenge. do you fit a cloak?the mission wormhole will only stay open so long.. is there a risk of getting trapped? do you fit a probe launcher? these are mostly new questions for the pve-only pilots to consider. good stuff."
"what if you got shot, get killrights, want the agressor to suffer, but the place you got shot was hulkageddon! the only thing you're actually good at is shooting asteroids and building the ships that kill you! you have the killrights, but you can't do anything with them... so, who do you conctract? someone who can shoot your targets for you! contract your killrights!the whole point of this proposal is that you can sell your killrights through contracts. it's pretty straight forward: you get shot, you sell the killrights to whoever wants to buy them. it allows you the peace of mind of knowing that someone probably hunts the target; you earned money on getting shot.on the other side of the story, you want to kill people in highsec, but you don't want to waste your sec status as a missionrunner. you're at -1.9 and if you kill someone now, you're not able to access your mission agent. wardec is also not an option as you'd be camped to bits and can't earn your isks while you got 4 hostiles trying to shoot you up. what do you do? buy killrights! 5 mil for freddy? you've seen him buying new guns in your system, so let's just wait till he warps in and shoot the spine out of his back! bountieswhen you contract your killrights to someone, you will have the ability to add a bounty you deem fit to killrights. someone might pay 5 mil for your killrights, but you attached a 15 mil bounty which will be given to the buyer when he kills the target. this is meant to encourage actively hunting the person you're allowed to kill.also please note! there also exists something called a private contract! you can choose who you give your killrights + bounty to! i wouldn't add a bounty on killing freddy if i know the first thing that freddy is going to do is buy the killrights with an alt and earn himself the bounty. bounty hunter professionthis idea, in my opinion, gives people a lot more room to create a dedicated bounty hunter profession. if some bounty hunters are specifically efficient in killing their targets people might trust them, and start giving their killrights to this group. this group in turn makes sure that the targets die. everyone is happy, and more pvp emerges further ideas could be:- being able to contract killrights to corporations, or sharing your killrights with your corporation.- killing people through contracted killrights could give a slight standing loss, which could be reduced or removed with a few skills?- being able to see who has killrights on you, through skills.anyway, discuss!"
"you know you could have basically the same system without having killrights involved at all. all you're trying to do is privatize the bounty system which could easily be done with a bounty mail box. people apply for the hit, you allow them the chance at the money personally with a click of the mouse. first one to collect erases the contract. no killrights needed. this way i can put a bounty on someone for cutting me off at a gate if i so please. the way it should be... if there's a bunch of bounties on one target the hunter has the option to apply to all. this is 1 of the only 2 plausible bounty systems. the other being the random target generator ran by npc corps. i'd personally like to see both employed sometime in the near future."
"i'm afraid that calling the thread a \"fix to the bounty system\" might have been misleading for you. your part about currently not needing killrights at all? not really. have you ever tried shooting someone with a 10mil bounty in highsec? i daresay you haven't. if you shoot someone in highsec that is not flashing red, you're either suicide ganking, or you haven't got a clue what you're doing.privatising the bounty system? i suppose it's added as encouragement to hunt your targets. if everyone can indiscriminately claim the bounty without the contract, it's just as broken as it is currently. you just kill yourself with an alt to get the bounty that has been placed on yourself. you get rewarded twice, when you kill someone, and when he places a bounty on you, which is the core problem of the current system.my system basically allows you to sell killrights. if you get shot by someone, this system primarily allows you to sell the rights for retaliation to someone else. the chance for pvp is worth something in eve online, especially in highsec. this system would be worth less in nullsec or lowsec, but it's worth a lot more where it counts, namely highsec. the bounty attachment is just a subfeature to encourage active hunting even through lowsec or nulsec."
"perhaps something along the lines of the fw system where you join in a station. you could join the bounty hunters (which would require a high sec status). since a person has to have a negative status the bounty hunters would be allowed to kill anyone with a bounty against them and collect the bounty. perhaps a way for the outlaws to defend themselves from bounty hunters as well such as a special flag for bounty hunters on an overview and perhaps a way for outlaws to fire first in a highsec system perhaps based off their negative sec status and the sec status of the system that they are in. similar to how fw folks can fire on one another in highsec(at least i think they can).so if a outlaw has a high bounty he can still run to a high enough highsec and be safe, until he is chased out of highsec by raising his negative status as he is chased out of highsec he becomes a target for bounty hunters wanting make a quick buck. since it takes a while to grind to a highsec status this could slow down the amount of meta gaming for isk that comes from the current bounty system (though probably not eliminate it completely.bounty hunters would have access to high end agents able to sniff out their bounties in highsec also.i know it has some holes but i hope the idea makes sense.also before you say that this would just allow people with lowsec status to be attacked in highsec, if you have a negative sec status you have already fired upon someone else and lost status. so you have already agreed that you want to pvp... you might not just like it being consensual for a change."
"not supported.war dec them or can flip them in current system. that or go to low/null sec and just shoot them."
"not supported.op and supporters clearly are targeting miners because they can't mine themselves and need precious ore to sustain themselves but are not capable of training mining skills. if you need to steal from miners so bad you need to try to introduce a change to play that makes items and their method of use moot you are a failure."
"you're right. the feeling of distance would not be at stake because that feeling is long gone from eve already.not supported./ben"
"supportin brining back warp 15k away from gate , and dissalow all bm within 15k area of the gate.also cyno jammer module with 30k radius.and nerf local.if anywhere eve should go into that direction.otherwise it will be one cluster**** after the other , of which we have a taste right now."
"1. move 20km behind the gate2. bookmark the spot3. warp to that spot @ 20km4. land on gate @ 05. ???6. profiton topic; not supported, reducing warp time will do exactly what you say it wont; feeling of distance will be even greatly reduced.ccp has continuosly reduced vastness of eve through various methods, warp to 0, jump bridges, jump freighters, jump clones. all that means that more people can be at the same point of space at the same time thus producing more blobs."
"1. move 20km behind the gate2. bookmark the spot3. warp to that spot @ 20km4. land on gate @ 05. ???6. profithmm that sucks.removing all bookmarks from gates grid seems a little bit too drastic.we are doomed for small eve."
"if by variation you mean :projectiles : ultimate alpha, changable damage , no cap usagelaser : ultimate dps and trackinghybrids : sucking in all of the above if it is that what you mean by \"variation\" then yeah i agree . hybridd are really special like no other guns."
"\"variation\" is sucking hybrids on caldari ships or much more sucking hybrids on gallente ships"
"i think he's convinced that eagles aren't supposed to be snipers.also if you look at the suggestions offered thus far instead of just reflexively rejecting anything you didn't immediately like you can see more then a few suggestions that would maintain or even increase the 'flavor' differences between weapons systems. rof suggestions for example would be acceptable for me at least so long as the cap issues related to rails are also dealt with."
"the eagle has no dronebay, no pg to use it's one utility slot, and cap problems.it's a tradeoff, each ship is best *in a certain role*. for example, the amazing tracking and damage of the zealot, with radio at 100 km, kills frigates in a way that the eagle and deimos can't even dream of.sorry to see that noir. has someone as misinformed and bad at fitting as you, mate. stop being short sighted, 15% raild damage increase does not even come close to the zealot's performance. it just stops caldari pilot from crosstraining because they are fed up with doing piddly damage. by the way, i don't see how that + 10% pg increase will make eagle op or change it's flavor.such a fix would just make railboats suck a bit less vs the other turret ships. plz read my proposal and all the comparisons i offer, as well as the justification for my numbers before any knee jerk reactions. thank you."
"anything that makes rails more even in the game!"
"#1 if a zealot switches to blood radio, it does less damage than an eagle#2 it's absurb to suggest that balancing ships around the zealot is the right approach.#3 the eagle has almost identical damage to the muninn - hence why i said that a 10% damage buff would bring it in line. remember that the eagle's other advantage is in being able to outrange all the other hacs - with that 10% buff, it'll do reasonable damage with spike past the 200km mark.#4 i already said that the deimos is a terrible sniper. read the ship description and it'll be obvious why.did you even read my posts?"
"i read your posts twice. you are misinformed or haven't done enough research on sniperhacs.zealot: 299 (740) @ 93+13 (aurora), 21k ehpmunnin: 224 (1966) @ 81+22 (tremor), 25k ehpdeimos: 235 (824) @ 84+37 (spike), 20k ehpeagle: 235 (824) @ 79+25 (uranium), 19.5k ehpi get these numbers from eft and it could be screwd up but they are consistently so and are based on the same premises. they are as similar as possible, shield buffered and 3 damage mods for each ship, with an optimal of roughly 80km, but let's see what patterns emerge from them.eagle/deimos alpha = 1.12 * zealot alphamunnin alpha = 2.4 eagle/deimos alphazealot dps = 1.27 eagle/deimos dpseagle/deimos= 1.04* munnin dpsso, even if we disregard the huge difference in buffer, we can see that the ship performing the best atm as a sniper is the munnin, with a huge alpha advantage. even with a 15% increase to the damage of railguns, the eagle and deimos do not even come close to being as good as the other two sniper boats. the 10% pg increase for eagle will allow it to fit the same buffer as the rest of them with one fitting mod and not two.finally, you mention the fact that the eagle reaches with spike out to 200km, however, it hasn't got enough targeting range to be able to do so. so that argument is null and bringing it into the conversation when the operating range for sniperhacs is 80-100kms, denotes ignorance. unless you propose to increase eagle's base locking range so it can hit out to 200km, or add another mid slot for the 2nd sensor booster. do you really think that is a better attempt at balancing?i really expect more from noir."
"those numbers have nothing to do with the fits i posted, try again.run the fits i posted - then add 10% more damage to the eagle (which i indicated i would support), and then see how they match up. (at this point the eagle will have more dps than a muninn and 2x the tracking, the muninn has a dronebay, more alpha, and 1 more utility high; the eagle has the ability to snipe at far greater distances.)here's what i have a big problem with - your suggested changes to rails don't solve the underlying problem, theres nothing to make rails \"unique\" as a weapon system. lasers have more dps, artillery has more alpha, rails have ... what? i reckon it'll be reasonable to give the eagle 10% more grid, but not all caldari railboats, the rokh is already one of the easiest snipers to fit, and does reasonable damage."
"then support the notion conditionally? my numbers are an estimate, based on what i have encountered in game. if ccp decides to change the railguns they will implement their numbers anyway, i am just hoping to prod them in the correct direction. the important concept here is that railguns do need a damage increase, be it through rof/ less cap or damage modifier or ammo changes. to say that you don't support the notion because of the numbers is kind of lame, since you agree that there is a need for change.as far as flavor goes, i think that rails do stand half-way between projectiles and lasers, throwing mass using electromagnetic fields to do so instead of explosives. however, apart from game flavor, they need to be able to fulfill the mechanics of the game. so the numbers really have nothing to do with flavor, that's already there by the nature of the weapon system. the numbers are there as a game mechanic. so the flavor will remain, because of damage type and cap consumption.why not add your support with a provision?thanks"
"agreed on the rokh - needing one rcu is not unduly onerous for a fleet sniper. however, lack of grid *is* a general problem with (battle)cruiser-sized caldari railboats - the moa and ferox are near-unfittable with rails. the raptor and cormorant are also very short on grid, but i'd rather see the cormorant addressed as part of an overall rebalancing of destroyers.edit: in terms of rails' 'flavor'... in my ideal world, rails' and beams' tracking would be swapped. arty = alpha, beams = dps, rails = tracking/range. not gonna happen, though. v0v"
"i think that the rails are quite aptly fitted as far as the qualitative nature of their characteristics. their issues lie within the exact quantitative attributes for them. thus, the proposal is geared towards a generic increase to the damage rails deliver, not how they do so. as long as the dps/cost increases by 15% by what ever route is deemed as more appropriate- be it higher rof/ less cap, ammo changes or straight damage modifier boost-, then we'll see a better balance.as far as the 10% pg increase, it is tied with railgun pg requirements and the ability for caldari boats to field the higher tier and an adequate buffer. if ccp considers that it's better to reduce the pg requirements for rails by 10%, that would be acceptable too, although it would make gallente railboats a bit more powerfull than i think they should be.anyway, it would be interesting to hear the opinion of the csm on this."
"here's what i hope will develop sometime in the future to provide all the long ranged guns with a suitably large niche.railgunspros: best damage at 160-180+, fairly low cap used, longest base rangecons: burns through ammo quickly reducing it's endurence and minimzing ammo types, high pg/cpu requirements (more then current)beamspros: best damage at lower ranges, high tracking, quick ammo switchescons: high cap useartillerypros: super high alpha, no cap usecons: lowest base rangerailguns would excel at fixed ranged engagements of somewhat limited length, beams would excel at engagements with more varied ranges or shorter ranges that can last a long time and artillery would excel at providing 'shock' damage in ambush/initial engagement situations.for me this change is a baby step in the right direction that at least makes rails viable if not particularily flavorful. since viability>flavor it will at least provide some semblence of balance until another attempt to overhaul is made."
"medium rails don't need as much of a damage boost as large rails (large rails have big problems). about 5% more damage is the most they should get.deimos is mid-range/damage/alpha - comfortable enough below other ships that a small boost really won't make it shine.eagle has silly range, low damage, and slightly low alpha.honestly, the silly range of an eagle balances out those other two pretty well. 5% more damage would bring the eagle's alpha out of last place, dps would remain at the bottom though."
"do you realise that a sniper hyperion has the same dps as an apoc at 190 km?"
"so a ship with 5% damage bonus only gets equal dps to ship with no damage bonus?"
"i dont have any logical fallicies , what you are having are accuracy fallicies,either accidentily through error or misconception or deliberately to try to mislead.in the off topic post where you were critisizing my argument you failed to mention anything about combat tactics.cara fits can carry multiple missile types. therefore it is a base ability that has to be taken into account when judging what are and what are not optimal combat tactics.instead you went of on some rave about me not assigned module status to missiles.now this is the 7th post you have made in a row where you have failed to debate the op.stop debating the debate and debate the op.this is the point we were at before you had to resort to evasion.as you have posted and not replied to my brutix answers ( i was waiting to see what you had to say on that ) i will continue and bring the debate back round to the kin issue of the op )brutix fit.[lows]2 x mar.players choice of resist mods and mag stabs / te's[mids]scramwebinjectormwd[highs]( cloak for solo low sec roaming only )best blasters that can be fitted with remainining grid/cpu[rigs]choice of ( as required for fit )resist rigshybrid rigsgrid rigsthis is a brutix fit for solo/small gang/pirate gate camp work.combat tactics required.load am - close to short range on enemy , apply scram and web , blast them to bits.ororbit at optimal of ammo ( any choice acceptable ) , applying scram and web , blast them to bits a bit slower.use scout or ( mwd/cloak ) when necessary to avoid blobs.now to the bonus.in all engagements the brutix will enjoy full use of its armor rep bonus.the brutixes bonus is 100% compatible with its combat tactics 100% of the time when fitted as above.now. jt your turnplease show me the caracal fit that can use its kin bonus 100% of the time when usings its combat tactics.caracals combat tactics include using optimal ammo for the target.if you cannot do the above then you concede the point that brutix bonuses are not incompatible with brutix combat tactics in the same way that cmb bonuses are incompatible with cmb combat tactics."
"you are just plainly asserting that. i have shown that you made a special pleading. if you object to that, you have to demonstrate it, not just assert that it's not."
"you never demonstrated anything about my argument.all you did was make an accusation.accusation <> demonstation.the only thing you have managed to demonstrate is your inability to back up the claims you make about the op in someway being innacurate.9 posts , 2 pages and about twelve hours have passed since you latched onto stil's mistaken comparisons of bonuses.and you have still not been able to come up with the required fit to prove the link between brutix and cmb bonuses.i therefore claim victory on this issue.furthermore this is the last time i will be replying to any post you make.i am not going to debate with you any further, as its clear you only wish to derail this thead with meta arguments about meta arguments about meta arguments about meta arguments.1/10 for trolling prowess, this is now what your 7th failure to disrupt this post ?"
"how is that not a demonstration?- you created the premise that if a ship can be fitted to use 100% of its bonuses, then the bonuses are not wasted. you used it to show that brutix's bonuses are not wasted because it is conceivable to fit an armor repairer on it.- you later created a loophole saying that missiles are exempt from this fitting rule because they can be fitted and unfitted during combat (i.e. \"using combat tactics\"). thus, from the loophole, you conclude that caracal's bonuses are wasted because it is conceivable that it won't stick to 100% kinetic missiles.how is it not special pleading?and... preemptive dodge much?"
"i have not created a \"loophole\" , or stated that there are any fitting rules.every missile launcher fitted to every ship in eve has the ability to fire any type of missile designed to fit that launcher.this is not a situation of my creation.it is the game we play as designed by ccp.you are accusing me of doing things over which i have no say or control."
"do you mean, that cmbs were designed by ccp to fire fully bonused (1) optimal (2) ammo in every situation(3)? or have i misunderstand you?"
"active armour tanking a brutix. stop, it's too much. btw dav, you didn't reply to my idea that you should propose fixing the typhoon by removing a missile and turret slot, otherwise it cannot benefit from its bonuses. i'd be very interested to hear your stance on this."
"2.5%. rof bonus. everyone wins...?"
"you seems to have lost ..ahem i mean flew quite a few phoons what are your thoughts on it ?or do the following.get eft.fix out a phoon with 4 siege , 4 ac.run a dps report for hull training 0 ( if thats possible in eft )run a dps report for hull training 5then do the following calculation (( dps[5] / dps[0] ) - 1 ) * 100that'll give you the dps increase of the hull of the joint bonuses.do it again for 5/3 splits and see if its any different.be constuctive for a change.come back here and let us know what you have found out.i'd prefer if you did this , as i dare say i'd get accused of cherry picking , making it up , suffering for x number of syndromes etc if i did it.of the top of my head i'd guess that youd be looking at a number around the 25% mark.then i'll be more than happy to comment on anything you have found."
"i've read this twice and it still doesn't make any sense. i have no idea what you are talking about, or why. it certainly isn't relevant to what i wrote. it just appears to be your normal move of ignoring people's comments and blathering on regardless.so we return to my point. you have a problem with ships that cannot make full use of their bonuses. the typhoon is one such ship, since it cannot fit 5/5 projectiles/missiles. the only solution to this problem, by your \"logic\", since we cannot add highslots, is to remove a missile slot and turret. voila, it can now make full use of its bonuses and is therefore \"fixed\".this is, of course, absolute horse****, thereby demonstrating that your rationale for changing these ships is completely moronic, not to put too fine a point on it."
"so you have just stated that your phoon \"problem\" argument is horse**** !!i agree you are talking horse**** , as per usual."
"are you dumb or what?. if you don't see what gypsio iii are talking about here, you have already lost this discussion because of stupidity."
"he didn't asked what's the overall percentual damage increase of the typhoon. but how to use it's bonuses to [b]100%[b]. every single one of them.your post suggest this: if you don't fill all available weapon mounts of bonused type, you're still use it's bonus to 100%practical example 1: typhoon with 3 turrets uses its projectile bonus to 100%practical example 2: drake with 3 launchers uses its missile bonus to 100%extreme example: drake with signle launcher uses its missile bonus to 100%so unless you come up with idea, how to fill both missile bays and turret hardpoints, your argument is moot and has absolutely nothing to do with his question.also: i could argue that percentual dps increase does not indicate how the bonuses are used, using prophecy as example.you could counter stating that prophecy is tank modded ship and does not need damage increase.i could counter that drake is tank modded ship and does not need damage increase, too. (even it actally does some damage increase as plus).you could then accuse me of trolling.... and do this dance foreverand now, could you finally stop dodging and address my caracal fit/tactics for page before?"
"what ?i offered to look at the phoon bonuses and give him my opinion , which he had requested.when i asked him for some numbers for a starting point , he started to cry.i dont know what the dudes issues are i more than happy to take a look at the phoon.sure dude i'd be happy too.for people who may just jump to the end of the topic and to keep it all in context.would you be so kind as to repost your caracal fit in as much detail as possible please.and also restate what the combat tactics are.we were trying to achive optimal combat tactics and 100% bonus usage at the same time right ?to refute the claim in the op that this is not possible with cmb's."
"jeez, looking one page backwards would require too much effort from you, right?let me add to \"to refute the claim in the op that this is not possible with cmb's.\" \"under the same terms you made available for your brutix example\".ok, here goes the fit:fit hmls with kinetic missiles, cloak.fit mwd, shield tank, sensor boosters.fit nano.and here tactics:have a tackler to keep target at place.take out target from distance.use scout or ( mwd/cloak ) when necessary to avoid anything other than t1 armor tankers and t2 minmatar ships.is this answer good enough for you?"
"noone of the other main objections in the op is caldari woeful soloability.its been there from the start.i am not trying to dodge.but the brutix fit i gave you was solo/small gangyou have not giving me a setup i can use if i have no friends , and i dont :(please fit tackle and we can start from there."
"oh sorry. my mistake. i always thought gallente were geared for solo/small gang at short distance warfare and caldari for larger fleet engagements and range. (silly me, i guess all those range bonuses confused me)also you didn't say anything it has to be for solo. i assumed i should use optimal tactics (long range is for caldari).anyway, keep the hmls. scratch the cloak (no slot for it anyway ;) ). replace sensor booster with scram. rcu ii to actually fit it. 1 low slot for whatever fits and 3 rig slots at your disposal.tactic doesn't change much. except you have to rely on scout more.(actually, the best fit would be to fit drake, since you're using brutix as example but that's another story)"
"having a scout is not solo either dude.you can keep the tackler if you really want to , i just dont want you in 30 posts time turning round to me and saying i am doing a bait and switch or whatever.you can play for the removal of the whole phrase in the op, or you can play for an * against it , with the asterik stating whatever we work out.if the requirements of your combat tactics require a second player or account then asterisk is the best i am willing to offer you , i can tell you that right now.ok lets start hammering out the details. ( mostly tactics ).if you are going to keep a second player ( scout or tackle ) then that is going into the requirements.requirements for a caldari missile boat pilot to fight optimally and keep his bonuses at all times during combat.1a. obtain the services of another player or1b. obtain a second account and a second monitor and graphics card if your current graphics card only support 1 monitor.2. obtain a ship for said character to fly.3. obtain and supply modules to second character.ok so we can only engage targets with week kinetic** resists otherwise we are not fighting with optimal ammo (read tactics) or we have discarded the kinetic bonus ans therefore failed in out goal.t1 armor tankers and t2 mini are a good place to start.but there is the possibiity that the enemy player has fitted a kin hardner , this is especially likelly with t2 who quite often like to patch that hole.so we need a ship scanner to see what modules he has fitted.where would you like to put the ship scanner.would you like this on your scout tackler or would you like to fit it to the cara ?.**kinetic must be the lowest resist orno more than 5% higher than the next lowest resist if we are hull skill level 1.no more than 10% higher than the next lowest resist if we are hull skill level 2.no more than 15% higher than the next lowest resist if we are hull skill level 3.no more than 20% higher than the next lowest resist if we are hull skill level 4.no more than 25% higher than the next lowest resist if we are hull skill level 5."
"in the original post of this argument you usedto evade situations, where your fit is not optimalthen suddenly i'm not allowed to use scout, to evade situations, where mine fit is not optimal.this is textbook example of special pleading fallacy. please read the article.also i would recommend to you read at least definition of fallacy to understand, what fallacy is.ps1: i wonder your solo brutix (without scout) will perform in drag bubble camp.ps2: on scout, does it matter? even if i should reduce my engagements to ganking t1 haulers, the situation you described exists. therefor i proved my argument.ps3 (edit): not using scout is not solo, that's mental deficiency."
"can i remove \"use scout or ( mwd/cloak ) when necessary to avoid blobs.\"?because in the case you actually get into the blob, your fit is not optimal. 2 mars simply won't have time to repair amount of hp provided by single plate. therefor i proved your argument...wrong!"
"sucks to leave your drones behind."
"only on a disconnect and reconnect to drones should be automatic if you are returning from a disconnect emg warp out.sorry if you leave it too late and have to warp out to save your ship.its your own fault.plus all sorts of baits , exploits are possible with off grid safes.lots of sentries left at a gate anyone.warp onto grid well out of range and reconnect to start fighting now that you out of harms way ?"
"you raise a good point, but i wouldn't call that an exploit. i'd call it tactics--and bad tactics at that.so they drop their sentries and then warp off-grid. now they have to detect a target, jump back in, reconnect, target, then engage--all while micromanaging the proposed 10 minute countdown by warping in, reconnecting, and warping back out again.that's not really any more effective than just jumping in and deploying the sentries straight off. it also isn't really a good baiting trap since the sentries will be on-grid when someone shows up... kind of a giveaway if you see that the drones are still active."
"showing my sincerest support for this noble cause."
"there's sound in this game?"
"hardly, that is why we want it fixed :p"
"eve has sound??sto, albeit dumbed down severely, runs multiple clients flawlessly with the sound on.i wonder where ccp screwed the pooch on that score."
"\"can haz sound?\" dev-blogs please.it. needs. to. be. fixed.new players are choosing not to subscribe because the sound doesn't work properly, it gives a horrible first impression."
"supported"
"nothing would make me happier than to have properly working sound."
"this.as usual, supporting any threads related to fixing the buggy sound engine."
"it's 2010, not 1910! movies have had sounds for almost 100 years, but it seems (some) games still don't have understand why sound is important."
"supported.i turn the sound off now cause it sounds too choppy, and the station / gate sounds are too loud.i would like to hear eve again"
"this is exactly what needs to happen, shields get ehp and increased regen while armor get ehp bonus. this is balnced because armor generally has a larger buffer to start with and the bonus is percent based."
"for the love of piracy please make this happen"
"supporting post #13 implantation ( i can do that, right? )"
"please fix this."
"i fully agree.i'll support this idea."
"that's true. but it could render it way easier to use...technically spoken true again. but i'd like to see it getting some kind of official touch, maybe even a little support by ccp (i guess, they have also some professionals in the team that might be willing to lend a hand...). but the latter is more of a dream than a real wish ;)"
"this will be dealt with."
"welcome to the part where self-control and personal responsibility become important.it's not like you didn't have to actually type the words in and hit enter. swear all you like outloud - yell and scream if that's what floats your boat.but you'll have a hard time convincing ccp to change their stance and lose that teen rating, since that will severely limit where they can sell those nice boxed editions of the game."
"ccp have absolved themselves from responsibility with the warning that states online interactions are unmoderated.ccp themselves said **** many times at the fanfest keynote address, not to mention the htfu theme song.so ****ing what if i have a poor **** of a ****ing vocab. get the **** over it.any ban from ccp based on language is completely hypocritical when compared to the culture that has been fostered and the freedom that has been given to players."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.\"online interactions not rated by the esrb\"indeed, eve will instantly lose the t rating when the rule is loosened on something that isn't rated in the first place.i am not proposing the rule is removed entirely; changing the particular line to:\"you may encounter and converse with people who are rude, offensive, belligerent, and who may use indecent, obscene, and/or threatening or harassing language while playing the game. you may report any extreme instances of such behavior to ccp.\"would be enough to stop blatant abuse of the system for the sole purpose of getting someone in trouble for utterly meaningless infractions of a rule that very few people adhere to in the first place; a large portion of the subscriber base - in particular victims to corp theft, scams, and such - swear in game, is it right that i could petition every instance of swearing of these people, causing even further backlogs in the petition queue, and having them unfairly warned or banned? (*blue-face'd; gasps*)"
"you have far more faith in the good nature of humanity than i do, obviously."
"fixed that for you.but no, not particularly; if i did, this thread wouldn't exist."
"heh a matar just lost a fw fight.so now the amarr that killed him has to wait 2 days without any skill training while his frivolous petition is dealt with.victory through petition?geeeeez this is stupid."
"i do agree that this is stupid.if anything, ccp should make a toggle-able \"profanity\" filter, like seen in most other mmos.most people i've played eve with don't seem to give a flying rat about whether you swear a little (although i realize that there's probably some people who gets scared and go hides under their bed when they hear hear anything worse than \"guys, that was the most poor performance i've ever seen!\")"
"that **** is ****ing ******ed and needs to go the **** away right ****ing now"
"simply put, if a paint shop was put into the game the lag would not increase, except for those with bad graphic's cards and horrid computers. as the models would stay the same as they are now, and the server would only tell clients computers what color to make the ship, just as it does when you change your ships name, or when you fire your turrets, all the coding would be almost identical, as long as its setup correctly."
"i don't see why not. though, i can only imagine how common black ships will be.anyone remember navy mega's before dominion? people bought those just because they looked cool.(though, yes, i would like to see gawdaweful paint jobs like 'space forest camo' be done away with)this has my support. i see no reason why this shouldn't be allowed."
"im all for the subject getting the go ahead im in my target sorry hulk painted in yellow and red not to be funny about it but who the hell wants to paint a flying brick in the traditional colours of a target red/yellow i know wouldnt make me invisible or such like but if im gonna die in my mining ship please let me not die looking like a bloody target lol.p.s.would be cool to see whole war fleets painted up in similer colours and if possible with thier corp logo printed on the ship somewhere"
"supported!"
"may i draw your attention to this linkage?wiki entry \"rejected issues\" categorythis proposal was rejected by csm3 and wasn't updated since. so why give it another shot?not supported."
"you can draw attention all you want; that was the last csm, there is now a new csm. it was not proposed to ccp and therefore ccp did not reject it."
"i support fixing the bounty system. i would like to add the following suggestions.1. make the bounty system similar to contracts. players have to spend isk to setup bounties and they have time limits. they are also better organized and regulated.2. allow players to \"counter-contract\" bounties.players that have a \"target bounty\" posted against them can then setup reverse bounties against others. this would help limit the obvious harrassment bounties....just ideas."
"what makes this interesting is how this would interact with a gang, or would it just limit it to one solo hunter?i'd say having kill rights as a prerequisite for a bounty makes sense and also helps limit exploitation (ie if the freighter pilot isn't going around blowing up ships a bounty couldn't be placed on him in order to secure gank rights)."
"i think this needs revising and editing before it can be raised. take in account the comments so far, rewrite it, and i will raise it for next meeting."
"do what i do and disable forum signatures. it makes the forums much more readable. it isn't the size of the file, it's all the people that feel a deep need to have 3-4 lines of pointless quotes plus an extra 200+ vertical pixels of e-peen."
"this a very good question. as long as they don't allow blinking gifs, larger files should be allowed.highly doubt it would take more than a few minutes of time to make the change - that would hardly impact anything else the programmers are working on."
"i remember the days when a 10 person fleet was called a \"blob\" - oh wait, that was today. people use the word \"blob\" for any fleet larger than their fleet or any fleet large enough that they no longer feel special. this is a multiplayer game - it is designed and marketed as a game where you can join a big fleet and shoot at another big fleet.eve isn't going to stop having large fleets. limiting a fleet size to 256 clearly does nothing to stop people from forming large fleets. fix the shortsighted fleet limitation. as to the question of will we ask for the limitation to be raised when fleets start rolling out in the thousands rather than hundreds - yes. if ccp invests in hardware and \"need for speed\" to allow even larger fleets (then boasts about the size of fleet fights because of their work), it would only make sense that they would put a few man hours of programming into increasing the in-game fleet max to correlate with all the other effort and money they put into the issue."
"the fleet limit as is dos not reduce the number of people turning up to a fight, it just makes things awkward.supported"
"good idea."
"been discussed to death.i said no before, i'm saying no now.your name is who you are in eve online. if you picked a stupid name, that's your own problem. if you don't like the reputation associated with your name, that, also, is your own problem.the only time i would approve character name changes is during the character sale process, and even that's iffy to me."
"i would quite like this implemented.the term i would add though is that the new name has to in some form reflect your curret name.for example my name is fu22 (fuzz), if this came around i would be on it like a shot and change it to something along the lines of fuzzeh or whatever is free near that.(after all my time playing this game i seriously regret having numbers in my name as it is read as f*** you twenty two )"
"this.in a reputation based system, identity is key."
"which would have made sense if people didnt have 10 alts and could sell and buy new chars whenever they feel like doing it. as it stands now there is no reason not to implement it, although of course it should be easy to find someone when searching for his old name, and the other way around."
"i guess we shouldnt allow employment history then? i guess youll have to stay in the same corp forever..same thing isnt it? i mean is it because you cant be bothered to click on a char name history tab? seriously!...your not hiding from anything, the history is there..please think before you post..ta"
"no way, if you mess up your reputation, you have to live with it.and choose your name wisely.in eve actions have consequences, this is not wow."
"well im against this name change system for the main reason has anyone looked at the news lately that goonswarm fell apart due to their one of their leaderships who is claimed to have taken billions of goonswarm assets and your wanting to allow name changes would then give that player who took away all them assets to just change his character name and restart with billions of ill gotten assets ?? ........no i think not if he has indeed taken all them assets away then he should have to face the music of several hundreds of angry players who where part of his alliance there must be accountability of some sort if name change idea gets implemented then i believe lots of players will just give up playing eve altogether as whats the point if actions as bad as these go unpunished just by changing your name ??"
"if implemented properly (with a one-time cost, and a rule like, no more than once per year or per character), i will support this."
"in all honesty, that's why players have alts and religiously protect the identity of their alts. the only situation where changing a character's name would be okay is if it was being traded to another person. as there really wouldn't be a way to prevent people from changing their character's name (trade to a friend/alt, change name, trade back), i don't think this proposal is a good one. even if you allow the old name to link to the new character, characters would end up having a string of name changes, and it really would cease to serve the purpose of protecting the purchasing player from the selling player's actions with the character anyway."
"yes bagehi the use of an alt allows them to transfer their ill gotten gains but doesnt allow them to keep their ill gotten gains on a main with several years of training under its belt if you give them name change abilities not only can they steal vast fortunes but they get brand new identity also this idea has so far proven that those with bad reputations from theft scams etc can now just effectively delete it with a simple name change not a good plan imo"
"allthough i'd like this a lot, to avoid getting primed in fights due to my name i don't think this is a good idea, as some others allready mentioned: you have a reputation and that's a very important thing in eve."
"so then link accounts to each other when they are from same person (sure not always possible, but still as much as possible). and remove ability to buy and sell chars, since otherwise it doesnt make any sense at all.well even if all those things would be removed it wouldnt make any sense, how would it have any effect on your reputation when you can just see your previous names just like corp history? and apparently this isnt wow and everything should have consequences, also the name you decided to take when you started. so why are you allowed to leave a corporation? being in that corporation could have affected your reputation, yet you are allowed to leave it. and you made the decission to join it, why not be stuck in it for the rest of your eve career?"
"as an avid drone user i agree with this post give us a way to work out which drones in bay are damaged and i seen a simple idea post by someone about putting damaged drones to last of the que that idea is good also"
"1.0"
"most drones are destroyed before they can get back to the drone bay. so perhaps the drones could be repaired in the drone bay right away, so when you have docked up drones, they are always full health. might be overpowered though so maybe make it a skill or a module?"
"i agree yes and no.to increase to much the power of the web is not the solution. the problem it's the same race (minmatar) have bonus on the speed tanking and web. if you include the new ammunition. they are some problems. ccp need to nerf something. perhaps to make a new module like \"web +\" with extra range about 20 km but with web strength 30 %.or to add some bonus and each racial interceptor on the range of the web."
"webs are in near perfect balance with the overall ship performance. all we really need is an amplifier to broaden the fitting options .. the 'god-web' is dead and buried, thank goddess.low slot modules, fashioned after same principle as the sig. amp. used by ecm boats.web amplifier: increase web strength.dampener amplifier: increase dampener strength.warp disruption amplifier: increase scramble range.make bonus (t1/t2) 5-7.5%/10-15% with similar fitting requirements as sig. amps.gives ships something to fit other than buffer/speed while allowing for highly specialised setups.nb:tracking disruption does not need more power so intentionally left out. perhaps decrease bas mod stats and add amplifier."
"except on the huggin\rapier this would be complete useless to the ships that actual would need stronger webs.even on the huggin\rapier it would reduce the options for nano or tes to get some useful range. the only thing this will bring are more effective cheap thrown away t1 tackling frigs, for gangs that already have zero issues to throw more than just 1-2 on the target...also lol at 'god-web', most nano fits where still kicking around 400-600m/s after a single web and i have not seen anybody that fitted a tank instead of nano complain about web range back in the days."
"thats what i think"
"yes"
"supported"
"/signed"
"some times it is difficult to compare the same tier ships.raven is pure torpedo shiptempest has mixed slotsapoc has optimal bonus but not damage. anyway lets try. all configs have largest close weapon + 3 damage modes + long t2 ammo + 2 tracking comps for turret ships:max dps rangeraven - 743dps at 45kmapocalypse - 584dps at 80kmtempest - 768dps at 7.8km (6xac800 + 2xsiege with javelin torpedo)megathron - 745dps at 15kmdps at 45km:raven - 743dps at 45kmapocalypse - 584dps at 45kmtempest - 450dps at 45km (javelins fly only 30km)megathron - 200dps at 45kmso... raven won shooting from 45km. but apoc can do the same damage from doubled range (80km). and even without tracking comp apoc can do this from 1.4x range. all other conclusions are the same: \"lasers are overpowered, blasters suck (even with range upgrades it is extremely close weapon with medium damage)\"and you are right about hyperion. it is very difficult to fit 3dm on hyperion with good tank.if you fit lar on hyperion you have no pg for blasters. if you place 1600 plate instead of 1 damage mode you are still suck in passive tank. abaddon 134k ehp vs 110k ehp (1x1600 + 2xadaptiveplates + damage control + 3xtrimark)comparing hyperion and abaddon: abaddon has more dps, more range, more pg. you can fit 8x megapulseii + larii + heavy cap boosterii + abii and you will still have pg if you fit only 8xneutronblasters + larii + abii - you will need 3% pg imp"
"oh boy lolsno"
"no need for such a module, just fix the explo velocities of the missiles those are too low atm."
"wow another thread about missiles for gods sake stop it.missiles are not underpowered except rockets.there are god thing and bad things with missiles and turrets. instead of flaming larkonis because he doesnt agree with you listen to him. larkonis actually knows what he is talking about. i would just be repeating him all day if i came with some points here.the big problem is not missile boats in general. my theory is that it i the users of missile boats. dont get me wrong here im not calling you stupid. i just think a lot of people think missiles can do every job in this game. it all comes down to using the right ship for the job. would you bring a bs to do a interceptors job or the other way around?and before you complain about having to cross train lets have a look at minmatr.if you want to be a good and versatile minmatar pilot you need good or at least above average skills in the following: gunnery, missiles, drones, armour tanking and shield tanking. do we hear a lot of minmatar pilots complain about this no. yes you might have to cross train to have ships to fit every job in pvp. i have had to train for three races, and yes caldari is one of them.so stop the whining about caldari and missiles. most of us had to cross train at some point or another. if you have to cross train to do the things you want its not a great injustice don to you by ccp and no i dont have sympathy for people that wants everything served on a silver plate. if that is the care i suggest you go play wow. eve takes brains and patients to play live with it."
"larkonis knows nothing.so what is the jobs of missile boats, other than being pve ships or being victims of turret ships in pvp?dont come with this stupid oh minmatar has to learn everything , quess what every other race have to too.for my caldari ships i need missiles,gunnery,drones,shield tanking and even armor tanking to be able to participate in rr bs gangs oh and ewar.you are the whiner here not the op or the supporters.\"eve takes brains and patients to play live with it.\" you should get some then.oh and go play wow if you are so familiar with that game."
"not supported until you include a fix to make defenders useful"
"lol did i **** you off there. i must have made you angry,with you getting all personalyou are right missile boats are perfect for pve. in pvp fleet they can be quiet handy as well, as i said before you just have to know how and when to use them. if you or your fc have no clue then you better learn or stop using missile boats. i have had to learn how and when to use them. i wasnt whining about what you have to train to fly minmatar, if you actually read what i wrote.  do we hear a lot of minmatar pilots complain about this no thats not whining. and for the direct personal attacks im not even going to dignify them with an answer.somewhere in all of this i get the impression you would like to challenge me, if that is the case just find me in game and put your money where your mouth is. not that it has anything to do with the subject we are discussing.ps. i found this on warfare & tactics. it explains the use of missile boats i pvp and why they dont suck if you use them correctly."
"petition it. maybe you'll get your isk back."
"so you want to replace current mechanics where one moron gets burned into one where noone uses contracts because every contract can be permanently hung up when one side declares it a scam? you already have a great way to deny a scammer the proceeds."
"the close button needs to be moved towards the right while the accept buttons are on the left.it's likely a fair portion of these purchases are mistakes in clicking buttons which are too close together."
"let me get this straight... you mean to tell me you got scammed on an auction?sounds like you didn't read the fine print... that or i'm not quite understanding what your getting at.clarification?"
"no.don't petition it. you will not get your isk back from a scam, and you'll only be adding to the time required to fix real problems. man up and accept the consequences for your actions."
"yeah, i got rooked, i'll stand up and eat my crow on that score.ccp needs to let me get back at the choad by never completing the escrow, tying up one of my contract slots and one of his until he cancels or recycles, which ends the auction.anything to deny him the profits."
"you want to deny them their profit? enable your brain *before* clicking."
"profitting from others' stupidity is one of the core principles of eve imho.i like the old goon saying... if you have more isk than braincells we'll equalise that. would you sign a contract irl without reading the fine print? inb4 nda reference btw."
"causeing people pain and grief is also one of the core principles of eve iirc.so supporting this on the principal that i will be able to tie up virtually unlimitted numbers of contracts on the contracts market never intending to pay any of them.how many people will i be able to honk off with this new super power.totally supported."
"i guess this is probably aimed at caod forum, but in reality can be used for all forums.i know ccp have all these isds and all these other volunteers, well why dont they create a mod one for the forums.with respect the forums are infested with absolute crap especially caod its terrible.so anyway this isnt about discussing moderators so apologies if it sounds like that, but more about helping them and ccp. im sure alot of people would love to moderate the forums properly, and clean them up.maybe caod can be used as a poc.thanks"
"ah yes, allow me to just moderate the posts of people i don't like*leans back*"
"let me just iterate matey, this isnt going to be another shc where moderation is biased, this is about having trusted mods, if they cant do it right then they get that priviledge removed."
"well, swarm moderation can work. the question would be, do we have enough people active in the forums to support it."
"allow for loyalty points to be traded openly in the markets or via contracts...or you could make the loyalty points available to be sold back to the corporation for isk. many of the items are not cost effective for lp trading with the npc corp."
"supported, this would have some very interesting effects on the market and i would finaly be able to get rid of the remaining 58lp here, 120lp there and so on for corps i no longer work for."
"no. allowing people with atrocious standings standings to a corporation access to its lp store?it would completely invalidate the decisions made by individuals resulting is ****-poor standings to factions/corporations.might as well scrap the entire standings system while you are at it."
"with a system based on your current standings say you have to be 3+ with the corporation to buy lps it could work but it would still devalue faction in theory as disjointed chars who run missions as a duo (read 2 corpies not main and alt) to be able to buy that faction bpc faster and thus make it much easier for the item to be bought (not increasing the amount on the market just how quickly they are available)"
"i don't see a need for this, not supported."
"it would be an interesting touch - but isn't the point of 'loyalty points' that they're restricted to a single character that is, well, loyal?"
"this.the items that are purchased via the loyalty stores can already be sold on the contracts market. i see no reason to change the way lps are currently handled."
"they could put a belt worth of regular high sec ore into those missions. most of the mining missions used to have a load of veld & scord asteroids similar to some of the ore in combat missions. at the worst all you're giving the miner is a semi private belt of low end ore to mine."
"it's hard to believe ccp has found another way to make mining dissatisfying. i know the market is complex and putting rare ores in missions would mess with the prices, but what's wrong with putting larger-than-average rocks in mining missions? it doesn't seem a little weird to them that all the good mission belts are in combat missions? anyway, i think a good idea would be something similar to the ge and ae bonus room in some mining missions, i.e. get a certain tag, get access to a private belt with a couple jaspet or gneiss rocks that require killing some battleships. just a thought."
"they should not requre killing too much though, it's for mining, not for killing."
"is their any reason the isk reward for mining \"the alternate ore/gas\" can't be tied to the median price for the sellable ore/gas?the lp and standings gain would be the extra benefit and a reason to do missions rather than just mining. missions ore should be based on the sec status of the mission location; high-sec ore in high-sec locations, low-sec ore in low-sec locations. keep the risk/reward for mining missions on par with actual mining. now to work on balancing combat missions the same way; easy low-bounty frigates in high-sec, more difficult higher-bounty 'rats in low-sec."
"i'd go for the \"make it fun\" part. remove them only in case this doesn't work."
"this is my first time posting in the forums so here it goes..i don't know if this has been brought up yet so i'm guuna.... i think there should be a ship based around the salvaging profession. this is just something that i thought about and thought it would be a cool idea for pve players. this is just an example of one that i thought up real fast, i don't know how it would work but i guess that's why i'm putting it up in the forums. role bonus:50% bonus to tractor beam range and velocity.skill bonus.5% bonus to salvage chance per level.5% bonus to cargo capacity per level.fittings high 8med 2low 4cargo: 200 m3drone cargo: 25m3speed 200 m/scpu: 160 tfpg: 80 gjskills required to fly these would be something like (just a thought on skills) tier 2salvaging 3electronics 4science 4for the style of the ships, i was thinking that cruiser size for the bigger cargo, the higher cpu and pg and the ability to carry a little bit of drones. just in case something goes wrong. i was also thinking to tie it into the role play factor of the game that the hull design of the ships would be minmatar because of the way the rest of the minmatar ships look. how they look kinda salvaged together. (like how the mining barges are gallente based and the orca is caldari based..."
"imho the profession only needs one ship. it being destroyer class would fit perfectly. perhaps an ore destroyer, hm.supported either way, i'm a salvage monkey at heart."
"i would prefer a science vessel with a bonus to hacking, salvaging and analyzing. like the covops's big cloaky daddy."
"i support the idea, but not the ops implementation. 1 ship, a destroyer class is enough."
"while i don't see any such \"salvager\" profession, it's interesting however. today, a destroyer or some cruisers do the job fairly well, but this is still some kind of abuse to the ship. so why not add a single ship type to the game that is specialised on salvaging, hacking and so on.a huge cargo bay it should have and pretty fast and agile it should be as well which in turn would probably make it it very fragile. that could be fun to fly (still, looting is rarely fun...) :d"
"you don't? where do you mission? i'll stop by.all kidding aside. nice proposal op."
"fair deal? buddy up! ;)mkay, i should have put the emphasis on \"profession\" as well as i should have added \"but i may be blind of course\".i'd support this proposal once the shipyard in it has been shrinked and some more details added..."
"what would caod be without goons, ushra kahn, derek chu, trigrams edge and that guy with the green font, just some boring forum imo.i say remove all restrictions and only lock / ban isk sellers only!!"
"lol you know they could just actually moderate it better..now theres a thought i think ill propose it"
"not supported."
"caod = c&p. only difference is one applies mostly to individuals while the other is more on a corporate/alliance level. but they're both riddled with the same penus-waving and attention-seeking kiddies.if we're going to get rid of caod let's not do a half-assed job. get rid of both caod and c&p."
"absolutely not supported.as already stated, no one is being forced to read its posts. to me, it's often enough plain fun to read :d"
"i can't speak for null sec but as for the low sec i have to disagree. there is allot of running with blobs - shipping up and down, ganking at gates, and stations games. but fights even approaching something closely matched like we see in the alliance tournaments are extremely rare. those fights are what we are often looking for, but they are extremely elusive. if you like running with blobs and gate camping this won't prevent you from doing that. the proposal can only win, because it simply gives players another option. instead of getting 1 good gang fight for every 10 hours of play time and arena would provide 10 good gang fights in one hour. arenas will be good for that. of course there is a certain adreniline rush that you get from roaming in low or null sec without knowing what will jump in. this wont exist in an arena. however the proposal is not to make all of eve an arena. so you will still have low sec and null sec pvp as it is.if you don't want an arena you wouldn't have to go in one."
"very much not supported.."
"no fight is ever fair, that's why one side loses and the other side wins. if it was fair, both sides would kill each other.this is also incorrect. the more fair a fight is, the more of a rush it would be (as you would have a greater chance of dying). unfortunately, i think the idea of a built-in arena will side-track players from the game as a whole.i will point out that arena events have been conducted before with success. i, personally, ran some of these back when i lived in low sec - 1v1 frigate fights and 3v3 cruiser fights (the local pirates and anti-pirates worked together for these - to defend and participate in them). the problem is that it is hard to spread the word about such events. if there was a better way for players to advertise events, more events would occur and you wouldn't need a built-in arena as players would know about existing \"player-made\" arenas and when and where they were happening."
"in eve you can go everywhere and kill anyone, please don't ruin this by making instances.war tried the same with battlegrounds instead of true rvr, you know what happened? after half the players left, mythic nerfed battlegrounds and boosted world rvr and people loved it. still they never recovered from the damage it had done.so no, don't mess up eve with arena's or battlegrounds.wow is that way -->"
"it seems you don't mind the idea of tournaments. you just want players to be forced to take the time to advertise where they are and set them up etc. i would rather a faction do that (ie., ccp.) i would say it may be something that a pirate faction should do.(if ccp ever really develops them) thus it could be done in low or null sec. this proposal is for \"high sec.\" so i guess i would disagree slightly and say it might be better in null sec or low sec. perhaps a sov mechanic could be used to put an arena in a system. or just put it in low sec. or maybe all three. when you say \"unfortunately, i think the idea of a built-in arena will side-track players from the game as a whole.\" i wonder what you mean. this game is a sand box there is no \"game as a whole\" that you should be pursuing. you can for the most part only play one part of the game at a time. so you may run missions or join fw and do plexes or pvp etc etc etc. the idea that there is some sort of game as a whole that we shouldn't get sidetracked from is foriegn to the idea of a sandbox. why not make it a bigger sand box. i think you may be thinking if they have an arena allot of people will have fun doing that, and those people should be playing eve the way i want to play eve. this is bad thinking and bad for the game. the notion that if there are few things that are fun to do in eve = less competition for the things i want to do, doesn't really work when your talking about leisure time. its not like people *must* play eve. for me i am not interested in walking in stations. but its not going to detract from what i do in eve- so there is no downside. i can still fly ships. the same is true with the idea of an arena or arenas. there is no downside."
"i agree the arena should definitely be in the same universe world and on the same server. other pilots in the same system at the actual arena location could interfere but there should be concord or something like that. maybe sentry guns. i don't know. maybe concord in high sec arenas and sentry guns in low sec, and whatever the sovern holders want in null sec. the null sec sovern holders could make it even stricter than high sec concord if they wanted.i think there should be televisions in the stations so people could view the arenas from around the universe. they should be able to see the ships shields/armor and hull damage etc. perhaps when they have walking in stations you could go to a bar and see whats happening in the arenas. the bets could be listed and you could place bets. you could tune into different television channels and watch the various fights in different arenas. you would be watching real time fights that are going on in the eve universe."
"did you flip a coin, or do you see a disadvantage to having arenas?"
"there is no reason, in a sandbox game, for the game to run arenas when players are running them already. this is the point.and again, the game as a whole is a sandbox. the more the game does for players, the less of a sandbox it is.what you suggest is not making it a bigger sandbox, it is replacing some of the kids playing in the sandbox with robots. yes there is. you take the fun of coordinating events away from players and into the hands of some game mechanic simply to cater to people who would rather click a button in a station than participate in player driven events. this would take away from the eve community."
"bagehii agree different corps sometimes do this but it is haphazard at best. to say we already have this is really a stretch. if you want to do it right ccp should step up and do it right, or at least give us some tools to set it up right. including ways to set up different types of point systems like they use for the alliance tournament. ui ability so certain ships can be included or excluded from a side etc. set places on the map where the arenas are so people know what systems they in are. the map should also indicate what sorts of events they have there. advertisements for how to sign up for events etc. there is no effective way to set up sentry guns to police this etc. none of this exists in the game now. if we had the tools to set up decent arena events we would have them. players don't want to go through the logistical headaches of organizing this stuff. nor should they have too at least not unless ccp gives them some tools to set it up. you claim a disadvantage of this is it would take away the fun people have of coodinating these events. well first it wouldn't do that. if they still want to get pilots together and say \"lets meet at planet five in system x for our turnament and just hope our enemies don't show up and gank us\" they can still do this after the proposal. but those sorts of tournaments have pretty big limitations. the reason no one would do that anymore is because that way sucks compared to what it could be if ccp gave us tools to do a decent arena style tournament. secondly the players who want to coordinate events in an arena still could. it wouldn't have to be ccp run. some could be run by npcs some could be player run in null sec."
"an option to right click on another player and challenge them to the death would be fine, as long as it also came with an option to block the requests from people not on your address book (jita would be even more hellish than it is now if you couldn't block such a request). another potential exploit would be to spam a person/corp/alliance with such requests to slow down their client or a node.contracts would also be good, but there again, need them to be blockable based on address book or standings or something. i'd support this as long as you can't make open ended contracts for anyone willing to fight, and this should not spawn an arena/deadspace or some other such thing."
"i have had an idea for eve ambulation to make the game more player active. my idea is an evolution of the current bounty system.at the moment bounties are collected by simply podding the pilot in low security systems which results in a security status loss. my idea would eliminate this status loss and is to have a police station in one station in every system in high sec space. these stations would be distinguished by having a blue tag. pilots with bounties on their heads would be captured in low and high sec and transported in the players cargo hold or even bring out some sort of mechanism where you can lock on to and drag their ship to said police station where the pirate would face trial and prosecution as would be in real life.they would then recieve a sentence based on the severity of their crimes. they will be locked in the station for an appropriate length of time based on their sentence and crimes and during this lockdown period would not be able to do anything other than deal with their character sheet. they could however pay a fine based on the courts decision to be let free on the same basis as being caught smuggling illegal goods.when ambulation comes out; to stop pirates from being safe by docking in a station you would have the ability to dock in the same station and capture them by going to there ship or walking around the same station and outting handcuffs on them then transporting them to the police station and collect the bounty"
"at the moment, changing your orbit radius or keep at range distance is a slow and painful process, requiring selection of a submenu, then typing in the desired value. changing the d-scanner range is only slightly less painful: here, you have to remember the au -> km conversion factor and then type in the appropriate 9 or 10-digit number. this is unneccesarily tedious and inconvenient, particularly when heading into a pvp encounter.proposed solution: add drop-down range selectors next to the 'orbit' and 'keep at range' buttons and the d-scan range selector. these selectors should have three or more values that can be specified by the player. in the case of the d-scan, the player should have the option of specifying the range in km or in au.advantages: eve's ui becomes a little less painful to use, and it becomes easier to adjust your combat tactics/scan range on the flypotential drawbacks: aside from the extra work for ccp, none afaict"
"i bamp heem, i support heem. you too should consider supporting this excellent proposal."
"you might want to read this article:"
"wear it like its hot!"
"i thought the medal was given to him for getting elected, not for serving a full term. he was elected so if that is what you get a medal for, he should keep it. i mean should we also erase all his kills from the killboards? if he worked out a deal where ccp said they would take certain action against him in exchange for his stepping down ccp should honor the agreement they made and not (after he does his part of the agreement) start taking his stuff. again just my two cents."
"agreeing with this."
"no, just stems from the market understanding of an infantitt: internet premaddona asks friend(so he doenst look like a premaddona) to post a whine about his pixels/medal he lost for trying to cheat the system. lurks thread until a couple posts later then supports thread, throws a tantrum when people dont agree."
"you dont know too much about tantrums, now do you...and"
"still bitter about being muted bro?itt ah regulars continue to show just how easily trolled they are.i don't quite see where i threw a tantrum btw."
"hahaha. no."
"nah, thought i would get that response of something to that effect, but trolling from an alt would be tardedthe fact that you so obviously asked one of your buddies to start this thread rather than starting it yourself is funny enough. its even more hilarious that its about some irrelevant ingame crown that you lost for breaking the ndai voted for you with my two accounts for the csm, i liked what you stood for. i even gave you the benefit of the doubt when the scandal broke and you got kicked off. but the fact that you chose to attempt to run again so early looked arrogant, making this thread either doesnt help, and leads one to conclude that you are resting on your laurels righter than taking your licks, being humble about it, and waiting at least one interim term to run againnot supported"
"this is ment more for low/null sec than high sec. and yeah i just found wear the concord ships were listed. and they would need a boost to be inline with current faction ships."
"supporting because.. yeah.i empathize with your situation with the gm's. the customer support in eve seems to be on the wrong side of terrible. unfortunately i doubt this thread will change the situation with the grid loading bug.i had a very long back and forth with several gm's in which they told me my pod had received the command to warp and then got scrambled 2 seconds later according to the server logs. it takes my pod a little over .06 seconds to enter warp from a stand still according to the approved evelopedia article (was spamming warp while loosing my ship in low sec to save my pod). eventually i just gave up because they just repeat the same crap over and over without even reading your replies."
"with some tweaks i vote yes, i would like to see the total per 3 mins equal to one mining harvester so somewhere in the 1200 range."
"i think people with higher sec status should be rewarded in some way for their effors.seeing as a war dec is basically a bribe to concord, it would be seinsible to make this \"bribe\" more expensive if a corperation has a higher security status.so wardec fees should be...[corp sec status x 1 million isk] + 2million isk. a corperations sec status is made up from an average of their players. (similar to faction standings.)the current mechanics are not broken in regard to war decs and i think that they should remain the same, it should just cost more to dec a corp that has high sec status to reward people for having higher sec status.mograph"
"yeah, i can support that, it sounds nice."
"getting shot in eve-online always allows you to defend yourself, even if the attacker has killrights. if you have killrights on someone and start shooting your target, he can always shoot back right at you."
"...no"
"we have many rigs for drone range, durability, speed and etc. we have rigs for sentry drone optimal and damage. why there are not rigs for damage of usual flying drones? all turret and missile ships have opportunity to increase damage using weapon rigs.example:drone damage augmentor - this ship modification is designed to increase a ship's drone damage at the expense of the ship's cpu capacity.damage multiplier bonus 10%drawback -10%calibration cost 200"
"a few quick proposals i've recently supported and thus should raise this time tower under attack mails to pos gunners (csm) thread | wikiincrease forum signature file size limitations (csm) thread | wikireconnect to lost drones (csm) thread | wikiif one of the industrial focussed csm reps can take a look at jenny wimbishi's proposals that would be good..."
"as i'm digging my way through the csm pages at evelopedia (which tends to be a tough job), looking for ideas of mine that already were possibly proposed already and dealt with by ccp, i wonder why there are so many pages in the \"issues in process\" category.evelopedia csm main page description:since there are quite some proposals that were discussed with ccp already during the 3rd csm but still present in the \"issues in process\" category, i wonder who'd be responsible of moving the pages to their appropriate category (revisit, rejected or resolved).unfortunately, i was unable to find a description of the way these pages are being dealt with, so i'd assume the csm being responsible of it. some pages history entries seem to allow this assumptions, while others know a csm representative only as the creator of the page while all subsequently following activities were done by isd members.i find this situation especially unlucky as a) the assembly hall rules ask us to avoid thread necromancy by checking for possible past proposals but b) virtually everyone complaining of the csm wiki pages being a pain to browse. this simply doesn't match.as i well might get it all wrong, i'd be glad to see anyone explaining me how these pages are meant to be dealt with."
"indeed"
"you realise that the hyperion also outdamages the tempest and maelstrom?"
"both of which have 4x the alpha more or less, funny how you didn't mention that."
"to the top once more, with a faithful delusion of attention worthiness.id use these shortcuts all the time, minus the fancy big words mashups."
"support"
"supported. would prefer customisable drop-down selectors for orbit radius/keep at range, but any improvement is good."
"supported"
"you are trying to base the bonuses around the way you think the ship should be flown -- what you are terming \"optimal combat tactics\". the problem is that in reality, combat tactics should be based around the capability (bonuses) of the ship. you're doing it the wrong way round.if i say now that my optimal combat tactics for a caracal are to load up with pooploads of scourge heavy missiles and go around shooting people, how are you going to tell me that your combat tactics are any better than mine?a ferox can fit heavy missile launchers and carry scads of various types of missiles, but optimal combat tactics for that ship don't involve heavy missile launchers."
"calm down.we are just working out your rules for cmb combat.you do not have to have a scout if you do not want one.you said you wanted a scout!my brutix fit does not need one because it has mwd/cloak.you can have mwd/cloak and not have a scout too if you dont want a scout.you decide.i am not placing any restrction on you.do you want a scout / tackler or not ?i am happy if you want to show me a fully solo fit.i am happy if you want to show me a solo fit with scout [dual box]i am happy if you want to show me a small gang fit ( not solo capable )"
"dude, you have logical fallacies.your brutix stats are interesting.all level 5 skills...first, how do you manage to get that slow ass thing into range of anything?fitting damage rigs and electrons so as to get the most dps, you get 779 dps at a whopping effective range of about 4 km. any ship that wants to stay out of your range will. you can get out to about 7 km with null and still have 653 dps, but that's not really using the ship's bonus. using lower damage ammo on a damage bonused ship isn't really optimal now is it? but regardless of that fact, anything that wants to stay out of your range will. not to mention with that fit you will tank a staggering 170 dps. frigates can break your tank. not so great of a bonus now is it?fit for tank so that your ship will not get into range to apply dps, but will have a stronger tank, using one of it's bonuses to it's fullest while putting one in the backseat yields this result: 404 dps tanked (better, but stilll very very weak for a solo ship in my opinion) going 160 m/s (982 with mwd), and 530 dps. at around 3 km. (454 dps at aroung 6 km) you will likely never get into optimal range as you are way too slow.so this brutix using the tactics (with 7 guns, not counting in the cloak, which would lower dps and cause many many ships to run since your lock time is ****) is not so great as you think.your stats make it seem like this ship is pretty good, and it's so easy to get into range.reality check, getting a brutix into range is not easy. brutixes are extremely easy to kite.using the armor bonus is not compatable with using the tactic of getting into range as armor rigs slow you down. yes plate slows you down as well, but that's a compromise pilots make. however, from your argument, you seem unwilling to make that compromise.edit: i guess what i'm saying is that the brutix ignores a ****ty bonus and is still considered a good ship. so caracal can too.oh and the \"tactics\" you posted are false, skeletal, and don't usually work."
"we are not trying to work out my rules. you already laid your rules in the op. i'm just adhering to them. (pick the fitting, pick the tactics, pick the fight)i don't care about having scout or not. if there is no scout, your argument is false simply because you won't be able to evade every unfavorable situation. no, mwd/cloak does not save you from everything. i already gave you the example, which you gracefully decided to ignore: drag bubbles, or any bubble camp in matter of fact. but i guess you've never been in 0.0 or something. therefor your argument is wrong, that your fit is optimal in every fight.(edit)in case you'll go \"blah blah blah only low-sec blah no bubbles blah\" how do you know, without scout, the target is not a bait and there is no hostile gang in next system? again, you're fit will not be optimal.if there is a scout, i can pick any target i want. i'll make sure those fights adhere your rules. therefor proving my argument i can use my tactics (with kinetic missiles) in every fight.i already give you lots of leeway trying to make me close range/solo fit, which is in most cases gallente speciality. i'm not even trying to make you a optimal fit for (e.g.) rr gang."
"keep the lowsec love coming in..."
"1. what criteria would be used to tell who dominates a system? how would you also make it lucrative enough to encourage dominating, but not enough to get the 0.0 people coming in?2. so pirates can be probed out and ganked in lowsec too?3. problem is you need to agree to have a neutral trade hub in lowsec so a market can exist. this being lowsec, good luck.4. you want to nerf pirate ships?5. i support this.6. what is the point? more rats but ones you can bribe?7. you'd get bottlenecks camped to hell and an end to cross region trade.needs more work."
"yep, it needs more work, alot more work, thats why we want ideas and feedback.1, occupancy could be a factor, sheer numbers, but yeah its hard to figure how it would work out..2: pirates probe each other out and gank each other all he time. most combat in lowsec is actually outlaw verses outlaw anyway.3: doesnt have to be a neutral trade hub, teh market exists everywhere in hisec, the black market wouldexist everywhere in lowsec, hubs would eventually evolve and probably be by some bad ass big alliance who may 'keep it neutral'?4: just an idea... not very popular, but better than no ideas here6: as above. just ideas to get an immersive feel...7: yeah this ine, while realistic is not popular...if theres something youd like to see in lowsec (and no not safety to make isk) get an idea up here."
"not really realistic.we have a cold war (the low sec areas where fw fight are equivalent of the bush wars in nations like viet-nam, afghanistan or the other 3rd world countries where wars were fought by proxy during the cold war).high sec to high sec gates are the equivalent of moving from west germany to est germany or from italy to yugoslav. passages full of frontiers guards and were breaking the law will get a ton of bricks on your head. currently we don't have a direct war between the empires."
"pirates do missions in low sec as it is...now they would be able to do missions for...pirates...it'd be much coolerwhat? are you implying ccp dictates where trade hubs are?trade hubs definitely naturally. black market hubs would develop in populated areas/high transit areas/etc.as for neutral...i assume you mean \"safe.\" anyone can dock anywhere in low sec. anyone can also undock and not get ganked if they have more than half a brain (hint: instawarp undock).interregional trade would have appropriate risk...also, ideally there would be a dozen or more \"chokepoints\"...oh and boost to regional markets, hurray!i think the idea is to generate ideas and support."
"supported x3435398394583045 if i could"
"sup-sup-sup-supported dj style"
"supported!"
"absolutely unacceptable sound for a game that looks this nice, and has this many subscribers. crackly sound with invulnerability fields, missile launchers missing sounds/playing them at the wrong time...it just needs to be fixed. i can't really get my wife into the game if i explain the sound problems as \"well, that's uh...that's just how it is.\""
"only a fool wouldn't support this discussion."
"supported. but if ccp hasn't fixed it by now, i doubt they ever will. my guess is that whoever programmed their sound engine doesn't work there anymore, and they have absolutely no idea how it works. hence, they cant fix it."
"and whoever designed it didn't seem to have any idea how it worked either."
"supported!"
"supported. please step it up and get this game's sound above low-budget independent game development standards at the very least."
"absolutely supported!"
"supported!"
"1.0"
"supported."
"supported!"
"i have encountered these issues.. how hard is it to fix sound?"
"we need really good sound effects ccp! fix it"
"interesting enough, sound issues seem to have some kind of tradition in eve:csm 3 - ccp meeting minutes <U+FFFD> 6.3.1 \"sound engine woes\"i'd suggest to ask csm to have sound issues given a higher priority towards ccp, reflecting their repeated ocurrence."
"supported"
"supported.even bringing back the pre-apoc sound engine until the new one gets fixed would be an improvement."
"wanted to see this for a long time. supported."
"back to the top, please support"
"good idea. hopefully there will be more to support this proposal"
"good idea."
"not supported.just fyi: if you've ever been petitioned in/around rens for foul language in local chat, you're welcome.....and thank you. i enjoy pressing the petition button and reporting you."
"my favourite topic of all time children swear a lot, adults much less .. what changes? answer: society.children live a protected existence, sequestered from the \"real\" world with very little obligations, commitments or accountability. children swearing ultimately comes down to poor parenting. with no limitations or rules they invariably turn into obnoxious punks. when adulthood hits, they are a lot worse off than those who were eased into the rules governing society as a whole.eve is ccp baby, and as any responsible parent they have chosen to set down some ground-rules which just happen to include treating each other with a modicum of respect and decency.if you are unable to communicate using a proper tone, then think of eve as school. you'll thank ccp when you find out that the job interviews, loan-applications and so forth go a lot smoother."
"i did not even know this exists.. this is stupid."
"i would say that there is a significant difference between, say, getting wtfpwned in eve, and being slightly annoyed, and then going to a job interview.most people don't swear for every 3. word when they are \"chilled\".so if you hit your finger with a hammer, you say \"gosh, mylord, my thummy sure hurts now.\"?manners should be subject to the area, and people you are working with, and not regulated by some outside source. i thought independence from the devs was what eve was all about?"
"to the people who are supporting this topic:stfu.seriously....there is a reason i enforce a no smack talk rule in my corporation.. its because peoples big mouths tend to get the better of them.the solution is to really stfu.so don't say anything at all.(mild attempt at humor)not supporting."
"there is a huge difference between the real-life death threats and derogatory language i see in local on a daily basis and an outburst.either way, what is said/muttered privately and what is typed in public are not even the same ball-park. i sincerely doubt anyone will petition a \"dammit!\" outburst or that a gm will do anything other than smirk.i think it is safe to say that the eve player base has failed miserably at policing itself. even with dev/gm interference most threads sounds like something my 7 year old nephew says when he doesn't get his way.watch some interviews of jane/john doe on the news, while language should be subject to area it most often is not .. once a person gets used to speaking/thinking/acting in a certain way they will fall back on it when they meet resistance, few people have the willpower to fight this natural response.ps: if you are able to remain \"chilled\" at a job interview you either don't really want the job or you are on drugs .. interviews and exams are the most stressful situations modern man faces. there exists an entire industry whose sole purpose is helping people cope with them."
"i personally report any foul or abusive language i see in public chat channels. and i'm a big fan of ccp's decision to keep in-game language moderate. if i see over use of such language in private chat channels i will ask the offending person to tone it down or, if i'm a guest, i'll just close the channel.use of vulgar / obscene language creates an environment that alot of people don't want to be in. considering that there's absolutely no reason whatsoever to use that sort of language makes it a no brainer that it should be against the rules. if vulgar / obscene language were allowed then instances of abuse and harrassment would become more common. you could argue that one doesn't necessarily lead to another but even my 7 year old has enough common sense to see the correlation."
"people in this game need to grow the **** up.you're reporting someone for swearing? really? the response from ccp should be \"what are you, some ****ing ***** or something? get a spine\""
"yes, i have reported people for swearing. it's against the rules. see how that works?"
"import a swear filter ingame that you can switch on and off at your choosing.those who don't care about swearing can see it and the delicate flowers can get them filtered, problem solved. edit for more on topic-ness: and by importing this if you have it switched off and try and abuse the use of gms they can simply come along and say \"well you have the filter turned off so you obviously aren't bothered by swearing\" and those with it turned on can't even see the swear words."
"can't support this.ccp shall expressively encourage people unable to deal with their emotions in an appropriate way?no."
"in that case, i don't think it can be re-raised."
"take your own advice, corp history is different with keeping tabs on a player character since the characters name does not change and has nothing to do with the issue being discussed here.checking a player's name tab is an extra step where there was none before, if we have standing/data on a player by name it now has to be researched-yes show info-aliases in order to identify the player because you want to hide.not supported."
"supported, know so many people who hate their names and don't want to remake cause it will take a massive amount of time."
"if done properly, like remaps this would be good.people whining about keeping track of people etc, honestly the employment history still exists.this would just be a sanctioned method of removing a 13 year old child's attempt at leet speak when you buy a character.or if you were drunk during character creation."
"thumbs up, asked for since ages."
"while i doubt ccp would allow this due to the mechanics of the game, i would personally like to do this, even if it could only be done once per character. i have a few names that i wish were something else, so it would be nice to do.supported, but i don't think it's gonna happen."
"lolwut?a name gives instant recognizability. allowing name changes weakens the identifying property of names, even with the traceability given by a history.this is a forced comparison, there are some big differences between a corp and a char. for instance, you can define every property of you char during creation, while the persons playing chars in a corp are out of your control. if you don't fit in, its natural that you go somewhere else. not to mention that typically a char is a more long lasting instance than the bond between players represented by a corp. and like you said, in eve everything has a consequence. the act of joining/leaving corps is noted permanently in your history.every system i saw where users were allowed to change their user/char names was abused and brought annoyances with it."
"only supported if there is a name history like the corp history and that it is viewable by every player ingame."
"how does adding options become a reduction? current dual-web is about equal to old single-web, by increasing strength using low-slots (or rigs for that matter) you open the door to much more varied fittings.the problem rapier/hugginn pilots is struggling with is of their own making. they insist on having buffer, damage, range, tracking, stopping power etc. all at once and scream when they realise they have to forego one or two.frigates (and cruisers to some extent) have sod all low-slots to spare. it will always be much better to use twin-webs and tank/speed the lows. screw nano's, webs were never a counter to them, at least not on their own (needed neuts, drones et al. on top).i was referring to the effect of 90% speed reduction allowing ships to kill anything they wanted of smaller size. can still do so but it actually requires skill and presence to do as you wiggle around to minimize transversal and what not."
"amarr can reduce incoming damage by tds and neut down ships that need cap to attack/tank.falcon can shut down 100% of the damage a ship can do.arazu/lach can prevent getting locked at range(yes it is poor atm since damps are crapy).hugginn/rapier can't do this, they have to relay on range and speed plus some buffer to \"tank\".it does fail pretty quickly against ranged dps like missiles, lasers and aks in most of the cases already. there is not a reason to diminishing this any more.this is the reason why i stated it would be useless, at least for small gang/solo where the better web would be required.it was good, true, but you had to commit to a fight, if you chose fighting in web range. if you engaged at this range you had to accept that the fight will end there in one or the other way. the ability to avoid this was in my opinion the most powerful ability the nano fits offered and made them this popular.it was actually around one ship size down(no, you didn't hit frigs in close orbit with bs turrets), plus the unnerfed drones and pre nerf nos. you got 2 options, neuts and drones to work with at point blank atm, minimize transversal or chose range is a odd statement since a mwd ship without mwd moves nowhere and you have not the option to control range/transversal. if you kill somebody with turrets only he screwed up or you managed to kill him at range.in general i only miss the powerful web only on a few ships so giving a role bonus to them for it would be fine to me. something like 37.5%(60% webs turning into 75% webs) + a proper tracking boost would fix most of the damage qr did to blaster pvp.hugginn/rapier also need something like this, to add a proper force to her niche role(plus something that helps tps or make them more useful as ew)."
"djego sorry but most of the problems of the huggin/rapier apply to other races too:amarr - missiles/drones can still drive them off even when the turrets dont hit anymore.falcons - fofs/dronesand of course the same works also against gallente recons.so it isnt just a problem for matari recons."
"this. not supported."
"i agree, but i will still support. this is out of question. we are not sacrificing ui to make someone's life harder."
"supported for the sake of fun.thinking of players talking to their computers *is* fun (watching drivers chatting with their cars is fun in rl too) :dand if it ends up in an improved keybinding of the eve client, i'm with it even more."
"having just been ganked a few minutes ago in low sec by a smart bomb, i disagree with the motion. eve is all about adapting.to quote an earlier poster, this:.are there people in local?../..................\no...................yes.|....................|proceed...........do you see to warp.........battleships on scan...................at the gate?.............../..................\.............no...................yes.............|.....................|...........proceed...............do you have ...........to warp..............a combat ship?.............................../..............\..............................no..............yes..............................|................|...........................dock up...........htfu ..........................and get one"
"mining missions need a major overhaul.1. miscellaneous ore should be available \"floating\" in space with the target ore for the mission.2. regular rats should be in use instead of mission only enemy drones3. lps should be adjusted. i get over 8000+ lps for mining gas in 35 minutes as opposed to 5000+ lps for 1.5 hours of ore...guess which missions i cherry pick?...yes, mining missions need help!!!"
"missions in general bore me, i can only imagine how much worse mining ones are."
"im tired of going thru editing the filter to get the list below 100.000.000 items ;). i know the name of what i want."
"i remember one of my first large(ish) fleet battles i was flying a rifter as a new pilot and much to my surprise i actually survived the encounter. my poor rifter had sustained heavy damage, straight down to my hull. i found myself flying that ship around with a small portion of hull damage unrepaired in future fleets. it was like a battle scar from the previous event. why not have something that rewards the experience of a ship and its crew after having survived many battles together? something that separates it from a ship straight off the assembly line?i'd propose a new mechanic in which modules such as weapons systems, repair systems and others would gain a small bonus over time from being active. similar to rigs, any bonuses would be lost if the module was removed, or the ship was repackaged.of course it is possible for a ship to orbit a station for a week with its repair modules running, or shooting at an asteroid for countless hours to gain these bonuses. i don't see this as an exploit however.the point of the bonus is to reward time in your ship, fitted just the way you like. if you choose to spend weeks in \"training\" before taking the ship to battle, that is the pilots choice. either way, the ships destruction, and loss of the bonuses will be just that much more painful."
"no xp grind in eve. kthxbye."
"not supported.if you take away caod, the goons will post their \"hey, look at us! we need everyone to see us doing something to be the center of attention!\" threads all over the forums."
"caod is the worst forum on the eve-o boards and the only one worth reading."
"will bring to this weekend's meetingz0d"
"i like this post in particular because it brings up a good point for all of you hard-core evers who are all about keeping this game so pure and perfect like real life \"eve shouldn't lower itself because blah blah wow blah blah eve is about what it would really be like and it isn't fair...\" i agree it should keep its' realistic tone, but what i wantt all you haters to consider is that it can be both things. wake up call - it is still a game. some of us (well alot of us play to just play sometimes. we are casual players, rather we ty to play casually. the one thing that bugs me about eve is how you pretty much have to be in it for a long time to get into pvp and survive and have fun. the old joke in eve is you get sucked in and can't get out - that's not only because eve is immersive but because it takes immersion to be any good at certain areas and people like to be good at stuff but its a game and some of us don't have time. can't there just be an option like duels (which is a great idea as mentioned) that makes eve a little more like a game and not emo real life vampire that causes chcauss people to lose hours of their day mining to afford a ship.i realize this would hurt the realism of the economy so that i am against to an extent - but there are always to do both! that is what eve is about - possibilities. : ) just a little bit not alot. and if i offended anyone over-dramatizing my point i apologize. but basically it would be nice to have a more casual yet fun (pvp being the best fun in game) mode. if that take a whole nother \"care bear\" server then fine or where you can only designate one time ship for duels per month or you have to pay a fee to duel or something, fine. either way this post has merrit and i support it. where there is a will there is a way is my point. this one is worth looking into and i encourage all future posters to consider what others want and offer suggestions on how to make this work instead of it won't. yes it won't right now but i bet if ccp gets good ideas from us they will find a way."
"well said! could not agree more"
"join red vs blue.problem solved"
"please fix the \"account name\" in the character transfer tool.this is for those of you the players who eventually or have in the past bought a character from another player through the ccp character transfer tool.the ccp tool in the account management area requires the seller to enter the buyer's username referred as \"account name\". this is a big no-no since accounts are getting hacked left and right already.i suggest ccp make available a secondary unique id/name that does not involve the user's username. perhaps even use the already existing limited api id? either way, in the eula, it is stated not to give out our login information. so perhaps make it consistent with the character transfer tool.thank you for reading and commenting."
"making the sov structures player-made may help the mineral market recover a bit too...but the market is so saturated with minerals at the moment that it probably won't even dent it anyway."
"the only csm members that did it during the 3rd csm were the ones who took the initiative to do it. i saw a lot of entries of \"erik finnegan\" fixing my evelopedia entries before we sorted out a real template. :di think that page is for the csm issues that have been approved by the csm before taken to ccp. at least, that is my explanation for the variety of issues that are there, since there don't seem to be any that have died in committee, and there are some there that ccp have said no to. hur dur wikipedia is hard, i am probably just misunderstanding what the page is supposed to be for, but that's what the page is right now.the reason for there not being any csm 2 or 1 issues, is because they did not use the evelopedia at all.isd is supposed to take care of the nuts and bolts of wiki-ing though. between them and the csm, both being made up of volunteers... hmm well good luck.it is very late at night... i hope my post vaguely addressed at least one of your points."
"yes, noticed is as well. loads of name changes involved (this \"(csm)\" at the end of the pages) leading to the quite annyoing effect of older csm-ccp minutes links pointing to blank pages now, causing confusion.that's the way i understand the official description (quoted in op).there are lots of proposals in \"issues in progress\" that had been brought to ccp as well as there are some that i'd expect in \"rejected\", \"revisit\" or in the backlog. all taken from the public csm-ccp minutes.guessed so already, and it will probably a real pita to dig for the old threads to create appropriate pages in evelopedia, so i can understand it ;)oh yes, it did! thanks a lot :) at least it shows that i'm not the only one confused about these pages intention ;)hmm. think, i'll give it a try then and do it on my own initiative. evelopedia is moderated anyway, so it shouldn't have any other effect than a heavily swearing isd member rejecting my changes if i should (unwillingly of course) break things. ;)(edit) i learned of the \"discussion\" feature of evelopedia today and that it's supposed to be used for inquiries regarding protected pages (which i guess the csm pages are). curious about the replies i am, now ;o)"
"wow was gonna see if i could necro this topic but it seems i dont have to. still waiting on this to happen.by the way devs, its been a year! nearly."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"absolutely"
"i think it was already mentioned. caldari are kinetic, just the way the game is made. if gallante and amarr didn't get damage bonus' to their guns then any ship with a eanm or even 2 of those could out tank our dps pretty well. most ships have a good range of kinetic and therm and em damage resistance in armor, and its the kinetic, therm, and explosive for shields. so in case of gallente your basically shield and armor tanked. if your whining about drones then don't. drones are not exclusive to gallente since every race and their mother can use drones. if you ever bothered to look at the different ships the only difference between gallente and other races for drones is that the dominix is one of the few ships that can hold more then 5 heavies. thats only hold doesn't mean we can use them.another case in point....missiles dont miss. there you go. you want to nerf gun damage. fine i'll drop the damage bonus for a rate of fire.....if my guns didnt ever miss. if your in range the missiles will hit everytime. even if your in range guns still miss. so how do we balance that out?? oh yeah the damage bonus.i know where your coming from but unless you want missiles to have to same tracking disadvantages like guns then stick with what you have. i would have no problem with yall gettng a damage bonus if missiles missed as much as guns did."
"i disagree with this - blasters are rarely more effective damage dealers than missiles. as a deimos pilot, i can tell you that a caldari pilot in a cerberus will almost always beat me unless i find a way to close the range gap that he can easily exploit. every race has upsides and downsides - the gallente one is drones (not rails/blasters), which other races can use anyway though to a lesser extent. the caldari one is ammo that does 100% of one dtype and on average better range capabilities than comparable dps weaponry."
"i like the idea of a towing array. especially if they come in different sizes so as to meet the needs of lower-skilled people who'd like to change mission agents but who don't want to spend their playing time for several days piloting each, individual ship 20 jumps then podding back. ccp wants people to spread out rather than concentrate around mission hubs and market hubs. why not make moving our stuff easier?"
"yes, except for #4, as well one way to get pirate items is by killing pirates. plus if empires were like that you would get attacked for flying a domi in caldari space."
"supporting general idea of rework of low-sec.some of the ideas mentioned need a great deal more thought and should only be implemented with a high confidence it would actually get the result desired.fragmenting high sec is actually the best idea of the bunch. yes, it would apply pressure to high sec citizens which is what they need to start solving their own problems. it would have several side benefits too, not the least is breaking the jita strangle hold on the market.perpetual gate camp at high/low border gate? why don't high sec dwellers organize and smash the camp in the teeth more? because it's easier to whine or go somewhere else than to organize. high-sec pockets would create more incentive for interdependence and cooperation among high sec denizens.i only hope that ccp carefully weighes any low-sec \"boost\" carefully against 0.0 so that it doesn't become just as attractive, or nearly so, for large alliances to get territorial in low-sec. would ruin the flavor of low-sec. i'm in low-sec for solo and small gang fights. fw has brought enough blobbery to low-sec.on the whole, as a low-sec resident since my second day playing, low-sec is fine in my estimation. not really sure it needs anything but willing to see ccp explore tweaks that won't break it.ps - i very rarely have ever camped a gate and never used smart bombs. some of you whiners need to buy a freaking clue about what life is really like in low-sec."
"except that you have to actually make that instawarp undock, and it's not hard to gate camp in lowsec if you can tank the guns. look at suicide ganking-when the means and targets exist, people rise up and do it.trade hubs only rise when there is safety, and safety requires neutrality. if you have an area where everyone is shoot on sight, people will shun it, even if a few people take the risk. you wont get the critical mass of transactions to reach true hub status unless some type of pirate cva exists.that's the whole problem with lowsec. i don't see how even with a black market it will change that.maybe its the ability not to be dependent that people find attractive about it. maybe they don't want to have to constantly smash blockades to let people get through, or ask people to do so. i think this is more about you wanting carebear targets though. if hi-sec dwellers organized a huge blob, and swept amanake till all the pirates gave up and quit, that wont really benefit you all."
"+1 from mebut i agree with the above post that there should be a new pos module to enable refit of sub-systems."
"this should be top priority"
"fix my sounds ccp!"
"1.0"
"+1, it's almost a year now and no fix!"
"full support, and any chance of shadows being fixed."
"1.0"
"/signed"
"pointless, but anyway, +1..."
"ok."
"supported wholeheartedly. also regarding this section of the original post:i actually have the opposite problem. i hear all of the explosions of the missiles i fire, regardless of how far away they are, but i can't hear any of my launchers when they actually launch, or missile impacts on my ship."
"that is similar to the first points i mentioned. what i mean with your quote is that we don't hear explosions from ships we have destroyed.well the fact that you hear exploding your missiles is a bit different.i'll test that out a bit more myself and also make my op a bit more clear."
"i support this 100%"
"supportin' this"
"supported"
"supported."
"supported"
"i think the idea has merit.whilst i would prefer this to be rolled into a much needed and improved csm portal i am happy to host localised versions of the minutes (supplied by the relevant volunteers) alongside the english ones on my site.so i'll officially add my support."
"bring the word to the people.and if localized, more people can be reached."
"children swear more than adults? i don't know what kind of children and adults you know, but that is not my experience at all. seriously though, this isn't a problem. the rule is in place for extreme cases, but most people aren't so anal-retentive that they report the occasional bit of foul language. we're mostly grownups here, we can handle a few naughty words, and if you're stupid enough to treat local like a rap music sing-along where it might offend random people, well, you probably deserve a petition."
"with the prevelance of buffer tanks across all spectrums of pvp and the current uselessness of ships with 'active tank' boni i propose the following:all ships with a 7.5% bonus per level to repair mod effectiveness have it increased to 10% per level.currently, even in solo/small gang situations the 7.5% rep bonus is very nearly equalled in effectiveness by a 5% resist per level bonus in terms of raw damage tanked. the ship with the resist bonus however has the advantage of being able to, should he chooses, buffer tank his vessel and take full advantage of this bonus in rr gangs. the rep bonus vessel does not.pros:ships with an active tank bonus will be utilised more in solo/small gang warfare.cons:possible slight buff to pve boats."
"yeah, active tanks really need love!/signed"
"i'm all for this"
"m8 you need to check the support box.supporting my own topic because it's cool."
"i agree with this. i don't even active tank sleipnirs because active tanks are completely useless."
"maybe the hyperion would be worth flying after this. supporting."
"yes remove the bonus for active tanking for hyperion and brutix alltogether instead add bonus to shield hp or resistance.shield gank > armor tanksuppporting !"
"stacking penaltize trimarks/extenders tbh!!!"
"supporting. would give gallente and small scale pvp some much needed love!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"this gains my approval."
"1.0"
"i dont know that it'd go far enough, but it's a step in the right direction."
"never understood why these weren't already penalizedop supported + these awesome penalties"
"yeah, the improvement over a resist bonus is far too marginal as-is."
"agreed, even if i hate the active bonuses on the brutix and hype with passion. at least at the brutix completely useless in most fits, and the hype could be so much more of a blaster ship without it."
"i agree active tanking is completly borked. especially amongst battle cruisers. i never active tank my brutix/myrmidon. i always shield tank them and squeeze as much dps out of them as i can ("
"while i am not sure that the proposed solution is the solution, active tanks need an hand, so cupported."
"agreed, bring back active tanking."
"this is a small change in the right direction. it might not be enough; it's definitely not too much."
"sounds like a patch job to me.the tanking paradigm in eve needs a rethink, a move away from buffer towards local repair for solo/small-gang engagements.this requires modifications to buffer modules, rr modules/ships, active repair modules and tweaking of ship bonuses.adjusting only the current active tank bonuses will merely result in nigh indestructible myrmidons, maelstroms and cyclones .. patch job, no thanks. full revamp, yes please."
"my experience tells me this: *) usefulness of active tank goes down proportionally with ship size: frigates are the least likely to benefit from active tank, while battleships are most likely*) usefulness of buffer tank increases with the likelihood of encountering blobs. basically, active tank is better than buffer tank when damage received is under a certain low number, while buffer tanks perform better when damage is certain number up to infinity*) faction/officer quality active tank increases much higher than faction/officer buffer tank - so that's 1 advantage of active tanking, however it's not good for general purpose pvp.i do want ccp to address this issue, but not in the way this thread suggests. i don't want tanking to be increased any more in eve, as increase of tanking vs damage favors blobbing (you should be able to figure it out if you think). i would recommend a nerf to buffer tanking.specifically, 1600mm plates and large shield extenders need a small nerf, maybe 10%. specifically, core defense field extender and trimark armor pump rigs need to decrease from 15% to 10% bonusit is the existence of these rigs that shifted game balance significantly in favor of buffer tanking some time in eve history."
"im sure some of the huge alliances might start making fleet only pvp ships manatory corp or alliance colors but lets get the colors down then we can fight for symbols ^.^"
"once again, i support this.that said, many proposals have come (including one or two of my own) for pretty exactly this. support usually is rather short, and then someone will always state that the proposal had been refused by the csm before and that ccp \"has said it will cause lag\" - both of which is then never substantiated but heavily repeated by a swarm of lagphobists.good luck this time around ;)"
"+1, would vote again.provided that the ability to not load custom paintjobs (in an effort to reduce lag) is available."
"beats the walking in station waste of dev time :p"
"that is ridiculous, i hope you're wrong. what kind of moronic bureaucratic and pointless clause would that be if an idea could never be revisited, even in a different form, even if it has merit, simply because one csm group with perhaps different priorities rejected it for who know what reasons. if that is so there is even less point in voting for the csm then there is currently.(please note i avoided using the language i would have enjoyed. praise me )"
"praised you are, jin nib ;)i suppose, the point is that the proposal wasn't updated after it had been rejected. if all the cons that lead to the csm 3 decision would have been addressed, i'd expect it to be legitimately raised against csm 4.however, as pointed to in the minutes, a similar issue had been brought to ccp already and was answered in september 2009:while i take this as a clear \"no\" from ccp, feel free to get in touch with the op and ask to have the proposal updated."
"i followed the wiki link but there was no info there. from what i can tell this is referring to a different matter entirely jonah. having to pause training in-order to jump is inconvenient but not a big deal, also it's not part of what we are discussing here.in addition the suggestion to jump 2 times in 48 hours is a pretty good option in my opinion and wasn't raised in the earlier minutes presented. as well as the fact that those minutes had quite a few references to the good old days which is not an acceptable reason."
"this."
"not supported. read the not supporting reasons, then read the supporting reasons, you will see valid reasons why this is bad vs 'i don't like my name', which was picked by them, or if a character was bought...surprise you bought it as it was, this is eve deal with it."
"not supported in its current form but i am willing to support this as an extra option for people who buy characters."
"yes, i ran into this just the other day. got some drones from one group damaged in one pocket, some drones from another group damaged in another pocket, and had to dock to repair drones since i couldn't select only sound drones to deploy in the third pocket.this -- an in-bay drone repair module would be just the thing for the drone carrier ships that substitute drones for turrets."
"would be very handy."
"i disagree, since drones/fof will allays work while other recons still hold the advantage to prevent other ships from killing them.also the point was mostly directed at \"you can spare this slots easy, since you already have all things you need.\" what is simply not the case on huginn or rapier."
"you can still dictate range with a rapier. iirc you can get up to 60k web range. that is not enough to negate dmg or gtfo?"
"60km with a faction web.also most of the time you will be within point range of your target(if not, you give it a free instawarp out of it)."
"not supported. current web strength is fine."
"bump"
"supported"
"omfg get rid of this warning!"
"signed, cause it's annoying."
"/signed"
"yes, i'll admit it; i'm a lazy sob and don't want take an extra second or two to click yet another button.on another note, i'm curious to see who, if anyone, pops in here arguing against this proposal."
"agreed."
"yes, i would love to be able to disable them. also it would be really nice to be able to disable all the other pop-ups that are in the game, including the plex description boxes etc. anyone who has been active in wormholes probably doesn't want to see the same boring descriptions for the hundred time...."
"yes."
"hell yeah"
"+1, would vote for this again."
"+1allow me to disable it..."
"so in other words, i can bid any amount i want on an auction, never pay the other guy, and he has his item locked into stasis permanently(since who knows, maybe you just haven't accepted yet). congratulations, you've just handed the entirety of the auction market to griefers. no thank you."
"now now, there's been some changes. the swarm isn't the swarm any more, they're solodrakbansolodrakbanso. still the same variety of moderation, of course, but much more annoying to refer to. seriously, +/- voting on forum comments is fine by me - usually, the idiots are outvoted. but actual moderation, on a forum like eve's, is simply not possible to crowdsource."
"if you want to mine with a tank, use a battleship, or get reps from a rorqual. not supported."
"given the current mechanics of ecm as a strength vs strength many smaller ships, even if they sacrifice slots to eccm find themselves utterly curbstomped by ecm boats. even an unbonused t1 multispec will jam most frigate class vessels 20% of the time and a skilled ecm boat pilot with approapriate mods able to lock down virtually all cruisers with a single racial jam. so i give you this:lowslot eccm will not increase sensor strength but allow the targeting of +1 ship while under the effects of jamming. ecm bursts (remote or otherwise) will still be effective.given that the pilot is sacrificing a precious lowslot in order to give himself 'relative' immunity from jamming and that the module is useless when not faced with ecm this is not unreasonable. within an rr fleet the pilot then has the choice of repping his mate or dpsing the target. this can be circumvented by sacrificing more than one lowslot but then the pilot will find himself mocked by his peers when he explodes because he has sacrificed tank or damage for this bonus."
"logging in just to support this."
"i think that is a fairly balanced solution for group fights (which is where most ecm sees use) i'd personally say make ecm a targeted effect that reduces the dps of drones and missiles from the jammed ship in a fashion that is comparable to the way tracking disrupters work against turrets, but this works too."
"i agree with this 110%. an ability to at least shoot back or keep their compatriots alive while jammed would be a tremendously good idea."
"1, 2, 3......three! three bitter people who've lost ships to ecm boats! hahaha!"
"responding to troll: you'd be hard pressed to find anyone, that actually pvps, in eve that hasn't lost ships to ecm boats."
"i think this might be too strong a nerf to the ecm boats.never thought i'd hear those words out of my mouth lol"
"you don't know the half of it mate."
"let me put it to you this way. presume you engage a fleet of twenty battleships with no eccm whatsoever with a group of falcons and battlecruisers, say...no more than four falcons. there is enough ecm in there to cripple the rr of the bs gang and essentially kill every single ship, yet you propose that they can't even have a single opportunity to lock each other to keep each other alive? lets change the scenario. lets make it a small bs gang versus a small carrier fleet. your bs gang needs literally no extra backup to kill the carrier gang if there isn't even a way through the ecm. eccm mods only work some of the time, but if there's a module that could be equipped to save maybe....three or four of the carriers out of five, i'm willing to consider it a fair change. essentially what we're suggesting here isn't a way to render ecm boats completely moribund, but instead give a second alternative to an eccm midslot mod."
"[apocalypse, anti eccm buff]radar backup array iiradar backup array iidamage control iiadaptive nano plating iienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates iwarp disruptor ii100mn microwarpdrive iisensor booster ii, scan resolutionmedium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800mega pulse laser ii, multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, multifrequency llarge 'solace' i remote bulwark reconstructionlarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump ihammerhead ii x5shoot primary, repair enemies primary, entire ewar line rendered *completely* useless. there's no chance of success like ecm now, and no amount of ewar dog piling can overcome the fit like all the other ewar types."
"i agree, too strong. not supported."
"nice damage bro. even by fitting two you are unable to split tackle while maintaining rr and shooting the primary so even if your zero damage bs gang is curbstomping the enemy a few rounds of jams should still allow most of the enemy to escape. couple this with the fact that you are wasting two lowslots on these things which are rendered absolutely useless if you don't run into any ecm."
"not supported.the defensive of the ecm boat is jamming. adding a module that would leave one possible lock on a frigate. means everyone will swarm ecm boats with frigates to kill them and they become essentially useless. unlike most other race recons, which have 2 bonused ewars each, they are basically one trick ponies.they arent as common as in the past, so i seriously dont see a need to nerf them further."
"far too powerful. ecm ships would have no means of escape if a tackler fitted one of these things not to mention it would essentially make rr blobs invulnerable to everything except for highly specialised counters (mass bombers, sniper-blob, dd etc.)a much better solution, provided that ecm mechanic is not revamped entirely, is to have the low-slot module add a fixed number to sensor strength based on ship signature radius .. the smaller it is the higher the boost.would give the slot deficient frigate/destroyer class an actual chance at preventing a jam, without making the larger classes impervious to ecm."
"heaven forbid that remote rep gangs should have any viable counter"
"qq more falcon pilots? i don't think you appreciate how hard it would be to operate in an rr bs gang with the ability to lock one or two targets coupled with the fact that you are compromising your setup considerably meaning that in the absence of ecm an equal or lesser sized gang of similar composition will utterly steam roll you. the falcon/rook/scorp still has the option of an ecm burst (and a nifty drone bay) to protect him from being 'swarmed by frigates' coupled with a brain which should have him aligned out, ready to warp if something tries to get on top of him. and yes ecm would still counter rr bs gangs, maybe not quite as well, but as i said, they'd be sacrificing a large number of slots to become 'immune' and thus easier to defeat conventionally, and there's still always the option (a much funnier one i may add) of warping half a dozen buffered ecm burst scorps onto the enemy gang. might even make damps coupled with ecm more useful again. as it stands, the standard ecm boat is still very much a 'faceroll' class of vessel requiring very little skill to utilise.what this does give is small frigate/cruiser gangs the opportunity to not be completely nullified by one or two ecm boats. how about this as a suggestion then: each lowslot eccm protects againts 1 successful jam.i'm throwing this out there. this isn't a direct falcon whine, there are other classes of ecm boat around you know."
"not supported. rr bs gangs do not need a boost."
"yeah, however if your flying a 20 man battleship fleet, #1 shame on your fc for not setting up a sniper amarr bb to deal with the e-war boats. i mean you only need one sniper fit apoc with dual eccm to negate most ecm. and since your using lazers your damage is gonna hit that big huge hole in the tank of those nasty caldari ships and they will pop in 1-2 vollys #2 cordinating 4 pilots to shut down 20 seperate targets under a combat situation is a realy nice acomplishment. props to the fc wo pulls that off."
"yes, your also goig to be eaten by anyone with 5 wairrior 2s in the drone bay. dead caped by anyone who gets a neut on you, (especially a curse) and have your targeting range cut to nothing by anyone who bothers to fit a dampener. guess what your flying a frig thats your place in the food chain of eve."
"not supported. this makes ecm pretty ineffective as a whole, as in combat most of the time you only really need to have one ship targeted in the first place - the one you're shooting. ecm would only have an effect on ships that need to switch targets quickly - logistcs, and... um... ... ..logistics.this is a terrible idea."
"actually, this would have relatively little effect in larger battles where as stated before, you'd be a fool to not dedicate a tachabaddon or two to anti ecm work. even if you are only capable of targeting one ship there will still be significant time lag between switching from primaries to secondaries etc etc.it would however give gangs of smaller ships a chance vs those who roll with lots of ecm and promote the use of different types of offensive ewar in fleets instead of the stereotypical facerolling falcon/scorp/rook pilot."
"yes"
"i am for boosting eccm, but this is too powerful as it technically gives total immunuty to the effect, as you will have ability to put full dps on to one target.ecm and eccm need to be more balanced generally, if you are willing to use a slot for eccm it should give a good level of immunity to jamming, however, if a determined ecm pilot wants to use all his mods to jam one pilot, it should be damn hard to counter.with your suggestion even if you had 8 racial jammers hitting you, you woild be able to target 1 enemy and direct all damage on him,also one of the biggest uses of ecm jamming is to disable the already too prevalent logistic ships... with just one module they can make ecm a non issue to them as they could still rep someone.so yes eccm needs help, but not this way."
"sounds good to me."
"cool story bro.oh wait....not supporting."
"one thing i can stand behind"
"grarr: you are using enough falcons in fountain yourself ;)"
"at present logging off while flying a supercapital makes the ship disappear after one minute. it is common practice to have an alt for the sole purpose of piloting that ship and is kept logged out when the ship is not needed.the problem with this is that the ship is unable to be attacked making it invulnerable. this bypasses a large amount of the risk that was meant to come with owning a supercapital. my proposed solution is for supercapitals to remain in space when the pilot flying it logs out, requiring the pilot to park it inside a pos as was originally intended."
"your proposal already falls short on a very basic game mechanic:your ship enters emergency warp when you log out. voila you are outside of the shield. but for a moment lets assume your ship stays in the pos shield. what will stop other people to first kill the pos and then your supercap?all in all your idea is just stupid. sounds like someone wants easy supercap kills.last but not least you havent been able to find this thread on the first page of the assembly hall? which basically covers the same topic."
"that wont work with a tower that has stront in it. supercaps shouldn't be invulnerable most of their lives, isn't that why they aren't allowed to dock? fewer would be built if they can't be made to disappear when it's convenient. i'm more concerned with keeping supercap proliferation from getting worse than i am with getting a killmail."
"you make it impossible to hold any supercap.ever imagined not every super cap pilot has time to log in every day because of real life issues?not docking is dedication enough for me. making it worse is not needed."
"what do they need to log in for? their corp/alliance/etc should be helping to defend the ship. supercaps are corp/alliance assets, not solo ships."
"many players are wealthy enough to fund their own personal supercap(s). if you want to prevent supercap proliferation then grow some balls, get out there and pew pew them, don't go looking for cheap ganks by popping towers while the guy is out of town for the weekend."
"i find myself agreeing with lark. fail idea is fail."
"there should be a compromise, the log out timer is way too small right now for pvpi'd say, log out timer should be extended to 2 minutes - which would mostly harm farmer ravens that like to use jump + log trickthen the log out timer should extend more for capitals - 5 minutesand for supercaps - 15 minutes"
"when is the council going to tackle a very large base of macro miners? macro miners infest asteroid belts and is a clear violation of the eula. belts are steadily cleared out in high sec due to eula violaters. i'm sure people will claim it helps the economy, etc. it doesn't. the only economy it does help is the wallets of those people using them. if actual \"real people\" miners could mine, isk would be spread out more among the masses rather than eula violations increasing those folks wallets. this needs to start being enforced. \"go to 0.0 and mine then\" is also not an option. it is simply macro miners using their own type of damage control to keep illegal operations intact. will this be brought up or not? i looked at the list of csm topics and this wasn't on there. if you are for macro miners, you use it, plain and simple. this needs to be brought up at the meetings or are the meetings only for 0.0 holding alliances?"
"ccp has banned something like 25,000 accounts in the last 8 months for eula violations. accusing them of idleness with regard to this issue merely displays your ignorance."
"eula violations, so they banned 25k for macro mining? screw you punk =)"
"macro mining, isk selling (which is the root for the first).not supported."
"you heard him, csms! go out in your frigates and tackle macro miners!thanks for bringing this up as i'm sure that nobody at ccp was aware of the existance of macromining until this thread."
"obviously not. i've delivered them several names, yet they continue mining 23/7. try to play it down all you want, macro mining is a problem."
"this isn't a proposal so much as a request/question to have the csm 'grill' ccp about their efforts and according to the op why any macro miners are in the game.first it is a problem but ccp can't just ban people because they appear to be macro mining they have standards/procedures to follow, what those are i have no clue. i think, as i believe the op does, that once it is brought to their (ccp) attention it should be pretty simple to check logs, attempt making contact etc to see that no one is home on the character. but it doesn't seem to work like that, part of it may be ccp dragging their feet, feeling they want to see what the character does, to uncover other macro accounts or follow isk transfers/theft/hack. it may also be ccp has this as a low priority or is bombarded with user reports or their own information that they are investigating, ie a queue of people to investigate etc.i have given up on reporting macro miners as i did so 4 or so times on the same people and only once did i see one of them vanish for a month, perhaps they were banned temporarily or perhaps they took time off from running the macro. i also feel ccp is much more interested in rmt than simple macro mining players who use macros to mine and never engage in any rmt. add to the fact that reporting a macro 'wastes' one of my petitions i'd rather not bother when to me it seems ccp isn't that interested or takes so long to do anything, if the actually do anything.op needs to come up with a thought out proposal with expectations ie have the csm inquire as to what standards or procedures are used by ccp when investigating user reported macro accounts rather than a general 'rant' about the csm not stating their intentions to grill ccp about macro mining."
"it might help if ccp gets rid of static asteroid belts.make miners scan for active belts in their system. we have to for wormholes, etc...?it would also get rid of all those 30 day gscans!"
"ccp has been and continues to reduce macro mining. the macro miners simply create new accounts, train them up, and continue. as long as rmt exists, macro miners will exist.i do not support this thread for asshattery, but i would support means of further discouraging rmt."
"yes, ccp is aware of this problem, and indeed recently initiated a very bold measure to provide a stopgap. during my term in the csm, i was given a very brief overview of what came to be known as project unholy rage, and waited with baited breath for it to be implemented.as the blog i linked above states, it is an ongoing process. in fact, a lot of rmts have stopped macroing and started hacking accounts to get the isk.if you want to help the problem, petitions are fine, but it's better to tell people about etc trading. one of the reasons rmt occurs is that a lot of new players don't realize they can conduct the isk for rl money trade legally.i hate macroers every bit as much as you do, being a miner and industrialist mainly. ccp is doing more to combat it that any other gaming company i know of (and i even know of some who have stopped fighting and permitted it). it's a constant game of cat-and-mouse, but i have faith that ccp are doing their best, and even talked to people in the group responsible for it (which i will not reveal their names or identities)."
"which is, of course, why you can gang up on a mission with someone, never go within 2147483646 jumps of the things you're getting credit for killing, and get a full split of their lp. i'm a fan of making sure that everything with a value has a price. supported."
"this. not supported, loyalty points are for one character. the only way i could support it would be if loyalty points were instead more like corp shares. but no to this proposal"
"use your lp to buy faction ammo from the lp store and sell it on the market. problem solved."
"they heavy interdictor has a role, tackling supercapitals. with the current titan changes this vessel can not perform this role anymore. heavy interdictors are getting simply dd or shot by the other guns and dying under 5 min. the current dictors are fine, however u can not see when u have put up your last bubble.my proposal is to give heavy interdictors a special role vs titan dd's. a 80% resistance bonus to incomming fire of a dd. and a bigger bubble radius, 25 km at l5 skills. this to make the hic interesting again. my proposal for the normal dictors is a timer on the interdicter spherelaucher so u can see when u have dropped your last bubble."
"if a titan's guns are able to track your hic you're doing something wrong.a titan can only dd (and thus kill a hic) once every 10 minutes. if there are multiple titans on the field then you should scale accordingly and bring more diktors.you are able to check if you're ready to bubble or not on a normal sphere launcher by attempting to activate it."
"yes but a bubble stay up for 2 minuts and u can only activate it once every 30 sec, im talking about the other 1.5 minhow fast can u kill a titan? assume the enymie has 3 titans on the field and killing a titan by a big blob + dread fleet cost around 10-15 min. how many hictors do u need to keep 1 tackled untill it dies?"
"hictors got more roles than tackling titans."
"support"
"i agree, would even like to see the countdown from the very start of the subscription"
"supported. i've already experienced running out once and almost losing a ship during an op."
"there is no reason to add it \"in game\", superflous to say the least.your second part makes a lot more sense. a clearly visible/distinctive entry on the login screen showing expiration date of account.perhaps some large(ish) bold lettering beside the now diminutive bio-massing button. supported with caveat."
"i care because the resources that went to maintain and update it are better applied elsewhere. (which is why ccp made the decision in the first place.)a big thumbs down."
"yeah, a better interface for the lp store would be nice."
"i definitely would like a more detailed and/or finer discrimination in a search function in the lp store.editted to show support..."
"would rather have a sidebar of categories as it is in the market window."
"i like this idea a lot. have caldari towers give -100% cpu instead of a dps/rof bonus, and balance them post-bonus. give missiles a fair bit different an approach than turrets, but make it so the towers balance, and you have an interesting choice to make if you ever want to mount non-bonus weapon systems on a tower for whatever reason."
"pos missile batteries are just about useless currently, they need major rethinking to make them worth putting up on a pos. an armor rr battleship blob usually tanks a missile fit pos with the passive shield recharge... i don't think that anyone even bothers incapping the missile batteries."
"like this idea except for the floating around with repairers going thing. if it was tied only to kills of npc and players (or roids) i might support. that way someone would actually have to be actively engaged in something to make it work. whole new sub profession, crew trainer. also, repackaging or renaming the ship would kill the bonuses that had been built up. this would create actual legendary ships....ebeneser scrooj and his infamous kestrel, \"cacaw\"! i know."
"this has been proposed like four times in the last month. the problem varies with the implementation, but in general it's too complex, not really meaningfully different from modules, and in your case, leading to an xp grind(which nobody wants). not supported."
"and it is so abusable that it hurts."
"this had been brought to and answered by ccp in september 2009:csm-ccp meeting minutes, see $ 6.57 (pp. 14)i understand this as a \"no\"."
"not completely opposed, but i really don't see a need."
"this has been specifically listed as an intended feature when walking in stations is released soon(tm). no need to request it."
"ummm, all of the csm2 issues are on there, i know because i spent a ridiculous amount of time putting them all there. as to who is responsible, i felt it was the secretary's job as it fell under the \"publish to the eve public\" area."
"isd is pretty unobtrusive and they wont get in the way unless you're spamming ****. i dont know how the page protecting works but im sure that if you speak to the isd that controls that, they can help you. i dont know who that is though. anybody willing to help would definitely be accepted since it seems not many people want to do stuff like organizing the wikipedia."
"c'mon, ccp designers... this is the 21st century i know you can do this while the programmers are busy fixing the lag"
"i gotta go with ophelia... you used a reactor control ii, and a macr, yet on all the other fits you only used a macr, and your trying to claim caldari rail ships are not power anemic? get out of eft."
"did i missed something or where is the point to compare tier 2 bs vs tier 3 bs ?when you compare a rokh vs an apoc or megathon plz keep in mind that the rokh is tier 3 an this must have an advantage vs tier 2.from my point : boost rails/rokh or nerv some sorted tier2 battleships in damage"
"proof please. sure, the minmatar ships have less dps, but they have more than twice the alpha strike per gun.eft displays the weakness of large railguns quite vividly. it is easier to increase distance than it is to increase damage (damage has a heavy stacking penalty on modules).and this is what it boils down to. a rokh costs more than an apoc but has similar tank, similar range, and less damage? more noticeable when comparing the apoc and the mega. which should be in balance (not to be confused with \"the same\") as each should have things they are good at. yet, the apoc is better in every way than the mega."
"great! 100% support so far. this has got to mean something right?"
"at the risk of getting flamed: i support the idea./signed"
"tason, let's think about this.fragmenting high-sec will mean: 1) there will be more entry points into low-sec. 2) there are very few semi-permanent gatecamps on these border gates now. a lot less than high-sec huggers imagine.3) more entry points through low-sec and ways to get from point a to point b will mean less chance of running into these camps. less rookie and newer pilots will have their first experience with low-sec result in a nasty explosion.4) more ways to enter low-sec will spread the traffic meaning that the relatively few \"professional\" campers will see less profit for their time spent camping. boredom ensues. more \"professional\" campers rediscover joy of solo and small gang pirating or pvping. ard rejoices!5) true, many high-sec denizens live in high-sec because they are crippled with risk aversion. this will never change. they won't cross 3 or 5 low-sec systems to get from rens to jita no matter what. 6) this will strengthen other markets at jita's expense. it will free the other lesser hubs from adjusting their prices so much based on jita. it will improve what's available around eve instead of such a high concentration of goods in jita. good traders, industrialists and miners will rejoice. those willing to travel through low-sec to get the best prices will thrive while the risk averse will be penalized. 7)it will encourage entrepreneurial traders to stock low-sec: \"hey, i gotta go through there (low-sec) anyway to make 10% more in jita. i might as well just put my goods on the market there and reap 25 to 75% more profit off the ebil piwates.\"8) oh yeah...macroers and afk autopiloters will cry rivers of tears.tldr: fragmenting high-sec creates more \"edge\". this will reduce predation by spreading the wolves out further. fragmenting high-sec will take our \"gloablized\" market back a step or two which will be good for the smart small businessman. fragmenting high-sec will likely strengthen bonds between high-sec corps by making their perceived universe a bit smaller.ps - i get plenty of targets as it stands. you won't find a post on eve-o where i have ever complained about targets despite living in low-sec for over 2 1/2 years and making my living almost exclusively from pirating.when i comment on these types of threads it's from a perspective of what would improve the game and not my own narrow self-interests. don't mistake me for a high-sec carebear again please."
"i would love to see lowsec get some love. the black market in particular seems interesting. one possible way to further this idea would be to have factions in empire space impose a tax on all market transactions, a tax that is not present in lowsec. this would further encourage players to buy/sell in lowsec, as the increased tax-free gains could offset the inevitable ship losses traders would suffer."
"so no trade hubs exist in npc 0.0? i think you might want to take a closer look...and if the black market is made to be the only place pirate/deadspace modules and pirate ships are able to be traded...yeah hubs will definitely formi love when people make assumptions like this. check this character and the ceo of the corp. neither are pirates. nice try though also, the day hi-sec dwellers mob through low sec pirate hubs will indeed be a day to behold."
"lowsec needs some loving, and any number of these ideas would help."
"increasing lowsec participation hasn't worked. it didn't work with factional warfare, it hasn't with the gallente mission lines, and it hasn't with pirate missions. fragmenting hi-sec is just going to be one more failed initiative because it just will reduce secure space while keeping current pirate activity the same or more.unless ccp creates new star routes or systems, we wont see an increase in routes large enough over distance to enable what you want ard. a lot of the exits to empire systems lead to culdesacs of space, and it's more or less constant in terms of route potential. people wont stock lowsec for the same reasons they dont currently-the places with the best markets have the highest risk, and there's only so much you can mark up goods without pirates stocking themselves. it's not like we don't have lowsec areas with market potential already.you are also going to drop mining and missioning production as the amount of harvestable systems decrease, and that's going to be reflected in cost. regional markets are a bad thing, because making the travelling hard makes systems insanely vulnerable to predatory markups. the game works as is in regards to security space in my opinion. if you want to make lowsec sort of a 0.0/empire hybrid that's okay, but trying to carve empire to force people into lowsec is not going to achieve any of the aims listed."
"and this is where your stupidity shows.regional markets bad? markups bad? wtf? someone doesn't like the concept of free trade.if you have nothing constructive to add, stop posting in this thread. your posts screams \"leave us high sec guys alone, i want 100% security and don't care about if low sec gets help.\" we get it, you don't like the ideas. unless you have some alternatives, stfu."
"lets not make this an argument thread please.there are several misconceptions about lowsec that hisec people make, the main one being they think lowsec people want hisec people to come there to be ganked. this is pretty much totally wrong. some pirates wouldlike to get more kills on gatecamps yeah.but for the most part lowsec entities are fightin each other on a day to day basis, mostly we dont give a rats ass if carebears dont come down...this thread is about creating a better environment for those people, the people who live in lowsec. i also have lived in lowsec for years, i am a pirate, but if you look at my corps stats, 99% of the kills are combat ships, pvp fitted by other lowsec entities.so, lets keep this on track and not make an argument thread."
"maybe, but probably true only in a very limited way (i.e. where 2 usable routes are more than 1).again only a half truth. there are semi permanent gatecamps in almost all systems that see a decent level of traffic. the frequency of gatecamps increase with the frequency of passages. remove the high sec routes that connect then empires and add a few low sec routes and those routes will be camped.and again a half truth. rookie and newer pilots will follow the autopilot, i.e. the shortest route, making it the most used. guess where the gatecamp will be? and again the same half truth. little interest in pvp is different from risk aversion. maybe.lol. you have a very strange idea about how trading work.a serious trader will not block 30 sell orders to cover a low sec station where he will see at most 1 of his orders move every day. to make a hub you need a location where at least hundreds of orders move every day. in your dreams. macroers will not care. afk autopiloters with a little experience will simply select to always avoid low sec. lol.no, we take you for a low sec gankbear. \"get me more easy targets.\"what is best for you is not automatically best for the game. unless your definition of trade hub is very different from mine, no, there aren't trade hubs in low sec."
"venkul, you continue to post a lot of words on these forums to say the same thing over and over again: \"i don't get eve.\"carry on."
"read again moron. i implied there are trade hubs in npc 0.0, which there are (i understand a high sec pubbie like yourself would not know this). i then went on to imply that if there were a dedicated black market, the only place for pirate shisp/modules/implants to be sold, hubs would form in low sec. nowhere did i say there are hubs currently in low sec.nice try at reading comprehension though. keep on whining about how scary low sec is."
"make npcs fight like sleepers and require pvp fits to fight. both plexes and belts. means pirates don't get a free ride whenever we find someone in a belt.as much as i like the idea of pirate ships/fittings being illegal, surely there will be so many tears in highsec when carebears get concorded for having a dread guristas fitted golem.boosting the income from lowsec finally would be good. alot of exploration sites that are almost of the grade of un-upgraded nullsec. need more level 4 agents aswell.corrupt corporations also would be interesting. with a high enough corp standing, they would ignore aggression near their station and should give benefits for continued base in their station (agents availible to all corp members, reduced cost for manufacture/research/office/contracts). however navy sentries should never ignore aggression.edit: removing highsec links between at war factions would also be a good idea. don't know why caldari/amarr to gallente/minmatar would have safe links to eachother. links between friendly factions should be few but present. hopefully this create a more empire divide than their is now."
"i support this idea!"
"corrupt corporations.. hmm, maybe some of the corps could have ties to some criminal corps, maybe creodron could supply serpentis lp rewards at a higher price... that kind of thing too. and yeah paying off a corporation so their sentries dont fire at your alliance...but i agree navy/gate sentries should always act properly."
"this is what highsec humpers actually believe"
"classic. oh and supporting boost to low sec fo sho."
"so your definition of \"trade hub\" is a station in delve with 30 costumers in a day?you see, i have spent 1 year there and know very how \"trade hubs\" in 0.0 work. translation for your intellect: those aren't hubs they are very small local markets. no, i am saying \"i don't want to play eve your way\".and find pretty fastidious your attempts to force me to play how you want."
"how is this an argument against trying to stimulate the low sec market so that it develops trade centers? way to mangle a sentence. you're idea of being forced into anything is a simple diversion with no basis. none of the ideas here are forcing you into to low sec and don<U+FFFD>t affect high sec (except for the pirate ship limit which was pretty much thrown out). as such your continued presence in the thread is somewhat baffling. this thread has absolutely nothing to do with high-sec."
"well to make a living off piracy, you'd need a few of those once in a while. living off t2 droppings doesn't work all that well if you lose a ship now and then."
"rockets suck. make this not so."
"make roflkets into rawrkets, please."
"supoorted immensly."
"/signed"
"while they're fixing the sound engine, they should also add options to turn off specific sounds (they're all generated by pod anyway). i.e. i hate the new shield hardener sound, it's very annoying, and it doesn't really hold any important information. why can't i tell my pod not to generate that.i'm currently at the point of trying to extract eve res files and replacing that damn shield hum with a silent wav (or whatever format they use). same for in-station sounds.also, supported."
"sound would be nice."
"either re-enable ghost training or disable ghost datacore farming. it's same logic."
"/signedthis really needs to be sorted out sooner rather than later."
"supported"
"this."
"supported"
"i can't see this happening across the board. manufacturing slots, queues, failed jobs etc would all be at the mercy of the billing system and rectifying mistakes might be more hassle than its worth."
"agreed. this is broken and should be fixed.anyone trying to say otherwise likely has a farm of accounts sitting idle reaping piles of datacores. <o/"
"adding my input to the thread."
"not the issue being discussed.those that want to stop all activity when an account goes inactive start a proposal, clueless as you are, the issue is getting something for 'nothing' ad infinitum. stopping market orders, manufacturing, invention, research when an account goes inactive is stupid for the simple reason that those activities will end naturally. add in to the fact that market orders will go 'out of date' by the simple fact that they can't be updated while the account is inactive, if they are not made obsolete by other players it is the failure of other active players to respond, nearly anything else is simple greed about .01 isk wars and a competitor's orders. research/manufacturing those slots won't magically open up as nearly every job is tacked onto the back of another one so you have to wait for them to clear out first. you also put your job in the line so you know it will take x time for completion there is no need to accelerate that because someone else didn't keep their account active either you accept the time quoted for your job or you don't period. when you consider that people make mistakes/take breaks from the game you are telling them that if they let their account go inactive everything they had going on is 'crap' and 'go to hell' when they comeback to find everything canceled/stopped that is not a way to 'welcome back' a player to pay for their account again. ghost rp as it has been dubbed is about gaining while not giving/paying, market orders/r&d jobs/etc are paid for and set to end, ghost rp is not paid for and does not end ever. furthermore ghost rp allows players to farm an account that they activate only once or twice a year to collect the data cores to sell and pay for other accounts, all other activities you want to stop don't give that kind of huge direct benefit.thank you for reading.tldr: hello."
"so, let me outline what i'm going on about here.motherships have had a name change to super-carriers. this implies that they are burlier versions of their carrier counterparts.amarr, archon - aeongallente, thanatos - nyxcaldari, chimera - wyvernall of these are completely linear, allow me to elaborate.amarr ehp screeny5.6x more shield, 8.0x more armor, 4.2(ish)x more hull hp (raw)armor resist bonus is consistent in the range.one additional slow to main tanking ability from carrier to super-carrier(lows)i.e. bonus to tanking hp & slot formation for that tank.gallente ehp screeny5.4x more shield, 8.4x more raw armor, 4x more hull hp (raw).dps bonus is consistantone additional slot to main tanking ability from carrier to super-carrier(lows)i.e. bonus to tanking hp & slot formation for that tank.caldari ehp screeny8x more shield, 5.9x more raw armor, 4.4x more hull hp (raw).shield resist bonus is consistent throughout the range.one additional slot to main tanking ability from carrier to super-carrier (mids)i.e. bonus to tanking hp & slot formation for that tank.now, lets look at minmatar. ehp screenynidhoggur to hel, entirely inconstant re: the trends above.8.8x more shield, 5.3x more raw armor, 4.4x more hull hp (raw).one less slot to main tanking ability from carrier to super-carrier (lows)i.e. no such tanking hp bonus and a reduction in slot-configuration for its tanking ability.as such i state that there is an abnormality here and this needs to be addressed. the abnormalities here are;slot configurationhp bonus' through out the range.i propose the slot configuration be changed to;6 highs5 mids7 lowsand the hp amounts to be;5.2x niddy shield, giving the hel 585,500 raw shield hp8.2x niddy armor, giving the hel 992,500 raw armor hp4.1x niddy hull, giving the hel 461,250 raw hull hpif at the very least;6 highs6 mids6 lowshp amounts;7.0x niddy shield, giving the hel 787,000 raw shield hp7.0x niddy armor, giving the hel 787,000 raw armor hp4.1x niddy hull, giving the hel 461,250 raw hull hptl;drminnie range of carriers & super-carriers does not follow the trand of the other three races.hels is vastly inferior (tanking ability wise) in comparison to its peersniddys can be utilised as an effective shield or armor tanker. this is not reflected in the hel.the sub-standard thinking of \"two shield tankers, two armor tankers\" needs to be purged and the situation re-evaluated.as such it needs balancing.thanks for your time & support.grootedited to include the idea that minnie should be flexible and proposing that the hel should be a 100% dedicated armor tanker it too biased as such middle ground of 6/6/6 & even armor & shield hp should be entertained (echoing that of the nidhoggur)"
"agreed & supported."
"yes i completely agree the hel needs adjusting to be in-keeping with the other carrier to super-carrier range."
"indeed, hel is far behind the other super carriers. sort its hp/slots."
"agreed, fully support groot t's proposal."
"couldn't agree more."
"finally someone proposed it."
"the hel is too vulnerable to multiple doomsdays. a nicely fit armor hel will only have around 33% of the effective hp of an aeon. this needs changing.edit - supported."
"ya, ccp would have to give a very good reason not to buff it :( wtb better hel's!"
"fully support thisthe hel needs a serious revamp to bring it into line"
"give the flying flying roof some lovin!full support here =)"
"-signed- <3 niddy & hel 4eva"
"what do you expect from a giant rust bucket? that said, op is correct in that the hel does not follow the same trend as other super carriers.however, considering the hel has the second most shields and the second least armor, it should logically be shield tanked. unless of course we are broaching the topic of capital shield tanks not being on par with capital armor tanks again."
"the need to sort this ship out has been going on for sometime. personally, i taken the time to train up for triage, seeing as this ship will be responsible for helping to keep other moms/carriers alive with what is effectively half a tank,this makes the hel an expensive waste of time. this thread really need to be taken notice of and something finally done."
"i agree"
"agreed"
"agreed"
"agree & supported"
"agreed."
"i have a feeling that ccp will not be willing to switch the hel to an armor buffer layout, but it would be nice. at the very least could you give the ship a worthwhile bonus?"
"agreed and supported."
"get's my vote"
"the point here is clear as day. the hel, compared to others has an imbalance that really needs to be balanced, as per the trend of others."
"supported. down with minmatar hate! :)"
"agreed and supported :)"
"more love to the slaves"
"agreed. there's no reason minmatar need to be as disfunctional as they are right now."
"supporting dis, they are the most fiddly thing to set up even when you understand the odd flaws like this."
"1.0"
"given current amount of spying it's a terrible idea, op's one is ok though"
"i don't use my main very much for this reason. i don't like being penalised for solo pvping in 0.0 outnumbered vs bubbled camps."
"at least make the increase linear. asymptotic curve is stupid."
"i like this chart. there is a maximum income in eve. for most people, you earn the same amount of isk no matter if you are 10mil sp or 100mil. you might do that mission 10% faster, but its not 10 times faster which the current clone system wants you to grind for. no suicide roams for old players it seems."
"this. if you really think about it, 30mil is peanuts compared to what you could make on any given day. if you really want to roam in t1 frigs, factor in the cost of a potential new clone and plan accordingly."
"a small step in the right direction.don't nerf passive/buffer tanking, buff active tanking.definetly supported"
"supporting his topic because it's cool."
"i've been suggesting changing rep bonuses for resistance bonuses for a while, but buffing the rep bonuses instead is also a viable idea.if you want to go further, also give the effected ships a rep cap usage bonus."
"brutix says yes please."
"i am sure this will surprise everybody, but i will say no. th reason i say no is the simple fact that in my personal opinion the problem is not with the bonus, but with the vessels themselves, there characteristics. for example take britux. a blaster boat must have:a: gunsb: some sort of speed mod, lpreferably mwdc: a repper, since it has a repping bonus. now, britux does not have the powergrid to fit these modules. neither does it have the cap capable of supporting mwd, 7 cap-hungry guns and a repper. now, in case you whant booster, or dual boosters, that's even more need for power grid. pretty much the same goes for hyperion. i hate to see these ships being shieldtancked. these are suppose to be high-dps ships with active tank, and yet they do not have the slots to support a powerfull tank and damage mods, they do not have the powergrid to fit the stuff they need, and they do not have the cap to sustain the mods. to explore this situation further, i will give you an example. abaddon and hyperion are both 8-gunned battleships, with damage and tank bonus, both designed to be the heavy argument on the field for their race, imo hate bricks for short. so let us explore why abaddon is successful, and hyperion is not. after you fit 8 highest caliber guns on an abaddon, them being mega pulse laser 2's, 8 of them, you still have 6450 units of power grid left. those are t2 guns, with maximum advanced weapon upgrades skill. after you fit 8 t2 neutron blaster on hyperion, you have 2670 units of power grid left. therefore, hyperion has almost three times less resources avaliable for utility slots, such as mwd (with hyperion having a grater need for one since it has shorter range) cap boosters and plates. not only that, but hyperion has to fir armor repair units, that consume 4 times the power grid of an anmor plate- because if you do not fit it with reppers you are not using the ships bonus, so if anything, hyperion should have more power grid left over after you fit guns on it. surprisingly, lasers also consume less cpu then blasters do, leaving abaddon more cpu for e-war and other utility modules. hyperion natively has much weaker cap then the abaddon does, yet it has to support mwd and the reppers (1 or two, two if you whant a powerfull tank) when abaddon only needs to support lasers, again giving abaddon pilot grater freedom in fitting utilities. i have compared hyperion to abaddon as abaddon has the closest role to this batlteship, and as we can see it is inferior in every way. i ofcource understand that some ships might not be as good as others, but in this case, it is the ships that need fixing, not the bonus, there parameters and slot layouts. hyperion at the moment is broken. yes, it can be used for different applications, but it does not exceed in anything. it is outtancked, outgunned and outperformed by other battleships in every area. domi is more flexible, megathron has more dps, abaddon has greatly better buffertank, maelstorm has better active tank. apoc and rockh are better snipers. it does not have a niche currently, nor can it compete on even terms with it's opponents. the only reason i am supporting this, is because it will improve the situation over what we have currently, however i would like the ships to be looked at again, because when an armortancked ship with a bonus is outperformed by the very same ship shieldtanked, without any bonuces, that indicates that something is wrong."
"managing your cap makes you a good pilot. mismanagement makes you a bad pilot."
"i phail to see how that is relevant to my post."
"it was relevant before you edited it a second time. not my fault you are so undecided what you actually want to write."
"this doesn't make the transfer of hacked characters \"easier\". if your character was hacked, you've got other issues. this isn't a nerf/buff to transferring, but a transparency issue. if anything, you'd now have a time/date stamp to point to and say \"this is when it was transferred to someone else.\" in your petition to ccp."
"the pilgrim is probably the worst of the 4 force recons. it's the only recon that has to be in web range (overloaded) and very near scram range to use it's bonused cap warfare mods. all other recons can use all their stuff from much further away, mostly even outside of disruptor range.i support changing the cap warfare amount bonus to a range bonus,orgiving a role bonus of +50% range to cap warfare and nerfing the amount bonus for balance (that's still inside disruptor range but at least outside scram & web).edit: adding falloff to cap warfare mods would also be interesting."
"1) this is not \"your idea\", you're more like the 76783402nd guy who had \"yaaay!!! i got me a pink ship of doom! how cool is that?!\" idea ... use the eve-search.com if you don't trust me;2) off all the games mentioned, how many supported massive 500 vs 500 fleet fights on a single grid (or how many of them were mmos, while we're at it)?3) the problem with loading additional color info is not on the client side, but on the server side. although you can't see drone models when you launch them, the server sure sees them.4) in how many situations exactly can you see other player controlled ships to justify the additional load on the server that must process the color information for all players that are trying to load a grid in a fleet fight?5) would you really like to see how other ppl painted their ships, or you would rather like to see your ship painted?the questions were rhetorical, if you haven't noticed so far. the solution for your \"problem\" would be client side custom paint that only you can see on your ship, so it doesn't make additional load on the server, but somehow i know that we'll see another 23452348 threads about the same topic in the future and that this post (made out of pure boredom while i wait for my connection to become stable enough to get back into the game) will be lost. so, i'm just going to say that your idea is bad - not supported.edit: your statement that all textures are sent to the server already could only mean one of the two things: a) you don't even for a second think about what you are going to throw on the forum; b) you're a simple troll."
"it would be silly if a proposal could be infinitely re-raised without any changes simply because one person wants it to."
"unfortunately, the wiki pages do not contain any information regarding the progress of a proposal at all. one has to find and dig through the corresponding minutes/reports to gather additional information :( that's why i provided the additional linkage.don't get me wrong, i don't want to keep anyone to re-raise an issue formerly rejected by a csm. however, i expect such proposals to be updated appropriately to reflect the reasons that led to its refusal, thus removing points like sokratesz -below- above. that's my point i'm trying to draw your attention to."
"a few things, first it would be in a different sitting of the csm and a different person would be raising it. it's hardly one person doing so infinitely. second given that the csm is supposedly something supposed to represent the rest of the players they may want to take a bit more time and give a more in depth consideration of things which have a lot of player interest. look at those minutes, those are weak unsupported arguments for the most part (it's hard to give a good argument in one line admittedly).as jonah suggests all that need to be done is to refine the idea which one assumes these sorts of threads are well suited to doing. part of the problem of course is those tiny one liners that may be invalid arguments entirely but in any case may be near impossible to address because theres nothing there to go on.lets just have a closer look then shall we?um... ok. any specifics? anything at all? she might as well just have said no and be done with it.voted for.being raised and having failed is not a valid argument against an idea, unless appeal to authority is your thing. travel time really is the purview of warping and gates, but for the sake of argument does eliminating a few hours off the clone jump really drastically reduce travel time? indeed it might even be considered to be in keeping with the games direction. if using the second suggestion it doesn't change travel time at all objectively. i don't understand what this is referring to.so eric is really for it just not in this form. either that or he has no idea whats going on.she voted for.i'm of the opinion he has no clue what going on. the game has moved on from those days, we need a reason that has to to with the game that exist now not the one that existed 5 years ago.again supported but without a vote.what has this got to do with new players? if it's a skill then so what? new players also can't fly battleships, who cares? if it was granted to everybody then they get it too, just because its not as useful for someone new as opposed to some long timer is weak reason. a frigate is also more useful to an old timer then a newbie. could happen depending on how it was implemented, could also make things more interesting, this is very vague speculation at best.6-3 against 2 of those were unsure or would have voted yes in a different form and we don't have zastrows reasons for saying yes."
"the difficulty is there is no way to limit it to a player selling it to another player. what is to prevent a player from trading a character to a friend, changing the name, then trading back?"
"not supporting because i don't see any good, acceptable reason to change a character's name you picked/bought it live with it, that justifies the trouble of doing this and making other players deal with your aliases."
"1.0"
"and here i thought that all warnings could be turned off."
"/bump for implement...seriously"
"this key would only give out km information, useful for public killboards to auto-update as well as an idea that i have on the md forums. link here player made insurance"
"as much as i despise and abhor kill-mails and kill-boards.this would at least prevent me from having to hand out more than what is necessary to appease my alliance or some such.i suppose it wouldn't hurt.causal not so serious support."
"i support this idea - useful for automated services where you don't fully trust the system you are providing access to."
"supported because it's a good idea also it helps streamline the process and minimize the data harvest."
"i'm sorry, just wanna ask you a leeetle question here. have you ever tried to tank a hulk? seriously? assuming strip miners included, without mlus, i can get a good 30k tank if i use faction gear. non-faction, 24k w/ no mlus. including mlus, barely 13k. the proposed module would take up a lowslot, so let's look at one mlu. huh, 22k. i'm a bit shaky, but is it fairly easy to alpha strike through that with 2-3 catalysts?i find it laughable that you're pointing at haulers for your main beef. i've been burned by that exact scenario, myself. but there is no real way to protect a 160 mil ship from an essentially free catalyst. unless you have friends. who are bound not to defend you until you're fired upon, and even then you're usually screwed.i can't see how you can look at hulkageddon and hulkageddon 2 and still say that miners need no real boost."
"dumb hulk pilots not paying attention to local is no reason to get a \"super mod\" that will protect you from anything.and yes, i've flown a hulk with a tank.its good for killing af's & destroyers.and yes, my tanked hulk would survive 5 dessies suiciding it. wouldn't survive 5 thoraxes, however, and nor should it. you should never be 100% safe anywhere."
"sounds like that would be a good change.page 2 snipah"
"get out, ecm doesn't need another nerf"
"i like frigsi hate getting perma jammed by unbonused multispecs"
"ecm may not need another nerf, but it is still by far the most effective form of ewar and by far the most popular which suggests it is unbalanced. unless i am missing the target painter and damp whines.this proposal effectively strips away the jamming ships ability to get out of situations by jamming and then warping away. taking away using its ewar defensively is a huge nerf and does not balance with the other ewar as both tds and damps can be used to get out of situations. a fair module would perhaps make a ship immune to 1 ewar module (not counting webs/pts/scrams) so a ship is not immune but still much more resistant to ewar.i see no reason why a t1 trash frigate with one of the proposed modules should be practically immune to a t2 highly specialized jamming boat. changing the low slot anti-ecm from a percentage to a fixed number would solve your problem. but frigates are small and should be easier to jam, that is how it should be.no support for this, but would support a well thought out proposal boosting eccm or limiting ecm in a slight way. if this proposal went through, we would see a 3-4 month killing spree of ecm ships and then ecm ships would be rarely seen again. i would love it but it wouldn't be balanced or good for the game."
"current proposal would kill ecm .an alternative: the length of ecm jam is halved for every eccm (low or mid-slot) fitted as well as they recieve normal sensor strength boost they curently give."
"lower cycle time for ecm will be a buff especially against larger ships as their scan res is so small that they will be mostlikely jammed again before they aquired a lock after a failed cycle."
"you misunderstood me.you eccm will work like normal, but in addition to the sensor strength boost, you will be jammed only for half the time you will normally be jammed for. the time is halfed with each eccm module. that means, thst not only will you be ahrder to jam, each jam will have less effect on you."
"i like this idea, but then again i don't fly ecm.would mean people will stop brining ecm drones to 1v1s though, as just 1 low slot will make their drones useless."
"not really. as you still can get jammed by a 2nd drone. 2 drones -> jammed again. just the likeliness dropped."
"wat?second drone jams, and you still have 1 lock which is your main target."
"as far as i understood it, the module would just protect against the first jam. not against every. the way you describe it is even more overpowered and moves the idea close to the trashcan."
"problem summary: inactive (unpaid) accounts continue to be able to sell goods. this means that you can set 3 monthly sell orders on three alts giving you multiple thousands of sell orders able to sell over three months. this had a similar issue (ghost training) which was resolved a few years back.problem impact: done on a large scale, a person could have numerous accounts loaded with 3 characters each that produce a lot of isk. in itself this is not a problem; the problem is that the person could stop paying for the account and still continue to receive the income. typically, these accounts are dormant for around 9 months to a year, at which time the owner re-activates them every three months. earning billions of isk for the cost of a single gtc.this means that with a relativelly low amount of training a char is self supporting by making 100k isk every three months per sell order; which of course can be far far beaten. furthermore, ccp loses out on revenue by allowing this to continue. the solution: freeze sell orders for inactive accounts in the same way skill training is frozen."
"actually freezing them wouldn't solve anything, unless by freeze you mean delete, and even this could cause issues (what if they delete a market order in the middle of someone buying or selling on that order? data integrity violations are bad, mmmkay?).what they should to do is update the expiration date to reflect the appropriate date (maybe give them the same three day grace period that training has) and let them expire as normal at downtime on the supplied date. this acheives the desired effect with a minimum of fuss or disruption of the normal flow of the market.implementation aside, supported. as was said in the ghost datacore production thread, i shouldn't be competing against characters who are, in game terms, dead."
"that sounds reasonable. i guess having them stay in space forever is a bit overkill."
"i seem to be under the impression that it takes about a minute (40+ seconds) for a titan to get up to speed for the emergency warp (from a standstill). it moves at the impressive speed of 1.5 au/sec, so the current 1 minute situation allows pilots to log off and they will only be at the emergency warp destination for seconds before disappearing. it really does not take long to scan them down as they have an enormous sig, so the current time is fairly perfect. adding another minute to the timer won't help you though. titan pilots will simply resort to finding a distant ss, warping to that, then warping to the pos, while in warp, they would log off, thus adding more warp time to burn off the additional minute. there are some extremely deep safe spots that i have seen which would add several minutes of warp time to a titan's log off.the point is that adding another minute or even several minutes of time to the log off will change nothing for a titan that is not aggressed."
"this idea is dumb. if you want easy supercapital kills, go work for them like every other reputable group out there. next."
"seriously, eve needs more more symmetrical ships, and less of the \"hey, look at me, i took a pile of scrap metal, welded it together and smoothed it out, and this is called a ship.\"also, fix the ships that are near-but-not-totally symmetrical, like the megathron and the rokh."
"obsessive-compulsive disorder."
"this does not change the fact that it seems like most game devs seem obligated to annoy the living c*** out of some people."
"why? what is this compulsive need to have ships be symmetrical? what's next? you want all the stations redesigned so that they're all symmetrical too?"
"fire the artist that makes nothing but symmetrical ships please. fire him on both sides, evenly"
"not supported. ships don't need to be symmetrical.now gimme your stuff."
"ccp: hey you're a good artist, nice portfolio, we'll hire you. design us an unsymmetrical ship.artist: hey cool, alright here you go check that lopsided baby out. sexxxy.ccp: you're fired.artist: !! ??symmetrical artist: wtf?ccp: quiet butter-bean you're next."
"for this idea you deserve to be banned(ingame)."
"i personally won't mind if they fired the ****** of an artist after that fiasco of the ugly green jungle camo on the gallente navy ships.hell that ugly camo is the reason why the megathron navy issue went down from 550 million to 425 million on contracts.if i met the artist in real life i would make art out of his face with my fists."
"fix'd"
"i lol'd so hard mountain dew nearly shot out of my nose."
"1.0"
"simple. ingenious."
"it is time capital guns/launchers and repairers were introduced. edit: forgot to mention t2"
"uhm ... can you provide some more details for your proposal?"
"ummwhat?capital guns and launchers already exist, capital reps already exist. this is a confusing thread."
"do you mean anchorable pos mods... or something?"
"edit: forgot to mention it was t2"
"just so we get more whine how useless t2 ammo is?thanks no.and what do you want with scorch pulse revs? more whine about amarr being fotm. thanks no again!. :p"
"you have got to be the biggest troll on the forums. you are in every thread flaming. you should try playing the game you claim to know so much about.as far as ammo goes, i don't know, but because you are worried about people complaining about capital t2 ammo we should dismiss t2 capital repairers. you are nothing but a troll and your opinions are totally worthless.but thanks for the free bump!"
"i like to challenge ideas, especially when the proposal is as thin as this one.:) just in case you missed it, there are some ideas where i just hit the \"supported\" checkbox. have fun finding them. :)"
"this is a small suggestion i have and i haven't seen it in the assembly hall.we have a shortcut for locking onto targets, shouldn't we have a shortcut for unlocking as well?also it would be convenient if we can select multiple objects on the overview by using alt or shift so we don't have to consistently click a thousand times to loot a whole bunch of wrecks or cargo containers.i support my idea."
"i <3 shortcuts. moar please."
"definitely support..more shortcuts please."
"i think the paladin should have its bonuses fixed. at amarr bs5 it does 25% less damage than the abaddon and the nightmare beats it out at its relative bs 5. if you look at the other maruaders, they have their battleships skill give them a damage related boosts. so at bs5 the kronos and vargur has a 25% boost, the golem has a damage boost in regards to its 25% explosion velocity (makes torpedos more viable), the paladin has zero. it it only at marauders level 5, that it receives the same bonuses which requires more than a month and a million sp to do so. not to mention ccp seems to have given all the maruaders the same amount of cap (5625 gj) without factoring in for the ships themselves. the paladin has 33% less capacitor than its tech 1 counterpart the apocalypse (7500 gj) and it does not match up to it even with max skills (7032 gj) and it also does not even have reduction in cap use for laser than the apocalypse does. it may not be as much of a factor since it uses half the guns, but the kronos also has the same advantage and golem and vargur's weapons don't use cap at all. the paladin's capacitor should be increased to 7500 gj like the apocalypse, and have its cap bonus replaced. the other marauders have had their capacitor increased or stayed the same. it should be replaced with a tracking bonus that all other marauders receive. the golem gets a bonus to target painters which is like a tracking computer. both the kronos and the paladin has a fairly useless bonus to stasis to webifiers. blasters are not viable for missions which leaves only railguns for the kronos, and the paladin is meant to use tachyons and perhaps mega pulses, in which webifiers will do little for the ranges that they operate in. i propose replacing the stasis webifier with the bonus to range that both golem and vargur receive. current:paladinamarr battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to capacitor capacity and 10% bonus to the velocity factor of stasis webifiers per levelmarauder skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to repair amount of armor repair systems and 5% bonus to large energy turret damage per levelkronosgallente battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large hybrid weapon damage and 10% bonus to the velocity factor of stasis webifiers per levelmarauder skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to repair amount of armor repair systems and 7.5% bonus to large hybrid weapon tracking per levelproposed change:paladinamarr battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large energy turret damage and 7.5% large energy turret tracking speed per level.marauder skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to repair amount of armor repair systems and 7.5% bonus to large energy turret optimal range per level.kronosgallente battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large hybrid weapon damage and 7.5% bonus to large hybrid weapon tracking per level.marauder skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to repair amount of armor repair systems and 7.5% bonus to large hybrid weapon optimal range per levelthis will create a better balance between the marauders and allow them to get the same damage bonuses at the same amount of required skillpoints and time."
"the webbing bonuses are good."
"get out."
"does the kronos really need to be even worse? it still would lack the range on blasters for most missions, and considering i am now already using am 90% of the time extra range on rails wont help either. give it a normal drone bay."
"10% faloff range per lvl? could be usefullmaking blaster fire 50% further."
"not supported!!!!"
"mp rihanna, yes, i do apologize for that to everyone. i came here right after a petition was closed again after i reported a 23/7 macro miner and had \"the tude\" loli don't really have a solution and thats why i listed it as an [issue] but was hoping some discussions could help bring out one.nice link bunyip, ty"
"this issue is somewhat misunderstood in this thread.ccp found that the isk seller macros were in mission running and ratting, not mining.instead most mining macros are players who are only semi-afk, while most players you identify with your super powers as being macros are just people with a lot of time.the simple solution is to remove superfluous mouse clicking from time-sink features such as mining.time-sinks in eve have often revolved around extra clicking and mouse work. usually in a very repetitive way that is conducive to repetitive strain injury.adding the ability to setup a \"flow\" for mining including automated jetcan mining would vastly improve the usability of the feature."
"could you provide us with a reference to this? what i understood from bunyip, this is not the case.please tell me that i'm totally wrong - you want to have mining fully automated so that it takes a single button click to empty a belt?"
".."
"might be in a fanfest video or something.this isn't an absolute. eve can have time-sinks that don't involve constant clicking.i count myself as an idiot, i mine in highsec manually. from my experience doing this i can tell you that anyone following this approach is obviously masochistic.you then have the many players that have 3+ hulk characters for the occasional mining op, who obviously don't manually control each.there is a difference between a subscriber who can't keep up with the non-fun mining proceedure and an isk seller.eve has a mechanic that keeps the casual macro miner in check. if someone is macro mining near you, if you believe they've taken it too far, if you believe they are mining too many hours on too many days, if this upsets you, gank them."
"this isn't an absolute. eve can have time-sinks that don't involve constant clicking.i count myself as an idiot, i mine in highsec manually. from my experience doing this i can tell you that anyone following this approach is obviously masochistic.you then have the many players that have 3+ hulk characters for the occasional mining op, who obviously don't manually control each.there is a difference between a subscriber who can't keep up with the non-fun mining proceedure and an isk seller.eve has a mechanic that keeps the casual macro miner in check. if someone is macro mining near you, if you believe they've taken it too far, if you believe they are mining too many hours on too many days, if this upsets you, gank them.it is also against the eula so when i report a macro miner they should get investigated and if found to be guilty banned. saying i'm supposed to lose security status and my ship suicide ganking a macro miner because ccp won't do their job, which i've done part of it for them is plain silly. besides ganking a macro miner does nothing but put a tiny dent in their profits as they often have spare hulks in system after all what is a few hundred million when you are macro'ing it up 23/7? i also mine in highsec manually, though less and less because it is a pia and i'm getting sick of it, me and my 2 hulks and orca all of which i manually control. i'm playing by the rules we all agreed to, why is it okay with ccp that others don't and get to rake in the ore while they aren't even suffering through stupid mining cycles, oh that's right they aren't rmt so it is okay."
"as far as i can tell they are pretty random, though ccp has stated that they will not disclose thier procedures.i have seen 'obvious' macros persist untouched, and i have known people who were not macro miners permanent with no resource or defense.part of me suspsects it is related to if alliaces are beifiting. the only 'proof' i heard in the second batch of cases was 'a normal player has no reason to be making this much isk', which i am pretty sure if that money was being funneled into alliance ops it would be ok."
"this. that is why i love my hic. besides, if a titan hasn't already fired its dd and the fleet only brings 1 hic, they deserve to not get the titan kill."
"trollnot supported"
"wtf?why should some care-bearing douche in a player corp pay militia? why should some militia douche feel some how obligated towards whatever it is you want from them? why should anyone pay any tax outside of his corp at all? why should some inactive militia alt get cash? why should anyone get cash from a completely unrelated player \"just because\"?how on earth would this help militia, i mean beyond making it the most despised entity in the game (which would be tres cool imo)? also what you're suggesting would invariably involve a bunch of silly politics which militia is blessedly free from for the most part. and if not politics then exploits (perv's would be making billions within the week).this is a worse idea then the super-duper suitcase and that's saying something. btw you do realize that the new taxes are only on npc corps right? and that they are just about the right amount where they are now.(anyone have any idea what a \"stickier eve community\" means, cause it sounds dirty.)"
"i never used gtc, so i don't know the status quo. but as it seems to happen that pilots misjudge their remaining time, i support this proposal."
"has been raised and was accepted."
"post deleted.accidentally started duplicate topic to an already existing proposal"
"www.eve-search.com ftw.and you get this threadplease vote there instead of starting a new thread.(hell it was even on the first page in the assembly hall and you still didn't find it)"
"hii have resently been granted roles in my corp - trader, wallet and hangar access and some things occured to me.why only 7 tabs in a corp hangar? we could use more for sure. same goes for wallte divisions.the reason for this is that ppl in our corp likes to have small operations for smaller groups within corp. this is very hard without a seperate wallet division and minimum 1 corp hangar tab.also tabs in pos ship arrays would be awesome for security pouposesand finally tabs in the deliveries so if say 4th wallet division trader buys some stuff 6th wallet division trader can't nick it and leave corp. coz right now i can in therory take all deliveries in my corp and transfer them to myself.personally i'd like it to be a new feature but if it was ceo skill based that would also be ok.regards cm"
"delete"
"right now, a lar i requires 2000mw. this is far too high. meanwhile, a lrar i requires 600mw. this is far too low. combine this with the fact that people see safety in numbers, and you have an incentive to avoid lars.for what a lar is capable of, i believe 1200mw (40% reduction) is a fair base fitting requirement. following the established rules of remote repair modules requiring ~33% more fitting, a lrar would require 1600mw (166% increase), which would be an adequate base fitting requirement. these simple modifications would allow for ships to become self-sufficient, while requiring a pilot consider his own resources before blindly participating in an rr bs circlejerk.tl;dr - decrease all lar pg fittings by 40%, increase all lrar pg fittings by 166%. balance is achieved, rr bs blobs become less common without real teamwork (logistics)."
"most of the battleships that get fitted with lars have enough pg to do it properly, so i don't see a problem there. also, what is this crazy talk about remote reps using more fitting than locals? it's not true of large armor, large shield, or capital shield, capital armor is a mixed bag(half the cpu but 20% more pg than the local), and nobody cares about the others."
"it took a while, but after re-reading your post 3 or 4 times, i finally caught on. i had the idea that you were being serious, you even got me re-checking the data. successful troll is successful i guess.anyway, i still find it funny how every non-capital rr module uses a fair amount higher cpu and pg collectively than its local counterpart, except for lrar which not only has less requirements (for both, i might add), but significantly less.oh, and the capital rr proves how ccp don't know wtf they're doing.supporting this proposal, as i know it's either this or lrars requiring 75 cpu and 2800 pg."
"the problem with active tanking isn't that the ships run out of pg. local repair modules are far too inefficient to make them worthwhile and also cannot scale along with the fight.i don't see whats wrong with an rr bs gang. they are extremely slow, vulnerable to every type of ewar, and attract bomber gangs like flies.not supported"
"dominix buff local tank buff"
"tell that to the hundreds of 0.0 players in fleet fights"
"these missions generate more questions/support then anything else.the help channels are full of people that can't find the sites, have mined the wrong ore, can't trigger the objective etc etc."
"i think this is more of a pebkac problem than a ccp problem. you seem to be valueing your eve time over your family time. man up and take the hit. ccp can't justify spending all those manhours on something that isn't efficient."
"good rant. i share some of your sentiment but i often find comfort knowing that ccp really care about their game and listen to the players. i often feel like i don't even need to speak up because others will. thanks for speaking up!i hope you continue to play eve and learn to appreciate how awesome it is."
"hi,you can contact us anytime at evelopedia@isd.eve-online.com if a csm delegate gets in touch with me we can work something out. kind regards,eshtir"
"wow, i'm with the forums and stuff since five years - and still technology gets me ...sorry, i missed the replies here and started a discussion at one of the pages affected which i definitely wouldn't have done if i'd seen this before :(as isd salpsan took care of me at evelopedia, i'd like to continue the discussion with him, but i'm not sure which way would be appropriate. should the discussion at the wiki page go on, should i/we move to email, is it better located here? any hint would be appreciated.i hope you'll accept my apologies for any confusion i caused."
"hi, there is no need to apology. however you can resume your discussion with salpsan on the talk pages (yes i have also seen them) but he wont be able to talk to you on the forums.i posted here as i see there is a need to discuss this exact issue with the csm to find a solution that suits all of us. so if a csm delegate discovers this post, please contact me via evelopedia@isd.eve-online.comthank you!"
"thanks again, esthir :)watch out! wall of text ahead!he isn't able to participate as isd salpsan, i hope (so he could follow this discussion using his regular account)? i'd like to keep the discussion going on here as this place is (imho) \"closer\" to both the csm and other players possibly as confused as me.i think, i'll better get a nose of one of them and have it stuck in here ;) two former csm reps already \"discovered\" this thread and replied - indeed, i'm not pleased to seem me left alone by the current csm :/back to topic, according to what i understand from the council of stellar management page at evelopedia, proposals have a life-cycle: the proposal is raised in the assembly hall (no wiki page)it's being championed by a csm rep (new wiki page in category \"open issues\")it's either rejected (wiki page \"moves\" to category \"rejected issues\", implicitly) or accepted (wiki page \"moves\" to category \"issues in process\")if accepted, it's brought to ccp (wiki page \"moves\" to category \"resolved issues\")as far as i understand this, the simple fact of a proposal having been brought to ccp should make the page to be \"moved\" (or re-categorised) to the \"resolved issues\" category - disregarding any possible implementation by ccp.please let me know if i'm wrong here already.while strolling through both the pages in \"issues in process\" and the published minutes (both csm and csm-ccp) in order to verify my ideas were(n't) raised already, i found more and more issues that could be found \"in process\" already being replied to by ccp.as most of them (i didn't check all) seemed to be brought to ccp by the third csm, my first thoughts were like \"mkay, csm 3 probably simply forgot of it or expected csm 4 to deal with it while csm 4 is probably not aware of it\" but now i have the impression of a more general confusion regarding both the wiki representation of a proposals life-cycle and the responsibility of maintenance of the wiki pages.i consider the current situation as suboptimal, as it simply makes information gathering a real pain and keeps players from conducting a proper \"recherche\" prior to posting proposals (which in turn leads to necromancy and evil) and i doubt it being intended at all. as i tend to use the tools available, trying to make the best out of them and not waiting for others instead, i (still) intend to improve the csm wiki pages by both \"cleaning up\" (i.e. re-categorisation) and adding my own contributions (new pages with summaries, maybe a listing based on subject instead of status, etc.) however, this requires clear and distinct responsibilities (not only that i want to know what i'm allowed and supposed, the csm should be aware of it as well).as i couldn't find any public document describing maintenance responsibilities of the csm wiki pages, i'd suppose a decision has to be made - preferably collaboratively. while i (personally) would expect the csm to maintain these pages (they're created by csm, so they should be moved by csm as well), i'd also volunteer to do it as it'll take quite some efforts (i still want to get an overview of past and current proposals).yay, ncl!"
"bumpies"
"the more i look at this the more i seem to think that its not the dps/alpha/rof values that these weapons have problems with but its the operating ranges that seems to be the major problem.the root of this is that range is capped to 249km and that as someone said earlier (sorry no quote) it is far far easier to extend the range of these weapons than it is to increase the damage output.perhaps this is something that needs to be addressed. yes, i do mean nerf the range of beams and artysso in the end,artys = ultimate alpha strike but low rangebeams = best broad range dps but only upto moderete rangerails = ultimate range low dps/alphayes? no? flame?edit: oh and i agree a damage bonused ship should be able to out damage an unbonused ship at the similar range perhaps shortening the range of beams and arty will reduce their dps output at much longer ranges as they will be forced to fit less damage mods and more range mods"
"stop right there mate. don't you understand that even if you increase the range of the railguns beyond what they achieve now, it means nothing? the operating range of the fleet will be dictated by the least denominator, which in this case is the tempest with 140+72 km. so, it's optimal + 1/2 fallof= 176km. that's where the issue is. you have to balance every bs around that range, otherwise your efforts on railguns are null and void (pun intended). rokh reaches 194 km with spike, mega does 183 kms, therefore both need no more range. what they need is to be able to apply equivalent dps and/ or alpha with apoc and/ or tempest at that range.furthermore, as far as the tier 3 vs tier 2 bs comparison. i'd love to use a tier 2 caldari bs that is a turret platform. the only option however for caldari is the rokh, thus it needs to be fixed/ buffed, as well as the mega, since it is the bs which bonii lend themselves to fleet engagements."
"when you mention \"rails = ultimate range\" - did you mean \"rails\" or \"rails on sniper caldari ships\"? because comparing with gallente rail fits i do not see ultimate range difference. lasers can do 125% more damage at 90% range of rails on gallente ships.maelstrom 1400 - 30dps at 108+44 tremorabaddon tach - 38dps at 119+25 aurorarokh 425 - 24dps at 194+30 spikehyperion 425 - 30dps at 130+30 spike"
"the great part is that even besides the problem of the sniper mega the sniper rokh dosen't hold any signifigant range advantage due to the lock limit. falloff off and apoc's tachs can reach right up to the lock limit with damage competitive against the rokh. people seem to forget that if a weapon's system advantage is said to be range it must achieve top damage at that range instead of being outcompeted by the falloff of other weapons systems."
"i think rails need some help but i don't think this is quite right. 15% is a bit much, and i don't think cal boats need the extra pg.the cal boats need the extra damage, but the gal boats need the extra range."
"when we take a look at shortrange weapons blasters have the shortest range .. what if rails have the shortest range aswell but the most damage ? the rokh is still the ultimate sniper with lower dam than other ships but more dam than yet.gallente are hard to fit with this for 200 km but its doable. (fewer dam mods)rokh in monent 24 dps at 194 km + falloff .. i think 29 dps at 160 km + falloff is good enough to stay at the number one of snipers. there is no poit to get 50% more range then amarr or minmatar but 50% more range than gallente because of the same weapon system.raise dps 20% and lower range 20% could be usefull for this.gallente have an advantage from this aswell with rails without become uber."
"my first point was that range is capped to 249km.so, we want to homogenise all long range weapons? all long range weapons will operate similarly at the same range?same dps at same range?my point was that you can't have more range because of the range cap (249km, although you seem to have only read the first line of my post which said no to more dps and had a hernia) so reduce the range of the other weapon systems to create that range advantage and force laser/projectile users to fit less damage mods and more range mods. ergo... less damage at matching range and rail guns have the advantage at range.yes gallente pilots have no real sniper boat but that is gallente.i'm just offering a different solution to more power which is what people only seem to want. but no. you can't have ships perform exactly the same under exactly the same perameters (range). the game is designed so that ships perform better at different ranges not everyone does the same as everyone else in different shaped hulls."
"personal insults? i can do that too, but your suggestion denotes a lack of understanding of the engagements in which ships take part, so i will let that pass as ignorance instead of malice. i did read the entirety of your post then went and checked your engagement history (battleclinic). i realise that you operate primarily in low sec, using blasterboats and have little experience of sniperhac and bs fleets. what i am trying to do here is to impart my experience in the use of long range turrets bs and hacs in the environment they are primarily encountered. that's 0.0 fleet fights and roaming gangs. guess that's called balance, right?but to forestall you, i don't want my rokh to be another apoc or tempest with different skin. i want it to be able to compete to the apoc or tempest damage wise, be that in dps or alpha. at the moment mega and rokh lack in both those attributes when compared to the other 2 turret boats, so naturally i will push for a buff in the area they are falling behind, not in the area they are on par with the competition. 250 km locking range is 1) enough, 2) an issue ccp won't even consider touching and 3) not a limiting factor due to the performance characteristics of the ships in game.you are not the first one to do so. it was shot down repeatedly and the consensus was the +15% damage increase, +10% pg increase for caldari boats would be the most comprehensive, balanced and satisfying solution. so, nice of you to bring this idea, others tried it before you, unfortunately it's not going to work. my previous post gives all the reasons why it so, thank you.if you however believe that railguns do need a buff, do support this proposal."
"i apologise tagami for my minor flaming. i just thought you were getting your back up over my suggestion.however i disagree that weapons performance under similar conditions should be the same to create balance. my idea of balance is that one weapon system can do something another weapon can not but sacrifices something in return.the formular appears to be: long range = low damage + poor tacking high dps = shorter range + good trackingso in my view the balance would come in nerfing the range of lasers + projectiles to give rails a range advantage.yes i do not have experience in sniper fleets. my experience lies in the close to medium range combat.if the sniper fleet must fall to lowest common denominator of range, that would be the projectile users then the longer range rail users can use better damage ammo at these shorter ranges, or the projectile + laser users can sacrifice dps to get upto the range of the rail gun.would that not be balance with variation in game to play with or do we all want the same size stickj to hit each other with?"
"apology accepted.you do realise that would mean that rokh should be able to cn lead to the same range that tempest reaches with tremor? that's 50% increase in railgun range, which would be interesting to say the least. however, it would mean that eagles would only use am to snipe with and i doubt that's in favor of balance, but i'll take it. saves me the time to switch ammo. 300+ dps with 0.028 tracking @ 80km, sign me up... oh wait, that leaves the short range part of the engagement profile lacking. because you know, sometimes, fc calls for short range ammo, tracking speed scripts and fleet goes toe-to-toe. how does your proposal cover that situation?as i said, i am glad you understand that there is an issue, i am thankful for your suggestion, but as it does not take care of all the different scenarios (while the one i am putting forward does), i believe should not be considered.the thread i have linked at the beginning has a whole conversation between me and liang, where i explained the above to him in detail (he came to the table with the same suggestion). in the end he did capitulate and stood behind my proposal.go read the argument, just ignore the troll that tries to nerf everything down (you will also see the reaction to nerfing what is already considered balanced there expressed).cheers"
"first, for railguns to truly be of value, they should do something well. sure, people keep pointing out range. this is true for hacs, which is why i see no reason to boost mediums much if at all. large guns, however, are in the situation where most guns do damage at max locking range (250km). at issue is the rokh only does more damage than other ships in the narrow 230km-250km range. the gallente ships, on the other hand, are bottom of the barrel outside of their 0-10km blaster-ring-o-death. this includes rails at any range.so, if all railgun bss are subpar, it would be reasonable to assume it is the railguns that are lacking something.would it be nice to lift the max locking range? sure. would that make the rokh and apoc dominate all other ships in a fleet fight? yes. that would be worse than the partially balanced situation we currently find ourselves in."
"i've scanned through that thread and my head hurts. why use am charges at 80km in your eagle when you can sit outside the range of other sniper hacs. deal current dps values in a range envelope outside of other weapons systems. i believe range dictation and control is the real ideology of combat in eve. short range weapons can't hit outside of optimal + falloff and long range weapons struggle to hit targets moving with good transversal at short range. so most of your strategy is to dictate the range you engage at and prevent enemy fleets manouvering out of your range envelope (interdiction)you should still be able to perform at close range (toe 2 toe no quater) as rails will not have any of their stats changed. the only change made would be to beams/artys range in the form of a well placed nerf bat. and the only reason i say nerf is because of the 249 km cap on targeting range which i don't think should change."
"you are missing two major components to fleet warfare that make it significantly different than solo or small gang warfare.1. because a local tank is meaningless in a fleet fight, all ships have to stay in range of rr. usually this means 8km (rr bs) unless your fleet is blessed with an abundance of logistics pilots who have taken the monk-like vow and forsaken the way of the killboard for the path of near-thankless selflessness. which is to say sniper bs fleets stay in a tight ball 99% of the time. slightly different than a sniper hac fleet, which requires logistics. but, even then, an eagle is never really going to be pushing range much, simply because even a logi has a max rep range that you have to stay within.2. fleet warp. a longer ranged platform will constantly have to burn further out to get to your optimal range. of course, the fastest ships have the shortest ranged guns. however, there are more of them (because they do more damage) so fleets are dictated by the range that is best for most people, and that means 180km."
"and if beams and rails have their ranges nerfed they are forced to fit more range mods which sacrifice damage mods to get to this magical figure of 180km and then dps will start to look the same would it not?also if you want your longer ranged weapons to operate at their longer ranges after a warp in, instaed of burning away to get to this range why not have them in a different squad and \"squad warp\" instead of wing/fleet warp. give the squad commanders a bit more to do than just being a massive blob"
"because it takes 30-60 minutes to pull the fleet together as is. organizing it further, by range, would leave the fleet at the undock point for another 30 minutes while the fc moves people based on their ship - because you can't rely on the pilots to get into the right wings when they only have \"capital\" and \"support\" options, let alone \"capital\" \"170km\" \"200km\" 220km\". not to mention the range distribution is not even - leading to inefficient usage of the 256 pilot cap on fleets (means even more \"fleets\" to make the fleet). if fcs could move \"everyone flying an apoc\" in one move, this idea might be reasonable, but they can't.so, it takes too long and is less efficient than the current method for forming a fleet."
"always think of the lowest denominator. if you nerf ranges, the new operating range of the fleet will be the nerfed one. because you need a good number of people to break rr.for example, if the enemy jumps in our hac camp with 8 guardians as support, tickling him from 150km away does nothing. our gang needs all ships at approximately 80km, doing max damage hoping to break tank, before rr settles in. being further away gives no advantage, damage is needed. all the theoretical stuff you talk about have been put to the crucible of real game engagements and all data converge to the view i offer. if you want to see where i got my experience on fleet fights, you are welcome to come to 9uy-4. please do not view this as a flame, but it is not constructive to go up to a guy riding a gsxr-1000rr and tell him: \"i've never riden a bike, but i can tell you how to ride this one.\" you are pretty much doing the same thing here, sorry to tell you. ride tight, mate."
"sounds like a fellow gixxer rider. i would tweak the analogy a little though. just because you own and ride a sport bike, even if you are a weekend track rider, does not mean you could race on a superbike circuit. there is a huge difference between riding/racing by yourself and fighting for the apex through corners in a tight knot of bikes that all perform and are ridden differently.just because a mega is a wonderful solo ship doesn't mean it functions well in a fleet."
"less then that actually, at best 240-250km at worst 248-250km, falloff from a 230 optimal apoc covers up all the less then optimal usage of rails.no, it wouldn't as most fits already include 3x damage mods and reducing range alone dosen't change the base characteristics of the weapons. beam weapons just do more damage then rails, it's sorta their thing. also assuming there's no change relative to one and other rails would still have their entire damage ramp up to spike covered by tachyon falloff, only at optimal+ ranges would they have and advantage and then it would be marginal.what we're asking for here is that for 10km in either direction from it's optimal for their t2 range ammo both beams and rails should have top damage over other weapons systems falloff/t1 ammo. currently that exists for lasers through the entire gamut of ranges and for rails right around the lock limit, this has to come earlier and the only way to do that is some sort of damage increase, be it through rof or damage mod."
"this whole topic is a fascinating read. i applaud dav for calmly debating the topic in a logical fashion. i do agree with his argument and support the idea for a change. at least the kestrel gives a bonus to non-kinetic missiles, if all cmb's had that the problem would be solved. the rest of the caldari ships should either get a generic missile bonus or the rof bonus listed in the op, such as with the raven. makes sense to me."
"except the good caldari ships would become overpowered, and the bad caldari ships would still be bad, the problem would not be solved. more changes would need to be made to balance the newly (and in case of the drake, already) op ships. and also, changes to the actual ships themselves would still need to be made to make them worthwhile."
"you lot must really enjoy arguing just for the sake of it. 2.5% rof bonus."
"it is a reply about using 0.0 trade as an example of \"developed\" trade hubs.clear now?so breaking the high sec connection between empires has nothing to do with high sec?removing those routes is not forcing me to use low sec routes to trade? at least read the posts to wich i am replying."
"yep, and that is a problem, however, with the ideas in this thread and so on, maybe pirates can actually make some isk in lowsec too, and not by ganking carebears. though to be honest carebears usually have such failures of boats the drops are rubbish anyway, the most isk we ever make is from faction fitted pvp boats, capitals and killing pos's, and that is way out of carebear jurisdiction..."
"actually the idea was to maintain high-sec tunnels through low-sec borders.and i'm not the one with trouble understanding what it is you are replying to, you are. you cant seem to maintain your concentration past the post immediately in front of you.as for what you are replying to:in other words this is the way the argument is going:some-guy: it will help stimulate the economy.you: no, they don't have trade hubs out there because hubs are big.you've made the same argument with xxsketchxx. notice how what you are talking about has nothing to do with the topic at hand? notice that you aren't actually presenting any sort of coherent argument or case what so ever?"
"false. the post was about \"fragmenting high-sec\" and that don't include high sec tunnels. jib, maybe you missed it, but it is already possible to sell in low sec. simply for people that trade more that a few pieces it is not interesting as the buyers are too few.making it a bit more difficult to move between the empire will not change that in any way.no one will stop in low sec to buy the module he desperately need. pirates will still use alts to buy stuff in high sec at low prices, maybe in a regional hub instead of jita, but that would simply increase the size of the high sec regional hubs.0.0 people will still buy from a hub in high sec and cyno the stuff to 0.0 as ssoon as they leave high sec. can you give a real reason why fragmenting the empires would increase low sec trade?"
"drop the discussion, this isnt an argument thread, there are alot of ideas here, sop concentrating on the one that you dont like...it is an ideas thread, lets keep it at that. im not goingto delete out ideas because a few people dont like it.the idea here is to talk through ideas, you have had your say on what you do or dont like, now drop that and move on."
"the whole point of this forum section is to do just that. nitpick at proposed ideas, particularly bad ones that need more work.we both know no one will 'drop it'."
"improving low sec is a good thing. making it a middle ground between the mining/missioning of high sec and the sov wars of 0.0 would be perfect.this is a good idea as long as the flip side is also true. whereas outlaws can build their empire of drugs, sex, rock-n-roll, and piracy, the cuddly carebear lovers (affectionately known as anti-pirates) should also be able to build up something similar but opposite to the piracy boost."
"venkul you are a moron. there are a market hubs in npc 0.0. obviously they dont have jita prices. thats what you pay for by shopping in 0.0stop posting"
"amusingly enough, many 0.0 market hubs have prices that beat most high sec prices. it has to do with the number of players per station. 0.0 simply has a lot of players per station (except in cva space)."
"supported!"
"i really can't think of another game this popular that has so many sound problems and has remained popular! but out of curiosity, does everyone experience the same problems or only the unlucky few that have certain hardware devices? i'll show my support once more and send this to the top!"
"when a patch or expansion promised sound improvements, i turn the sound back on. however, the longest i've played with the sound on is a few weeks. the sound is off currently. this is the only game i have ever played with the sound off. if ccp is only going to half-ss sound, they're better off ignoring it entirely, as most players just keep it off.that said, sound is a key part of movies and games. there are other things more important, but at some point, i would like to play the game with the sound on."
"...sounds good to me!"
"change supported."
"supported"
"/signed and spreading the word! this looks solid!!!"
"if you do this , i need the auto targeter upgraded with following statsshot everything that is redshot evererything that is neuttarget everything that is blueonly shoot at frig size vessels only shoot at cruser size vesselsonly shoot at bs size vesselsonly target targets that broadcast shield or whateverat max lvl and with auto targeter ii: auto activate gunsthis make pvp much more easier"
"i would like a csm member to comment on this if possible please."
"okay. i didn't want to reply to this past my first and second posts because this counts as an \"unsupported\" post. damn forum mechanics. here are my blanket responces. \"omg omg let my guns do this i want to shoot without doing anything\".1. in 95% of vessels, drones are secondary weapons. 2. drones are robotic automatons. hence they can be programmed to do this stuff. 3. your guns cannot get you ganked, except in circumstances of pilot error. if i am in a mission with my drones out and a player comes in and attacks me, and my drones hit him once (without having been told to do so), that player's corporation can now kill me totally avoiding the logic that a player's actions should render him vulnerable to engagement. \"omfg afk mining bots zomg\" 1. this changes nothing. warp in, sequence 10 targets for drones only, go afk is identical to, warp in, lock 5 roids, send one drone on each. if my proposal is implemented, afkers would have to come back in what, 18 hours instead of 9? how long does it take drones to chew through 5 roids or 10 roids? the difference means nothing. 2. anyone who is mining in a ship with 5 drones = small cargo bay, or you are in an orca. changes nothing. \"drones should not be fire and forget zomg\" 1. they already are. all missions available in high sec can be tanked if you do it right. warp in, pop the spawn triggers, launch drones, go afk. this proposal merely refines drones within bounds a that a. prevent mechanics allowing players to gain kill rights on an afk pilot and b. are logical in relation to current drone operation and ingame rp technology.\"omfg this would make drones inbalanced\" 1. maximum drone dps (not inc rigs) = 475. that's 5 heavies. currently four sub-capital ships ingame can handle that. dominix hull, rattlesnake, ishtar and gila. you can get 971dps off a maelstrom. 2. drones have disadvantages too, flight times (optimal ranges for sentries), their ability to be destroyed without damage to the parent vessel.overall this proposal adds functionality and does not imbalance drones, it is logical and believable within ingame roleplay technology and overall just makes drones easier to use and more fun. post will be updated with the next batch of \"omfg drones are too powerful\" or \"zomg i don't want to lock targets\" people. cheers for the support everyone!"
"many good ideas in this one."
"the hel seems to have been overlooked when the slot layout of the nid was changed some years ago from 5/6/5 to 5/5/6 meaning those nid pilots looking to upgrade have to train shield skills (although any minmatar pilot at that level who doesn't have them already should probably end his life).either give the hel more shield hp (and possibly revert the nid to its original slot layout to give minmatar a full line up of caps geared towards shield tanking) or do as the op suggested."
"agreed."
"then ccp can at least switch the slot layout to 6/6/6. hey, if minmatar really are supposed to be the \"flexible\" race, doesn't a 6/6 mid/low setup make a lot more sense than 7/5?"
"\"if you want a super tanked aeon . buy an aeon .\"i agree that the hel needs to be looked at . but in the slot layout that the op is proposing your saying that it should loose 1x mid slot in doing this it would take the hel away from being an shield carrier to an armor carrier, why are we changing every ship in the game to fit the flavor of the month and not actually fixing the problem that they have maybe just leave the hel as a shield carrier and give it a better bonus . leave the ratio at 2x shield taking super carriers and 2x armor tanking ones maybe just bring shield tanking back in line with armor as has been debated for ages minmatar are a bit of this bit of that race as i was always brought to believe look at their other ships one armor tanked one shield why shouldn't the carriers be the same . and if its the whole debate of oh well i trained armor repping for my carrier so if i get a hel i cant be ass'ed training for shield now thats just crap \"one less slot to main tanking ability from carrier to super-carrier\" the slot layout seems to be correct with your formula considering it is a shield carrier ... current slot layout for the niddy is 6 lows 5 mids 5 highshel is 5 lows 7 mids 6 highs so givin that the hel is shield tanked . and the niddy is armor tanked . the slot layout looks correct givin that it has 1x more slot for tankingi guess short is , i own a hel i'am happy with most everything with it only thing i'am not is the bonus which could be way better i think i remember seeing when they first wanted the change that it gave drones a 5% bonus to hp that will do id be happy with that"
"fyi hel is a shield tanker. the 8 fold increase in shield is kind of a dead giveaway.but nonetheless the minmatar and caldari supercaps are in need of some work because they are severely lacking in the ehp department."
"this.i don't mind minnie being shield tankers (2 armor and 2 shield tankers is how it should be, imo) :/"
"in theory, there might be some reason to worry about the minnie caps splitting their tank types between shield and armor, but in practice the skills are dirt-easy ever since they took off the tsm 5 req for cap shields. i see no need to sync up on either shield or armor, and it seems \"more minmatar\" to be weird and confused. the one area where the hel does need a boost is in the bonus. a rr bonus is fine for the nid, because the nid is a pretty cheap ship(at least, by capital standards) that will get used in fleet for its rr. the hel is quite expensive, and its high slots will generally be dedicated to things that definitely aren't rr. thus, it ought to lose the rr bonus and gain something more useful. i don't know exactly what - drone speed? ecm burst cooldown? bomber explosion radius? shield hp? - but it needs a useful bonus. other than that, i see no real need for a change simply because op doesn't understand that it's a shield tanker."
"thank you sokratesz, we now have a very firm grasp of the obvious.but just because something \"is the way it is\" does not mean it should be. the hel is vastly inferior to its peers and incomprehensibly usless.viewing super-carriers as \"two shield tankers, two armor tankers. makes sense\" is so flawd on so many levels its painful to comprehend that someone might even concieve or, heaven forbid, begin to entertain that idea. too many examples exist in eve where same catagory ships do not have a similar split of armor / shield tankers across the four races.the nidhoggur is used for as an armor tanker. why, if the hel is branded as the \"burlier version of its carrier counterpart [niddhoggur]\", is the hel not an armor thanker?if the prospect of the hel being a dedicated armor tanker is too alien then, as someone else stated earlier, minnie are supposed to be \"flexible\" but not \"the best\". as such, maybe the idea of a 6/6/6 layout with equal armor & shield hp would be a suitable middle ground at the very least.and in closing, apologises for the roasting but i do thank you for taking your time to read and reply to this post.regards,groot"
"it's nice to see the discussion started with a objective comparing between the super carriers. i'm in favour of the hel being changed and support the 6/6/6 lay-out as it gives room for shield and armor tanking, but no excelling in either like the aeon and wyvern."
"yes~!"
"\"viewing super-carriers as \"two shield tankers, two armor tankers. makes sense\" is so flawed on so many levels its painful to comprehend that someone might even conceive or, heaven forbid, begin to entertain that idea. too many examples exist in eve where same category ships do not have a similar split of armor / shield tankers across the four races.\"\"i\" personally would like to think that the idea of 2x armor and 2x shield tankers is part of something which is eve . i would like there to be 2x titans that shield tank and 2x that armor tank ( not sure if there is this already as i don't have one ) what i like about eve is the fact that when i first started playing the game came across to me as nothing was so super powered and something could beat everything kind of a rock paper scissors mental . and instead of making everything the same make it strong in its own right .. a 6/6/6 slot layout is interesting tho i don't think that would really advance the point of your original topic making it a tiny bit better at armor tanking but a lot less worse at a shield tanker :/ making it worse overall. to make a good tank in a capital i will step on a ledge and say you need at least 7 slots for its respective tank to give it 1 less in both means it can do both but none good.a shield tanking hel brings out what the minmatar are known for diversity all their ships are not both armor and shield tankers but are a mix of both instead of saying amarr are armor tankers . gallente are armor tankers and caldari are shield tankers with those 3 races you can train only armor tanking for amarr and spec up with all their ships without need for training shield and only train shield for caldari with no need to train armor but minmitar have ships for both armor and shield"
"supported"
"the 50/50 shield/armour philosophy is fine and ccp has been pursuing it with reasonable success (see: new nag). the problem with shield supercaps is firstly the lack of a slave set-equivalent, second the lack of decent gang bonuses and lastly the suckage of the hel's and rag's base stats.i don't think making it 6/6/6 would help it much, it would make it worse in both aspects than if they kept it 5/7/6 and fixed its base hp instead. i'd rather have them fix it in its current form than re-do it totally for the sake of a few people neurotically dedicated to armour buffer fitting everything in sight."
"so are you stating here that you fail to see the consistency between all the other caps and how that isn't reflected in the hel?i achnowledge we both agree on one fact, that being the hel does need revamping. however, we disagree on how it should be done.to claim people are \"neurotically dedicated to armor buffing everything in sight\" in the context of this thread is alarming. i would ask you to elaborate on this point, so please feel free so to do.as for the slot configuration, 6/6/6 would be far from optimum but its to prove a point that something does need to be done.regards,groot"
"also boost wyvern ,it only has as much ehp as the nyx , less dmg and no point."
"yes to a 'better' hel, but no to an armor buffer hel - if there needs to be consistancy across the line, arguably it'd be better to switch the nidhoggur to a shield tank instead.as already stated, the main issues with the hel is that you can't plug in a slave set equivalent to boost your buffer like you can with the armour focused supercaps, that the shield bonus from a leviathan in-gang has to recharge up on every session change unlike the erebus' instant armour bonus, and that the other shield tanking mothership has an extra midslot and a shield resist bonus and slightly more base shield hp, in exchange for one less lowslot ('who cares') and a remote rep bonus ('who cares'). switching the slot layouts of the hel and wyvern might help balance those two ships relative to each other (although the cries of despair from the caldari pilots would be audible for thousands of miles), but that wouldn't fix the underlying issue of armour buffers/tanks being simply better."
"people failed to shield tank the nid even though its slots were geared for it, so they whined, and had it changed, but still a shield tanked nid outperforms an armourtanked one (same for thanny btw). hel is made for shieldtank, and it needs fixing as such. no need to force it into the 'armour buffer everything' doctrine."
"i was promised manlove in exchange for my support."
"supported for a more flexible hel"
"if you've ever been in a spidertanking carrier fleet, you know how ridiculous this sounds."
"like it or not he's right. even with five mids a thanny/nid can go 2x invuln and em, a booster and sb/point/eccm and have similar resists to a triple eanm fit but with the advantage of being a lot more cap stable (hello cprs)."
"wins my vote. those bombers are slow. minmatar ditch useful things like dps and uniform tank so they can make things faster (better agility, top speed, and alpha strike for quick kills). even their drones are faster across the board. it should follow that their focus would be to give their fighters the ability to actually get in range to attack mwd bs and their bombers the ability to get to launch range faster."
"what are you talking about? people who want to lose carrier fleets shield tank their capitals."
"care to justify that?"
"agreed and supported"
"the fitting management window is awesome.you know what would be even more awesome?if i could fly to a market hub, select one of my personal or corp saved fittings, and click a 'buy all' button to get the hull and all modules/rigs drones/ammo straight from the market without having to dig through all the market categories buying everything seperately. you'd need a 'checkout' pop-up to give you the total price before you confirmed the payment, i guess, but it would make buying and fitting ships so much less hassle if it was a 2-click process."
"obligatory 'support my own proposal' post goes here"
"the impulse buyer in me just squeeeeee'd.i like the checkout part. might be a good idea to add checkboxes beside each item to deselect overpriced parts, or ones you already have on hand."
"yep, that's sensible too. might also work to have 'buy missing items' as an option after you click the 'fit' button so that you can use it to fill in the gaps."
"yes please, i can also suggest buying the closest mtalvel item avaliabl"
"switching to the next meta-level could be a problem as some fittings are often tight on resources and using a different meta level module with (say) a higher cpu requirement may result in breaking the fitting, but yeah, its an option too."
"yes please!"
"the rokh is even worse off than the hyperion when it comes to pg. the rokh does have its sniping ability which gives it a niche/role to excell in even though this is debatable with the failure of railguns and the power of frikkin' lazors.the hyperion is a ship that desperatly needs to be revisted and a larger bonus to active tanking would help.people who say that active tanked ships will become 'invulnerable'..... please, have you ever neuted/been neuted an active tanked ship? they have no buffer and as soon as that capacitor dries up the ship is dead."
"tank doesn't need a buff, we've done that once before, thanks. buffer tanking needs a nerf."
"alright, now i see what you meant there. ok.although, wouldn't it make these ships much more powerfull when running missions and stuff? although, i still don't think they will match up for the raven anyway, but it is something to take into account."
"even with overload/drugs and full resistance mods i don't see the active tanking bs's gaining more than 100-150 dps tanked out of this and that sounds like a healthy improvement to me.i will support this but i think any improvement to tanking requires a look at station hugging and rring in terms of aggression."
"i can only support that."
"supported"
"the 7.5% active tank bonuses are useless as you state for rr gangs.how does your solution fix this ?7.5% to active tank and 7.5% to buffer hp would be a better solution imo.enabling players to fit more resists and less hp for rr situations rather than simply boosting there soloability which is not the problem for these bonuses."
"sov bills in dominion is an important factor in nullsec space distribution. in order to reduce their sov bills, most nullsec alliances only claims systems where strategic upgrades and stations are needed, leaving most of their space officially unclaimed, but not politically claimable either by another alliance.in order to encourage these alliance to either exploit this space, or to welcome pets alliance in their space, i have a proposalintroduce \"constellation sov\" and \"region sov\", the dominant alliance of a constellation or a region, as displayed in the sov dashboard, has officially the sov of the constellation/regionthe alliance who has a constellation sov pays for half of the price of the claim (tcu onlining) on unclaimed systems in the constellationthe alliance who has a region sov pays for the other half of the price of the claim on unclaimed systems in the whole region"
"not sure how this encourages either of the things you say it would. wouldn't it be more likely to make the dominant alliance prevent any other alliance from claiming sov in 'their' region or constellation (since the dominant alliance would be lumped with half of any sov bill)?"
"the situation now is :big alliance owns x regionsbig alliance pays sov for stations/jumpbridges/hubs/stragegic systems big alliance leave pockets/transit systems unclaimedbig alliance effectively has influence on the whole region, for a fraction of the sov billthey do not need to pay, they do not need to let other people live in these unclaimed systems.with this proposal :big alliance pays the minimum price for all the systems within their sphere of influencein order to reduce their sov bills, they must either exploit these unused systems, or rent this space to other people, as dominion was intended to workthey can also assume the cost of these sov bills, if they do not want intruders in their space.it is only an incentive, and a fix, as the intended mechanic of dominion was alliance to pay the more space they have influence on."
"dominion failed miserably at opening up null-sec to smaller entities and something has to be done to curtail the \"gun-nut neighbour\" strategy used to claim unoccupied space.if you want to hurt the large alliances on their wallets make them pay for the unused space.example: constellation has 5 systems, region has 5 constellations.if alliance holds sovereignty in 2 or more systems and no other entity is present, alliance pays for entire constellation regardless of presence of tcu's.if alliance pays for 2 or more constellations and no other entity is present, alliance pays for entire region regardless of presence of tcu's.that would get expensive really fast and forces alliances to either invite others or occupy smaller developed areas.create benefits to having actual sovereignty in all systems in a constellation to make it even more attractive to develop ones space."
"of course, people can find ways around it, like owning the \"border\" constellations in two different regions. this would cause the universe to shift sov-wise in terms of regions even if they're named differently. constellation-wise, owning less then the cutoff will just encourage bigger alliances to get more space to cover the systems lost in order to be under that cutoff point."
"if im right im not sure this would work.why would an alliance want to pay more money on more systems they dont want. most dont even want pet alliances or renters anyway.alliance would have to pay 50% of a system they never wanted sov in anyway. which monetry wise is a loss. even if the renter paid half its not going to the alliance, and infact the renter would benefit more as they only need to spend 50% of the amount required.to put it simply most alliances dont want to rent their space anyway, they want it for themselves, they dont need to sov all systems they just need the stations which effectively gives them control over the region. so they are not going to pay for systems and renters they dont want.now dominion as settled in a little, i actually think its a case of the rich get richer, big get bigger and others well tough sh*t.."
"alliances do not want to pay for space they don't use, but they do not want people to come in this unclaimed space either, as this is a bother. they can't have both, they must choose between paying sov, or have people in their spaceif they let a neutral alliance settle in their space (if nrds), they won't have to pay for the sov, as it is claimed, reducing their sov bills. if a red alliance settle in their unclaimed space, they will probably kick them out, because it is a threat, but then they should have been claiming sov on these systems (and paying bills). cf provi/catch war.either pays sov, or have someone pay it for you"
"so because you are too weak to claim the space you want to punish others for leaving unclaimed systems?"
"i would suggest : remove local from unclaimed systems. so they cant gather free easy intel anymore from space they do not pay for.they want to leave a free pocket of space = security risk."
"if they are too weak, they should find allies, or do not claim sov at all.dominion is not intended to have your 100 man ally to have independant sov. it is intended to make bigger alliances welcome smaller alliances in their space to support the sov bills (and it has failed to do so, but it has sucessfully pwned goons)"
"thats an interesting concept actually...on the other point, so your saying that every system must be claimed in one way or another? the problem is and always has been that smaller corps/alliances wont even venture into that space anyway for the fear of getting blobbed.dominion sadly hasnt made it easier, sov really isnt that important its about being able to live in 0.0 without too much aggro. i mean, if you want to live in 0.0 build a pos and live out of that. the problem is firstly the blobbage to kill you and secondly logistics, you have no access to stations, and thats important and fundamentally the problem.large space holding alliances now now they dont need to hold sov in every system anymore, people are only interested in the best moons systems and the stations thats it.. thinking about it im not sure why people claimed sov before in systems they didnt need..."
"this would be far too easy a system to game. i don't see it working well at all. getting rid of local in unclaimed systems, and making it optional on the part of the owner in claimed systems, might work, but that's only a maybe. but an automated method of sticking people with bills for systems they don't own or want to own? i doubt it."
"sort of like the current, dominion system, is far too easy to game. the problem is that even though it is in the best interest of individual players in an alliance to hold a tight corner of space that builds up the infrastructure level in each system for maximum profit per hour of whatever your favorite money making method may be (okay, it may not benefit scamming), it is in opposition to the best interest of the alliance as an entity. moon gold remains spread out, so alliances continue to hold a wide swath of systems because the moon gold is what they want. until there is a money making device, that promotes less sov sprawl, for the alliance entity that benefits alliances more than moon gold, you will always have alliance sov sprawl."
"great idea.make local an expensive system upgrade for claimable 0.0 (leave local in npc 0.0)"
"while i don't really support this suggestion i will say if ccp ever even considered this action then there must be a public record associated with the character that the name was changed.if for example under employment history there was a name change statement including a ccp notification of the character being transfered to a new account.i still don't think this has much likelihood of occurring as, mentioned before, reputation is king, and i doubt ccp want to deal with a whole lot of previous name entries for 1 character."
"supported"
"the thread in question, supports welcome :"
"yes"
"if only to reduce the load on the login server... thing."
"the entire purpose of adding the meta column was so that it could be sorted. the csm has already brought this up, and ccp has already said it will happen. there's no need to ask again."
"partially due to the lag issue and partially because it makes a bit of sense. my idea would be to create scannable beacon that were placed throughout the system where sbus are anchored. these beacons would appear in random location in the system and would have to be scanned down. an alliance would then anchor the sbus around these locations instead of at the stargates. the sov mechanic would not have to be changed much as there would be equal number of beacons as their are stargates in the system and 51% percent would have to have sbus onlined at them for sov structures to become vulnerable, etc etc. this would add a few more locations in a system for battles to take place and may help (a bit, maybe) to reduce the problem of the session change lag that occurs when too many people jump through a gate with too many people on the otherside (or at least until ccp fixes the problem.)"
"won't work for one reason: the gates will be camped anyway."
"yeah, having limited and full apis for corporations as their own entities, instead of running everything through directors personally, sounds like a good idea to me."
"oh god yes"
"without any more details, i couldn't support the idea no matter that it seems to be a good one. additionally, i doubt it'll make it to the csm that way.op, please update your proposal with more details. have a look at the csm wiki pages to get an idea of what degree of detail is considered appropriate by the csm."
"supported.what more detail do you need? both the api system and the killlog.xml already exist. we are just asking for a new api key which gives access to only that api xml."
"now im not one to complain, usually, but this needs to be addressed.something i think should be done for hostiles to log in cloak up and go afk for the rest of the day in someone elses sov space, yes it makes it a great tactic, but sov bills and sov space is for a reason now, and so should allow us to either probe them out like a perfect example of a no longer used module that would make this awesome was the system scanner array. which ccp has deemed unnecessary now and what this module could have done for instance is:enemy cloaker enters space, cloaks up goes afkhave a time period that allows them to be scanned out lets say 3 hours of cloaking then a module or something requiring sov can scan them out while they're cloaked.3 hours go bygoto said module, scan said cloakerwarp in and remove unwanted personel from system.part of dominion i believe was to make sovable space more secure aswell as enable possiblities for political shifting.currently how it is:enemy cloaker enters system.enemy cloaker warps, cloaks goes afk while he/she has to work or go afk or what ever.enemy cloaker comes home, desides to do a black ops hot drop, finds a vulnerable target, hot drops black ops fleet.kills targetcloaks up againall this and not one thing the defending team can do about it.further more, as when cyno jamming and such was first brought in, yes long time ago, and then black ops and black ops cynos were brought in they could not access cyno jammed systems.they changed it now that they are able to access jammed systems but capital ships are not.this is 100% fine, but there needs to be something done to make defense in these situations of afk cloakers easier. this also will make sure pilots are always \"active\" or safe when goign aroung afk, and there for making them interact with the game more, in my mind this is a great idea and i wanted to bring it up."
"to support my own topic aswell as add that this was recently brought to my attentionanother fix would be a timer on the cloak module"
"and yet your entire post is that..one big complaint about a mechanism which utterly confounds you even though there are incredibly simple yet effective countermeasures. cloaking is fine."
"not support. cloak is fine.grow some balls and bait them. 0.0 carebears best carebear, and we got our weekly proof."
"what you just described here in great detail is a perfect example of guerilla warfare. i don't see anything wrong with that.welcome to post 1042 about afk-cloaking, polls say the number of support posts will be low."
"/signed"
"absolutely no support.edit: oh, and nerf local."
"grow a backbone nooblet./me not supporting."
"that's hilarious.no support.(oh, and buff local)"
"htfu"
"this, basically. nothing more to be said."
"i would like to propose that anyone who proposes this in the future be immediately perma forum banned"
"what happened to the hamsters? where are our semi-periodical yarrdware reports?i want them back!as many might remember, there was a time when ccp (namely legendary ccp oveur) provided us with tasty reports of stunning yarrrdware, busy hamsters and all-brand-new-shiny stuff that instantly made any nerd drool.i want them back!it's good to know oveur being busy with another game, but i definitely miss these reports and the effect they had on me :dso please, please, please: ccp, provide us with reports of ramsans, extremely powerful blades and other nerdstuff of that kind!"
"since super-capitals are now very much front line weapons, chances are they will die sooner rather than later .. so the whole \"intended risk\" bit is moot even though i highly doubt the statements validity.not only do super capital pilots have to pay through the nose to get the damn things, but as you said they have to pay for a second account just to park it .. i would say that is more than enough drawback.not supported."
"the artists are plenty capable of making symmetrical ships. they just choose not to, to annoy you. i don't necessarily like their art direction, but firing people for it is absurd."
"not that i don't support the absurdity of this proposal......but seriously? who the hell came up with ships like the imiscus and dominix? or how about the griffin? there are a lot of really ugly ships in eve."
"i was ****ed off after the horrid job they did on the paintjob of the navy dominix and megathron.not only does the camo look ugly and does not make sense, its poorly done. you can clearly see that a bunch of eve players can make a much better looking paintjob.ccp would make more money if they got rid of the ugly paintjob on their megathron."
"it irks me more to see spaceships with wings than asymmetrical ones."
"this seems to obvious to not be included in game......."
"really useful.(edit: the topic is somewhat misleading though...)"
"fully agree.supported"
"i propose that sale of ore/minerals/gas is taxed at the same rate as mission/ratting rewards. the first 5% of tax going to concord with the remainder going to the players corp (including npc corps). having 5% minimum tax ensures some value is lost even with a corp tax rate of 0%.this tax would only apply to raw materials, not manufactured product.i feel that this tax would offer the following advantages:create an incentive for manufacturing which avoids the tax.create more opportunities for corp teamwork through industry.enable corps to gain income from a wider portion of their membership (not just ratters and mission runners and donations).i see it having the following disadvantages:reducing the income of miners. althought i would expect the market will adapt to an extent, raising the value of minerals to compensate, as miners seek higher prices and as more finished product is sold rather than raw materials reducing the quantity on the market.makes trading in raw materials unviable unless there is a huge cost differential across regions. trading in manufactured products would still be viable. manufactured goods can be reprocessed and remanufactured avoiding paying the tax."
"so basically, your proposal is to force people to play the game the way you want them to play? no thank you."
"this. also corps working together will always out perform lonewolves. be it combat, trading, mining or manufacturing. there are no needs to boost anything in that regard."
"not to mention being a strictly mining corp suddenly becomes a lot harder.not supported."
"not supported.we already pay market fees on our orders.corps earn isk from their missioners and get minerals, ice, and new ships from their industrialists. both sides contribute to the well-being of the corp according to the desires of the individual players involved. a corp that believes that a given player is freeloading can resolve the issue by removing the freeloader."
"after the last update, i lost all my ship fitting files.a year and a half of game play lost.pettion = sorry our fault, a adimission of fault. i feel that i should be reinbursied for my loss. one month of game play seems fair. they said to put it in local forum. so here it is. do you think i should be compensated. thanks zarcon3"
"i was told before if i can't say anything nice not to say anything at all. i got it half right i guess...."
"no . there's an export option now if they are important back them up"
"you did export them right?changes to rigs and amarr navy -> imperial navy messed a bunch of my saved fits up, but heh can't say i every seriously used the in game fittings. plus i have all my ship fittings + dozens more backed up in eft."
"you lost all your saved fittings, and need compensation???.. how does that even make sense?i can understand the annoyance of having to replace the ship fittings, but as chainsaw said, it's always a good idea to have them in eft anyways :/"
"obvious troll is obvious"
"because he got a (undeserved) response on his petition? because the petition's response said it was a fault on ccp's end? or because the petition's response did not mention backing up the files?"
"because only an idiot or a troll would demand compensation on the forums.i'm giving him the benefit of the doubt.seriously - he lost his saved fittings and this represents a year and a half's playing lost? how does that work exactly?"
"i demand a months free of game time for having to suffer this ridiculous idiots proposal.oh wat...."
"if we go on a mission ad we destroy the enemy can we be allowed to acquire their bases like we would as if it were cargo from a ship we destroyed>"
"you're talking about the poss in missions? errrr... no. first, that pos is worth more than hours of mission running (many are pirate faction towers). second, you can't unanchor active poss.if anything you should be doing an non-stop happy dance because the devs decided to not allow the mission poss to shoot back at you and gave them only a fraction of the hitpoints and resists."
"fully supportetimprove the flow of information"
"the ticker in stations would be a great idea and would give the isd's something to have fun with, as well as giving those who like that sort of thing a reason to become isd. a mix of localized stuff and eve-wide/regional stuff on the ticker would be a nice touch, as well as a mix of important in-game events and immersive story stuff (like the stories on the character startpage)even a ticker with a short summary from the current startpage stories would be a good start."
"definitely an idea with a lot of potential."
"capital t2 gear is pointless. what, are you going to mount t1 guns on a dread? it's not a serious option. you just increase the standard, you don't actually change anything. caps are standardized, and that's a good system."
"cant support the t2 idea but what about the addition of faction capital weapons?"
"capital t2 weapons, tank and fighters, well why not. more highend stuff to build if anything and a lot of people that will cry that they need to get capital stuff lvl 5 trained."
"something to the effect of target all frigates, target all cruisers, target all wrecks...etc etcsounds like a good idea :)"
"10/10 troll - you managed to make several obvious errors(paladin doesn't have a dps bonus, paladin doesn't have a laser cap use bonus), make multiple ludicrously false assertions(web bonus is bad, other bses should have as much cap as the apoc), and proposed buffs to the single best mission ship in the game. and yet, multiple people bit. masterful job."
"edit: now that's a new one - a double post five hours apart. stupid 5-minute timers mixed with afkness..."
"i cba to train marauders past 3, so more damage yay! also haven't fit a web to it in ages.make it like a nightmare + stupid optimal bonus i like it also lets give tachyons +50% damage, and some blaze crystals, tachys are supposed to be oversized guns! as for the kronos it sure could use something. how about this:kronosgallente battleship skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to large hybrid weapon damage and 7.5% bonus to large hybrid weapon tracking per level.marauder skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to repair amount of armor repair systems and 7.5% bonus to large hybrid weapon optimal range per levelmoar kronos damage!"
"paladin gets over 1000dps, kronos gets barely into 800. why are you whining like a girl?edit: rails need to be fixed, the marauders are fine."
"all the asteroid belts in alenia were wiped out by 2 hulks today."
"**** it, just go suicide gank them."
"similar situation here."
"unfortunately, many eve players seem to have developed a strange disorder that i ofter refer to as \"sandbox veteran syndrome\" - simply put, the \"balancing\" and \"down-scaling\" of skills in this particular game are often seen by veteran players (particularly those of us from 03-05) as attempts to placate newer players who complain about both the training and learning curves associated with eve, but let's face it - balancing is something that every mmo goes through and we'll probably see a lot more of it here. no one in wow has complained that blizzard has made the leveling process faster, provided more end-game treats to new players as time has gone on (mounts now available at level 20), and so on, primarily because wow veterans use these new features to train their own new characters. but eve isn't like that - your main (if it has been your main since you started playing) is usually your only active main and the toon's reputation, performance, political associations and buddy list have far more meaning and impact than they do in a game where you can change your name, race, faction and server for a few bucks in between mindlessly grinding for better gear.so i do understand some of the frustration, however...i have absolutely no issue with training a specific skill at 5, then finding out that the same new skills can be unlocked at 3. why would i? no, i did not waste my time training that skill to 5, because i have a 5, whereas someone new will only have 3 and will probably never train beyond that, thus decreasing their overall effectiveness down the road. no level 5 skill is ever \"wasted\". in fact, only training skills to the bare minimum required to unlock new skills is one of the worst things you can do, because you can fly t2 subcaps with level 1-3 skills ... but i wouldn't recommend it. same goes for everything scientific and industrial, because fractional numerical advantages are what eve is really all about. if eve wasn't about fractional advantages, loadouts wouldn't be the primary topic of discussion between players approximately 50% of the time and no one would bother with implants or boosters or even expensive faction and t2 modules."
"shia labeouf speaks my answer on my behalfedit: okay, aside from my smart ass answer. one of the really big reasons people like eve is the fact you don't have to grind. if you want benefits to grinding, there are plenty of mmos out there that do nothing but grind. and frankly, i hate them all."
"while it wasn't formalised, categorising the wiki pages was going to have a 2 step approach. !st step was for the author of the original proposal to categorise their issues after cs or ccp discussion, second step was for the secretary to do it (or delegate someone to do it), should the author forget. as the person who pretty much came up with all the categories for the evelopedia and put a huge % of the info on there in the first place, i thought that would be the simplest and most effective way of managing the information.a brief history of csm & wiki: ankhesentekempahomgwhyismynamesolongitspainfultoread put together a homebrew wiki hosted on her own server during csm1, this data (most of which contained csm2 info as csm 1 documentation wasn't formatted into the wiki) was then reformatted for the evelopedia and ported by me and tusko hopkins. meissa then came up with a pdf/text to wiki converter that was used to bring in minutes and a few other things during csm3."
"i can't give excuses for the rest of the current csm but personally i'm snowed under at work (if you'll pardon the pun) this week getting everything into a functional state so my boss doesn't end up in a panic should something fail while i'm away in iceland!personally i think each rep should update their raised proposals on the wiki but that isn't always happening. we'll try to knock things into shape (and \"we\" as csm4 will probably become just song li and myself )."
"jonah, salpsan can follow the conversation here of course, but he wont reply as isd nor with his player account. you will have to bear with me for the time being ;-)teadaze, my offer still stands, you are welcome to contact me to work something out."
"the more i appreciate it seeing you here :) in turn, please excuse me tearing your quote apart ;)thanks for the explanation, omber zombie :)thought a bit, wrote a lot, deleted it all :d tl;dr: what about having the csm (primarily the reps who brought the proposals to the agenda and if they fail the secretary) accepting responsibility of the pages and their handling but allowing the community to actively support them as well?while that might lead to additional workload to isd (in case of these pages being protected, isd would have to approve every single change) this would first of all help in the pages being maintained straight from the horse's mouth (lol, found it at dict.leo.org and *had* to use it - hope it matches the context, though), so mistakes should be pretty rare, as well as it would allow to deal with situations like todays with a huge bunch of changes by the sheer manpower of the community.and still, the yarr team would have its authority remain unchanged - best case, they would get an entire section free of maintenance (content-wise) ;)however, an update on the explanation at the csm main wiki page would be required, but shouldn't be that much of an issue?edit: sorry eshtir, was writing while you posted. thanks anyway, i just wanted to know the link i left at the discussion page would be useful to him."
"/signed"
"like to see the sin's base model switched to the mega; blasters over drones. the sin is only really useful to bridge stealth bombers, as it can't do hit and run like the other three black ops"
"i approve of hybrid balancing efforts in general"
"supporting the good discussion here about making low sec a unique and viable place in its own right."
"supported"
"+1 and soon please"
"sound has been borked ever since installing win7"
"supported"
"100% agreed. all accruing benefits should halt with the first dt after an account goes inactive."
"supportednow let me quickly go fix me some datacores on an inactive alt before ccp nerfs it :p"
"singed."
"i fully support the idea of having maximum shield hp bonus apply instantly to bring it more in lines with the armor version of this bonus.i can understand where the opposition is coming from in terms of the regenernation arguement. armor tankers don't get a repair rate bonus from their maximum armor hp bonus. i would agree with the following:if my maximum shield capacity is x and the regeneration rate is y relative to that maximum shield capacity, prebonuses, then post bonuses when my new shield capacity is z then that rengeneration rate stays as y.under the current mechanics, no one benefits from the seige warfare skill, unless they been sitting in the same system collecting cobwebs for a significantly prolonged amount of time. a hotdropped thanny and hotdropped chimera both benefit from the armor hp bonus, but neither benefit from the shield hp bonus unless they are untouched for a long, long time. the proposed change would benefits all fleets, regardless of their composition.try not to think of this as a brawl between armor and shield tankers for superiority, but as a way to make fleets more effective in general. also think of it as a way to stop the bruising on the backsides of anyone who trained seige warfare v so they can stop kicking themselves for not training the armor version of it instead . the proposed change diversifies the game through balance. rather than force people to choose one way to tank or the other because a leadership bonus of one apply while the other does not, why not let them choose?"
"this is not specific to gang bonuses. everything that adds to your shields, be it the shield operation skill, shield extender modules or rigs, or whatever has always been broken in this way and needs fixed. passive recharge is a non sequitur. passive tanks are passive tanks -- with or without any one specific size add ( fleet bonus in this case ). hence there is no need to muck with shield recharge time. there is also no issue with exploitability because it just needs to work the same way as armor, which has never been exploited. specifically, when you add/subtract x to maximum shields, you also add/subtract x to current shields.i'm sick and tired of having to wait 10 minutes for the shields to go from 30% to 100% on my shield tanked lachesis whenever i board it, and the shield tanked supercaps are just ridiculously hurt by this bug."
"this, and just this the entire 'hel should be an armor tanker because we want in with the cool crowd' argument it flawed and painful and broken in so many ways. for one the idea that some exceptions to the rule means that there is no rule is fairly flawed as there are also numerous examples of ccps attempt to balance the number of armor tanking and shield tanking ships in the game, mixed success to be sure but they're trying.i think this is pretty clear, you armor buffered a ship with 7 mid slots and 5 lows and more base shield hp then armor hp, the ship wanted to be shield tank but you shoved an armor tank down it's throat. might as well complain about the lack of ehp on an armor tanked drake.so what you're saying is that the hel's problem isn't it's layout it's the shield tank itself that are the problem?currently the hel is a shield tank and there's no particular reason to change that, if shield tanks are having a problem in carriers/super-carriers then perhaps that should be addressed instead of shuffling the hel off to join the armor tankers and just leaving the lonely caldari as the only shield tank."
"this thread is not a discussion about which is better re: shield or armor tanking carriers. so stop talking about that hereta,groot"
"no, you appear to have already decided that armour tanking is better, hence your proposal."
"quoted because larkonis is making a lot of sense here. groot, you are trying to force the hel into something that ccp already has decided that it's not. it doesn't serve any purpose besides being in line with armour buffer fanboi crowd. if you want to be taken seriously, make a proposal 'fix the hel' and list several ways in which it could be done, this way doesn't work."
"its becoming more and more clear that you've not read the op at all.firstly, you still haven't addressed the questions / points i presented you with earlier on which require you to have a vague understanding of the basics of my argument which i am putting forwards, as such the point you are making here is in no way valid.i strongly advise you read the original & subsequent posts. then re-think as to why i would ask people not to debate if carriers should armor or shield tank..."
"i just read the op and still agree with laconis.your initial post does include a 'balanced' shield and armor tanking setup which you could make a decent argument for being appropriately minmatar however your obvious preference towards the armor tanking one and your continual support for that perspective dosen't really serve the balance the game all that better or maintain the flavor of minmatar. morso repeatedly asking for the 6/5/7 layout over the more appropriate 6/6/6 one has reinforced what became obvious from the eft fit, you really just want to armor tank it.now i'll agree that it would probably improve the hel quite a bit to do so but this merely underscores the fact that shields are that much more difficult to get into high ehp numbers. according to your own numbers the nyx has as high ehp as the resist bonused wyvern, now in attempting to replicate your numbers wasn't easy, and i'm curious what exactly you did to achieve such high overall ehp as it's not just in the fit. in spite of how high they were on most ships i found that the one ship i could easily outdo his ehp on was the hel itself, by shield tanking it. this brought it to about 5 mil ehp more then the nyx setup, based on his own but with no bonuses or whatever else he did to it. it's even within 2 mil ehp of the resist bonused aeon, the only one is falls signifigantly behind is the wyvern.clearly something about the ops analysis is either flawed or undisclosed to be achieving such different results with the same ship setup and i'd argue that whatever mechanic the op is using to reverse the trend towards higher ehp lying on the shields side of things may be the culprit over any specific issues with the hel or even shield tanking.ehpwyvern: 36 milaeon: 29 mil (30 mil if you switch a t2 enam for another corelum a-type)hel: 27 milnyx: 23 milshield setupdamage control ii3x caldari navy power diagnostic system2xdread guristas invulnerability field2xpith x-type photon scattering fieldpith x-type heat dissipation fieldpith x-type ballistic deflection fieldpith x-type explosion dampening field3xlarge core defence field extender iiarmor setupdamage control iicore x-type armor em hardenercore x-type armor thermic hardenercore x-type armor kinetic hardenercore x-type armor explosive hardener2xcorelum a-type energized adaptive nano membrane3xlarge trimark armor pump ii"
"did you take into account slave implants? you are able to boost armour by quite a bit with those.saying that, if the hel pilot replaces some pds with i-stabs and throws in a nomad set and plugs in a skirmish mindlink he can get his align time down to 10 seconds, faster than most bs while still maintaining around 25mil ehp. that's still a good 8 doomsdays worth (more if you overload)."
"the only rationale you seem to have brought up for an armor hel in the op is \"motherships have had a name change to super-carriers. this implies that they are burlier versions of their carrier counterparts\". in other words, you're taking a really stupid name change and interpreting it as a design philosophy. and yet, when people make fun of you, you think the problem is with them."
"i didn't take that or fleet bonuses into account because even with those i couldn't replicate the op's numbers, either something's wrong with my eft or the op's found another mechanic to increase armor hp. also if it's the slave implants that push the armor tanks past the shield tanks perhaps it's that that we should look at instead of an overall rebalance of the ships based around the assumption that everyone wears slave implants, sure they probably should but it's an uneven assumption at least."
"sounds like a quick way to pay 5x above retail.it's a fine feature if you know what you're doing.noobs however will have their wallets emptied by dodgy orders."
"newbies won't use fits in the first place."
"lad!"
"yes please. so more people buy my well priced modules!"
"implementation is going to be a concern, but i do support something along these lines."
"1-click easy fitting of expandable ships?yes!now i can die even more in pvp! wohoo! :d"
"definately supported"
"even better - make it so that you can specify how many of those fits you want to buy from market. and then make it possible to fit it into ships without having to wait 30 sec each time.i was recently unfortunate enough to have to fit 60 vigils for my carrier ship maint bay. it was not pleasant."
"you would also need a tick box for buying it all in one station if possible, so you can see the difference in price from buying in one spot or spreading your order around the current region, before you go ahead with the deal."
"even tho in theory this would be a nice tool, there are too many parameters to take into account for it to work or to make it usefull :regional or number of maximum jumpspick cheapest price, but what if there is only 1 seller? ouchset a maximum price too then?upgrade or downgrade to next meta level, either you can't buy the full fit if your preferred meta level is not available, or if you go up or down in meta level the fit may no longer work on your ship.often lower meta levels can cost alot more than higher meta levels, especially if there are only few available, ouch again.okay this may work in rens or jita, because nearly everything is available there, so that means even more people in jita? and rens growing to jita levels? ( not all regions have trade hubs as big as rens, let alone jita )etc.i forsee this only used by newbies, causing their wallets to get emptied rather sooner than later.so personally i feel the time for developping this should better be spend elsewhere."
"oh god, yes please"
"if it could be made to work reasonably it would be a boon to both the wise seller and the buyer who values time above isk."
"have wanted something like this for a long time."
"its something that would be most useful in hubs like jita and rens, granted (at the same time, the ability to dock, fit a ship with 2 or 3 mouse clicks, undock and leave, rather than spending several minutes trawling through the market window to buy every individual module would mean people would spend less time there) but people with the ability to go shopping in jita are already doing so and its hard to see why this would make more of them show up there if they're not already. and newbies who don't know better will buy relisted modules for inflated prices under the current system, the ability to buy a lot of different modules with one click won't change that."
"to prevent moar whining in the phorums and as i don't want to support scam:no.at least not in the 1-click fashion as proposed. however, if it would appear in some kind of a multi-column list view containing information like todays average, local (station/system) and best regional price, it might really be able to make empire life more convenient (as it already is)."
"if this'll be implemented, i recommend this feature to be system-wide only, or (even better) have a editable range.1 click on fit2 press on the buy fit button 3 select range of purchase, for example 2 jumps. 4 ??? 5 profit!"
"i'd go along with this. what would probably work best is if the option initially tried to buy from the station you're currently docked in. if some of the required fittings weren't available (or you deselected them from your list because of a high price), you'd get a pop-up that said something like \"hey, i tried to buy this fit for you but the following modules weren't available here: [_________] would you like to search further afield?\" then you'd select the range that you were willing to buy from to bring up the secondary list of the remaining modules, at the lowest available prices within that buy range."
"how many post need for csm attention ?eris need a serious boost.better if all dictors will be rebalanced."
"eris needs looking at. so does the flycatcher. the only dictor that isn't a \"flying coffin\" is the sabre."
"maybe it is so because gallente ships are not good for active tanking?where should hyperion and brutix take cap if repair module consume energy, weapon consume energy, mwd and ab (you should have it, otherwise blasters are useless at all) consume energy.myrmidon is very good because drones and projectiles do not consume energy :)"
"supported."
"myrmidron is good becuase netiher drones or projectilies arent broken like blasters are."
"active tanking ftw... someday maybe? s'ported"
"10 percent increase in armor repping per level is a solid step in the right direction for active armor tanking ships."
"<big resounding yes to increase the spectrum of useful fits in pvp"
"supported. i'd like to be able to fly a cyclone and not be sneered at for not flying a hurricane instead."
"more than anything i would like a large cargohold size increase on all the active-tank bonus ships."
"supported."
"not supported. your proposal does nothing to address the problem. the repper bonus ships still will not be able to use that bonus in buffer/rr settings. they will just be even better pve monsters."
"i present this idea in the fid forum and got some good feedback. i want to know what assembly hall readers think of this idea, good, bad, horribly broken?tl;dr  tech2 orca whose sole purpose is transporting ore and surviving the harsh realities of deep-space mining.why is this kind of ship needed? industrials and transports work well hauling the labour of 2 boosted hulks, not much more. the orca, while arguably one of the better swiss army knives in eve, cannot give its boni while in warp/docked and its cargo capacity is somewhat lacking when it comes to stripping decent sized belts.the orca works beautifully in its mining op leadership role, which, quite crudely put, is a boni spewing mega gsc. so, as to not infringe upon the orcas many roles i purpose an ore hauling ship. because of its focused role it would fit well with other tech 2 ships.its mission, to better withstand the travails of deep-space, support a mining operation being boosted by a rorqual, and to better support larger and/or remote mining operations in high sec.as such it would have the role boni of tractor range and speed, (120km range and 1500ms speed)edit: bonus changed from 20% to 10% reflecting a suggestion.industrial command ship skill bonus:10% to ore hold size and 10% shield boost amount per leveladvanced industrial command ship skill bonus:10% to shield transport effectiveness and range per levelit would have 4-5 high slots for tractor beams and shield transporters, 6 mid slots for adequate tank, and 3 lows for further tanking/agility modules.a ship that is like a jump freighter and black ops in that it can jump out of high sec and yet return there via stargates. a 250,000m3 ore bay, 10,000m3 fuel bay, no corporate hanger, no ship maintenance bay, a 1000-2000m3 cargohold. this is not to replace the orca, jfs, freighters or the rorqual. it should have marauderesque resists. it shouldnt be able to fit more than a 250k ehp tank, but should rely on active tanking and therefore not be gank proof. it should cost more than 1 billion ideally. skill intensive like the rorqual and a jf maybe icss at level iv as a prerequisite too?the main goal, once again, is to provide medium to large mining corporations and mining ops with a purpose built ore hauler. whether it be to move the ore from the op to a waiting rorqual or from an orca in empire in some remote system, all of this without the need for an army of industrials or orcas, which although more effective than industrials, are not purpose built for this.is this imbalanced somehow? the only thing i can think of this being abused for would be missioning, but you would have to trade off the orcas maintenance bay, corp. hanger and large cargo-hold, for the benefit of having a logistic ship with a small cargo bay and tractors to loot along the way. (which sounds a lot like having a rr tengu with a tractor sub.)could this ship fill a niche within the eve universe? obviously, i think it could, but i was wondering what the playerbase/devs thought of this idea.(the original thread is in the fid forum with the same subject)edit: shield boost bonus was wrong"
"so you want a ship somewhere between the orca and the rorqual. orca like tank, but rorqual like ore hold. jump drives like the rorqual but can use gates like the orca. seems pointless to me as it does not fulfill any new roles."
"my first thought on the matter is that for any op big enough to justify this ship, you can just as easily use one rorqual/orca for gang boosting, and a second for hauling. i've hauled for mining ops before, and a single hauler kept up with 6 hulks and 3 retreivers boosted by a mindlinked orca(though only barely) - surely an orca that holds some 5x as much can keep up with a pretty big mining fleet. that said, your ship is well-designed, and if something is added in this role, you've sketched out what it ought to look like. i don't personally think it's necessary, so i'm not supporting the idea, but i do approve from a game-design point of view."
"this is exactly the kind of input i wanted! and the point about using another orca to haul with was one of my solutions too. which is why i love the orca, it fulfills so many different roles. i think maxed it has something like 170k m3 with gscs and another 50k m3 in the ore hold. what i'm proposing could have upwards of 500k m3 with icss at level v. easily twice that of an orca, but not as efficient as a freighter in hauling ore through empire.was the 6 hulks + retrievers in a station system? i was thinking of this being more for systems without stations, i know there are not a lot of them, but they do exist and many of their fields have 1,000,000 m3 or more of material.i was also thinking of this being something that would warp to an orca, transfer ore until full then drop it off at a corp. hanger, rorqual, station, etc. so maybe no role boni?maybe a better name for it would be a glorified ore industrial"
"learn to fly a pilgrim. you orbit at 1000 with tds on the target, while killing his cap with a single small neut (after volleying it with meds). also ab.staying at range in a pilgrim is usually a quick way to get popped."
"this only works when going for a single active tanked/armor buffered turret ship.in a recon gang vs. some other gang you're the one fighting closest, guess what the chance is of being primaried...whats keeping curses from being popped while at range? the difference is, pilgrims cannot apply cap warfare at range. i'm not asking for a range bonus similar to the curse, just outside web&scram."
"both are very valid points. the curse usually stays out of trouble due to it being out of immediate danger since it's \"far enough\" away.also, i have now devoured dinner and am no longer in such a foul mood, i therefor apologize for my previous asshattery."
"yes the pilgrim have some problem. because you can not use them on about 50 % of the ship.if your target it's a caldari forgot ( the ew doesn't work on the missile) and you tanking is not enough against them.if you target is minmatar forgot ( the artillery don't use cap and and the ew against them is not terrible with the new ammunition). the speed of the minmatar is to high to go out your range of your neutra (thx ccp for nerfing the web).but it's very good ship against the amarr ... and gallente if is not a drone boatclearly for me they have some problem with this ship"
"sir if any one here is a troll it is is you. 1.) if there are that many ideas and people out there demanding this it needs to be done! its just that fing simple, the customer is always right, the customer wants what they paid for. well this is what we want now shut up2.) granted most of the games i listed arent huge mmo's the point was the tech is out there. oh and added to that list is the recently released star trek online, from what my friend tells me they have done this exact thing!3.) as far as server issues go they need to get more anyway cause its getting to the point supporting the basic game the current server isnt support it, hell they are buying a server just for walking in stations so guess what? time to expand more to just support the basic game!4.) as far as large fleet flights go thats why i suggested making an option to turn textures off. hell i even suggested if ccp wants to disable all custom textures till the battle is over cause they are requesting notice and time to \"optimize\" the server to handle the fleet fight which in my eyes is wrong, it should be able to handle it with out any special attention5.) im a miner, i often fly in small fleets with other miners, sitting right next to an orca or other hulks while mining, sure i would like to see my own ship painted but the fact that when i look down at a mining op and every one looks exactly the same is annoying and honestly eve's coloring are growing old and dull cause they have been around forever.oh and i suggest you do a little research because even though the server would see the problem do you know how long it takes the server to process something as simple as a packet of red blue green values? less time then it takes you to blink, now please tell me..... if a server can processes 1 packet that quickly how is it going to lag processing 1000 of these packets? 2000 of these packets? 50000 of these packets? oh and think about it this way too.... sure you might not always see other peoples paint but how would you feel is every car in real life was the exact same color? how would you feel if you got on the freeway, looked around and every car was blue? there isnt even a differnce in shades of color its all one shade with no flames, no decals, no stripes nothing.oh and from now on i suggest you use real logisical numbers, there arent 76,783,402+ people that play eve, if that many people where demanding this even if you had 100,000,000 players that still 75 percent of the game wanting this upgrade and if i was a smart businessman running the game id give those 75 percent what they wanted cause losing 25 percent of my player base to a patch they didnt want is better then losing 25+ percent becuase they didnt get what they wanted. sure not every one who supports this would leave eve if they didnt get it but small things began to quickly stack up to the point the game isnt fun or interesting any more."
"the best way to get people to use a system or concept is to reward them for doing so in the first place. give big alliances a benefit for renting out space to smaller alliances. any empty space occupied by a renting alliance should automatically give the bigger alliance a reduction in their total sov space bill the longer a renter stays. doing so would help to avoid short term scams. so coupled with the having to pay for the empty space mechanic also add an incentive to make it in the best interests for big alliances to rent out space to smaller alliances for the long term by gradually reducing their over all sov bill for the length of duration a renter stays in unclaimed space. this would probably give most big alliances an incentive to do what was actually intended by the deployment of dominion and its new sov mechinism."
"i suggest that the first system an alliance can claim can be anywhere and after that they can only claim adjacent systems."
"i actually like this concept and when dominion sov was first announced, i thought they would so something like thisreminds me of ut4's assault matches."
"how about the more unclaimed systems is in the way from \"main\" system the higer the cost.less artificial rule , similar effect.you can avoid it by compressing your territory, you can do your own way if you rellay want to ( at cost ). sounds more like sandbox, yet it promotes less sprawling."
"another proposal :for each neighbor unclaimed system, the sov tax is increased by x%. x must be quite high (60 ? 75 ?), as it should incitate alliances to claim all the nearby space, or allow other alliances to claim them.for example :"
"when i was in the csm and made my proposal to ccp for the new sovereignty system, this is kinda what i included. have the price a set amount, but make it an exponential multiplier the further away from the highest sovereignty system.for example, an alliance owns one system of sov level 3, and then others of lower sovereignty. the cost of the main system would be marginal (maybe 100k or something). the next systems over might increase that amount by 50%, compounded the further you are from the highest sovereignty. for this example, the cost of the bordering systems might be 150k each, the cost of the next systems from that would cost 225k each, et al.these values are mapped based on the shortest route. if the alliance had sovereignty 3 at their core system (where the jump bridges are), and then didn't have any systems in the intervening systems for quite a ways, they would have to pay 1m if the systems were 7 jumps out, compounded from there.this makes it far more valuable to develop the space you have. i also included other benefits for sovereignty including moon goo, defenses, and agents in space - which ccp seems to have neglected. they went with their own system which, thankfully, incorporated some of my features but unfortunately not all of them.in either case, the sov system works a lot better than it used to, and i'm thankful for that. it's still got it's bugs, but i feel the current mechanics are an exploit of the spirit of the new rules of sovereignty, if not the mechanics itself."
"so pulling in a cnr every few days say 3 at 3 missions a day and lp change sounds reasonable with almost no risk?<U+02C7><U+02C7>being snared in losec<U+02C7><U+02C7> is this what carebears call it? its like they are injured rabbits or something."
"k. keep doing missions then."
"sounds to me like you don't know what your doing as a mission runner."
"good idea. i hate missions, but a good idea is a good idea."
"yep.simply as it's consistent. have pirate faction items added by the same ratio as with the \"non-pirate\" factions lp stores (hrhr, it's always a matter of perspective)!then bring it up to a csm meeting!"
"ok i dont know about this missile tracking computer thing but i deff think that missiles should recieve the skill bonuses to all missiles. t2 torps with exp radius of 650 and exp velocity that most bs can even outrun is ridiculous. also 30 sec flight time is too much if you are wanting to say that missiles are good for range, i would say half the flight time and double velocity. as far as defenders go..only some npc use them so factoring them into any missiles vs turrets argument is about useless.as far as lasers being overpowered.... yea thats true too."
"t2 damage missiles are generally intended to be used against the ship class above yours so if you are fighting other bs fit a web and painter or bring a friend in a rapier."
"<U+02C7><U+02C7>t2 damage missiles are generally intended to be used against the ship class above yours<U+02C7><U+02C7>i dont know where you got that from at all. and why would this be specific to missiles? <U+02C7><U+02C7>if you are fighting other bs fit a web and painter<U+02C7><U+02C7> plus warp disrupt and wheres the tank?.... as far as skills not applying to all missiles?"
"this"
"i believe what he is trying to do is encourage a little variety in the sov mechanics while trying to fix the lag. moving the sbu's off gate grid should allow people to load the system before jumping onto a grid with 300 people on it, so hopefully, (since ccp is very quiet about how their code actually works) they have less to load once they warp in on the sbu, and therefore reducing lag times. plus, spec ops tactics and such would be a little more viable since the sbu isnt on one of the few jump in points."
"would make it more interesting, yes please."
"after some off-forum discussion, i don't think this'll help in decreasing lag. to me, the technical issue seems to be the sheer amount of objects that must be loaded by any incoming pilot (the \"grid loading\" issue). having the sbus located at a beacon off the gate would just exchange the gate object with the beacon object, technically spoken.it wouldn't change anything even if you'd allow the sbus being anchored anywhere within the solar system without a beacon or similar structure. you'll always face the same (technical) situation: n \"defenders\" wait with the grid already loaded so far and m \"attackers\" warping in. while the \"defending\" pilots will have to load m additional objects, the \"attacking\" pilots are forced to load n+m-1 objects as their warp bubbles collapse."
"exactly... i figured simple is better."
"yes to the killmail only api key !"
"posting to confirm that people that are afk are very dangerous"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.also, no support for you. instead, i propose local be made w-style even in 0.0. thank you very much."
"yes lets nerf 0.0 income even further and drive people to lvl 4 missions"
"absolutely not supported.this was tried in sl back in 2005 (i was part of the first group of resident moderators). spent my month defending the idea, and was attacked on the forums, in-world, and in irc - by people who respected me (just the day before!) that i would be a great choice for it. this became one of the main reasons i left that world.links are available for my 'final rant' to them regarding moderation (i re-posted them to my own site since their forum was restricted access). send an eve-mail since i don't check this section regularly.--a_k"
"yup, no way goonswarm/failswarm/wtfswarm would abuse this.no way.your an idiot."
"hey all,since some of my friends and corp mates have seen their accounts \"hacked\" we studied the problem :- no malware, isk buying or keylogger where involved in this cases. - we found that all hacked account have their accounts names used in one or more eve related forums.it appears that accounts names are \"farmed\" on public forums and brute force have been applied to find the passwords.we want ccp to implements account renaming to allow us to change our accounts name on a regular basis, just like our passwords.thanks."
"i can see no obvious harm with this."
"agreed, i dont see anything wrong with it"
"supported."
"make it so"
"i'm sure ccp would rather spend their time raking in $ from people transferring characters from a compromised account to a new one than actually doing something about it.edit 1/1: forgot to support"
"perfectly reasonable."
"can't say no, i'd use that myself."
"not supported at all as this proposal is absurd:andi recommend keepass for both password generation and storage."
"policies can be changed too, that's just words and phrases.brute force hacking of eve accounts is on the rise, and regular passwords changes isn't sufficient now."
"yes, it's the player's responsibility. yes, giving up your account name is a bit dumb. that said, i'd much prefer giving the player the ability to fix a stupid mistake than sticking them with the consequences, if it's practical to do so."
"i chose to quote the policy simply as it easier to understand - less words, less formal than the eula. and no, even the policies aren't \"just words and phrases\", they are part of a legal contract that every capsuleer agreed upon and signed. hence i doubt ccp will agree in changing the parts affected.in addition, you're obviously not aware of the technical and legal implementation details. eve became truly international by the time and so ccp has to deal with a wide variety of legal aspects as still every nation maintains its very own jurisdiction. this in turn leads to additional development efforts whenever changes have to be applied to the technical implementation.s/bit/frighteningly/mike c described a way to deal with such kind of situation: create a new account and transfer the characters from the compromised account to thee new one. finally, terminate the old one. take the fees involved as some kind of reminder.this however won't help at all if the same silly type of passwords is being used and the new account name is broadcasted into the public again. and yes, \"people\" often do silly things like these.they even do way more silly things than this."
"not supported.yes, it'll lead to some positive things here and there, small but the bad side of this proposal can easily overshadow the pros.why? imagine you're a ceo of a certain big alliance in delve which has its ass whooped by real alliances. now, imagine you have this 'idea' implemented. what i'm trying to say? it's simple: steal all assets and cash, disband the alliance and rename yourself to something completely different and non-related to your previous name. there, now join a random pvp corp and start over with your big fat asset&cash chest since no one can ever track you down, forever."
"excuse me sir, may it be you mistake account name changes (this thread) for character name changes (that thread)?"
"i have two issues that i think need to be looked at and improved.1) the marketplace layout is alright as it is now, but it can be unresponsive, especially when trying to buy multiple items. the marketplace updates everytime the window is resized or an item is bougth or clicked, and when it does this it can become unresponsive, slowing the experience and breaking general flow. also the area of the marketplace that shows the items and description shows a lot of text but has a very transparent background that can only be changed by making all window edges nontransparent. the marketplace needs to have a performance increase to make it more responsive and so that i can read the description in the marketplace without having to look at a very transparent background.2) the lp store is very unintitively designed. making filters requires too many clicks and it can take a lot of scrolling to find the one item i want. an addition, to find the required items on the marketplace i can't just right-click the item and \"view market details\" but i have to move the window to the side, open the marketplace and (assuming i now where to look) navigate through the marketplace and find the item, which can be difficult because tags can have long names and similar names so it requires me to extend the size of the lp window to see the full name. what i'm saying is that it requires too many clicks to use the lp store. fewer clicks help to make a better game. so i would like it if the lp store was either made to resemble the marketplace more or integrated into the marketplace and required items can be right-clicked so that i can quickly view the market details."
"1) unresponsiveness isn't a quick fix - they've been making it better for years, but it's still going to be ugly for the foreseeable future. the market database servers get hammered with a really obscene number of queries - lag is inevitable. that said, i agree regarding transparency. 2) agreed fully. supporting this, as long as you don't really expect a lag fix."
"i wouldn't mind seeing a wee bit of a boost to the grid so that the cruiser size ship could actually fit one or two cruiser size shield mods, but seriously... if you can't tank the npc rats in 0.0 you should just give up and go back to empire. and the comment about the rorqual being too fragile? tell me that was a joke..."
"while you should not be 100% safe anywhere you also should not be able to use a pair of free ( after insurance ) smartbombing bs to kill half a dozen 180 million isk ships with no possible way to defend."
"other forms of ewar need a boost, if anything.ecm boats are, once someone has a lock on you, flying coffins. unless you can get a lucky jam on whatever is tackling you, it's over. and if there are multiple ships tackling you... well. they're also one of the few viable counters to rr gangs, and can have half their effectiveness chopped off by a single module.a single unbonused multispec being able to lock out a frigate is a problem, but ruining ecm to fix that isn't an option."
"lowslot eccm needs a buff. this is not it."
"i endorse this product and/or service"
"it's gerbils now"
"honestly, at least to me these hardware related stories by oveur made up a significant part of eve. it's always cool to know what kind of state-of-the-art yarrdware one's using just by playing eve.i definitely miss 'em."
"just give them a 3d grace period and kill the order at downtime and dunno the way people undercut and also complain about undercutting i have my doubts about how much of an issue this is. that and it lowers your ability to react to market changesmight as well support though."
"not supported.ghost training and what you now oh so uncreatively dub 'ghost selling' are completely different. the first increased the 'value' of a character through the continued training of the last skill you were training, that for many years was a selling point until ccp made a ninja edit about eve's history and features by claiming it was a bug. unattended selling just leaves market orders abandoned and by the nature of a) the market, b) being unattended they cannot compete with active 'live' accounts. furthermore a character can have a maximum of 305 active sell orders, so on one account that is 915 not multiple thousands. on 3 different accounts that is 2715 sell orders if that is what you meant, keeping 3 accounts with outdated orders is foolish. market orders that continue after an account goes inactive are outdated by their nature. if you and other players are too lazy, slow, poor, etc to react to old market orders and make them all but worthless it is your own fault. letting other players who aren't there to update those orders sell their items instead of selling your own is just a sign that you don't have what it takes to compete in the market ccp shouldn't give you a crutch by nerfing players sell order because your defects. this is eve compete or gtfo, for real i don't have inactive accounts and wouldn't farm a character like this but what you want hurts all players who ever take a break or screw up for one reason your own greed and spite. stopping sell orders like this is just player anger and greed over someone else and the idea that there are legions of characters doing this. additionally sell orders are set to run and end a character creates the order and pays to do so. someone taking time off of eve or forgetting to pay via gtc, paypal etc is punished because of your greed and spite over imagined billions of isk that any account with active sell orders allegedly has. you are incapable of realizing that abandoned sell orders are not competitive in the market and cannot compete with active accounts and players monitoring their sell orders. the market takes care of itself it does not need to have players punished by a change like this in order to work.usually when people make proposals they try to list pros an cons because they try to think about the outcome of said changes and present reasons why the pros outweigh the cons or form some argument about it. you have done neither, it is simply i don't want sell orders to continue because some players might or are probably doing something like this and i can't/don't, also ccp is losing money because they can make billions on outdated sell orders that no other players are competing against which makes no sense."
"this is really a meaningless complaint. who would intentionally leave up gobs of orders for an extended period of time without the ability to change them? i bet a guy who cancelled in november feels really good about selling his nanotransistors for 1100/unit and buying ferrogel for 50k when he comes back."
"because the basis of that amount of sell orders would be selling small amounts of goods over a very wide area at a high premium. believe me it works. these sell orders dont need changing and work on low volume high margin. generally the basis of them would be to produce 2 or 3 million a month. this would mean that an account of the alts would generate approximately 2 billion a month. with three of these you would activate 1 per month at a cost of 250 million for six billion profit. efficient use of jump clones and courier contracts would cut down the work considerably making this very scalebale."
"all of this."
"lol, no."
"i will vote against this proposal with all 4 of my currently active accounts."
"look at moa and weep"
"can't weep cause it burns my eyes"
"good god, giev. nao."
"not supported.all i see is someone trying to squeeze a tax out of non mission runners by trying to disguise it as something else.manufacturing doesn't need an incentive.corp teamwork is the problem of corps not a burden to be placed on the community through a tax.someone seems angry that minerals and ore are traded."
"meeting took place sun 7th feb at 15:17eve wiki link summary and raw logsexternal downloads raw log | pdf summarytl:drpresent: elvenlord, alekseyev karrde, teadaze, mrs trzzbk, korvin, z0d, song li, sokratesz, helen highwater (alt), t'amber (alt), meissa anunthiel (alt - afk at start)absent: zastrow, farscape hw (alt), serenity steele (alt)results1. more control over medalsvote passed 9 for2. tower under attack mails to pos gunnersvote passed 7 for, 2 against (elvenlord, mrs trzzbk)3. increase forum signature file size limitationsvote passed 8 for, 1 against (korvin)4. reconnect to lost dronesvote passed 8 for, 1 against (mrs trzzbk)5. increasing fleet sizevote passed 5 for, 4 against (alekseyev karrde, teadaze, korvin, song li)6. in-game account expiration countdownvote passed 9 forother businessnext online meeting set for march 14th with the time to be announced later.meeting closed at 16:33"
"glad to see everything passed. must say though, that is a very long time to wait for the next meeting. you sure that gives you enough stuff to really fill your agendas for the online meetings?"
"meeting minutes ?"
"the raw log has been up since monday, the edited version will be up on the wiki as soon as isd approve it and the tl:dr will be here very soon(tm)."
"<3"
"we will be discussing various csm related topics with ccp at the summit next week. i suggest we wait for the outcome of those talks before getting too far into structure changes etc on the wiki."
"sorry but having more titans than blackops ingame is really... fail--> boost blackops"
"/signed"
"unfortunately i never flew a capship pre-apocrypha but i have seen on youtube the old jump graphics and i do have to agree the current ones are... lack-lustre!/supported"
"the fact that ccp did nothing about it after all this time suggests they really don't give a rat's ass what you think."
"but the more thunb-up this topic gathers, the more apparent the fail of ccp is. who knows maybe this topic will make it to times megazine one day."
"yes"
"bump, because railguns are used by 50% of eve and more."
"sorry, but outlaw is just a horrible name for an eve expansion. consider the past expansion names:castorexodusexodus: cold warexodus: red moon risingbloodlinesrevelations i & iitrinityempyrean agequantum riseapocryphadominionoutlaw just doesn't really fit in. nemesis would be my vote for an appropriate name for an expansion dealing with new eden's criminal underground."
"corruption"
"exactly this, it isnt a piracy boost, its a lowsec boost, whatever you do in lowsec.and yeah outlaw isnt the best name but the name wasnt important, getting it noticed and acted on is!"
"of course. i've already supported this thread on my main. guess i should support it on this alt too."
"this has got to change. worm hole space is the perfect place for tech 3 ships but without the ability to swap subsystems they are really gimped."
"big support"
"/signed"
"very nice.supported."
"yamamoto for pres '10"
"this is brilliant."
"after some thought, i've come to the conclusion that all these \"limited api required for service (x), (y) and (z)\"-services that are popping up is kind of silly - i've ended up doing manual reports instead on characters/accounts i don't want to share character datas for - especially longtimers might have a hard time giving out this information - as in, it's not always trivial to do so.my suggestion is adding a configurable-access api, with default set to show (by default) :- pilot name- pilot corporation- pilot allianceas such, no skills, no attributes, and no wallet content is delivered to offsite systems by default (meaning the limited api becomes a simple \"verification api-key\").adding / creating a new api-key system with a \"per key restrictionset\" could be feasible, doing something like this :[ ] allow polling all characters with this api[x] allow only character named [charactername] to be polled with this key[x] allow showing character name / corporation name / alliance name (set to yes by default)[ ] allow showing skills[ ] allow showing certificates[ ] allow showing wallet content[ ] allow showing assets[ ] allow showing journal[ ] allow showing industry/science jobsetc etc etc - with rolesettings for both characters and corporations (should the queried character be a ceo)(i already know that the \"full api\" is required for most of this though, it can however be removed once a rolebased api-method like this would exist)it'll be autogenerated keys when created, as per today, but allowing multiple sets where the userid holds information of which character, the enhanced/adjustable api holds which access the api has (done as above, with ticked selectboxes) - in short, it would replace both the limited and full api keys.this would then be able to replace / enhance the following suggestions :"
"/signed. at least a basic verification option would be good enough for forum/ts/vent registrations. i really don't want to give out detailed skill training and my current wallet balance to every alliance i happen to fleet up with."
"i like the configurable option, with the basic info as the default. in fact, i'm surprised that all that informaiton is provided by default.however, how would you handle cases where you may want to provide different levels of informaiton for different purposes, eg. name/corp/alliance for boards and ts, but more info for others like eft, etc."
"yeah, the system could use some more customization."
"mark galean, could you please add links to the relevant threads (the ones that would be rendered obsolete if you proposal would be implemented) to your proposal? would add some weight to the proposal as such ;)the only obvious caveat i see onn first glance is that it'll guarantee a flood of \"we want moarr keys!\" threads as all those shiny tools and apps require different types of information and you'll just have your \"public\" key to share... (e.g. a killboard asks for different information than in-eve.net and the other application asks for different information again - this will have you end up with basically spreading all of your valuable information all over the world... or makes you cry for even moarr keys).apart from that, this is currently the best proposal i read. flexible and powerful.supported."
"supported"
"1.0"
"bawww? there's more to pvp than buffer/rr slugfests. as i stated in the op there's very little incentive to use these ships over their resist bonused counterparts in an 'active' tanked role.it's not perfect i'll admit but it's a little step and a start."
"originally way way before the popularity of rr gangs and massive buffer tanked blobs, were talking years here.. 4+ the repair bonus was 5%, the same as the resist bonus.ccp at the time realized how superior the resist bonus was to the repair bonus so they increased it to the current 7.5%fast forward to present and you find that larger scale pvp is almost exclusively rr ganga and buffer tanks, something ccp did not expect or make plans for.because of this, local repairs are almost dead and the ships with the repair bonus are less effective.this is an old issue now and has been discussed many times, the first comprehensive math based discussion has long since been lost on the eve forums but the basic outcome of that thread was the realization that a repair bonus overtakes a resist bonus in a very small margin of incoming dps after about 2 minutes and then is superior by just 2%.basically in 9/10 times (an out my butt number) the resist bonus is far superior.if the repair bonus was increased however to 10%, there is a very real and tangable superiority in small to mid sized engagements where a repair bonus would be superior.this to me makes it worth fighting for so /signed"
"supporting this!those who fear that it might be too much, active tanking is still vulnerable to cap warfare."
"i still believe that the main cause of the problem here is overpowered buffer/passive tanking. specifically since rig prices have dropped significantly and small/medium rigs became extremely cheap. the 15% extra hp rigs give huge advantage to buffer tanking.and i don't like the trend of increasing battle duration with stronger defense vs offense, as that makes active tanking more sensitive to cap issues. i know ccp has some understanding of this issue since they reduced cap booster charge sizes.stop the never ending boosts to tanking. nerf buffer tanking."
"1.0"
"i like this very much, as long as the account names are still hidden from non-ccp employees."
"bringing this issue back to the fore for further examination.the current state of this failure is a major game breaker for industrial types."
"very badly needed"
"yeah, the time i'm thinking of i picked the belt specifically to be about an au away from the station, to minimize warp times. rigged, expanded itty 5, warping back and forth with full loads constantly(no gsc though, they take too long to fill/empty). most non-station systems are in 0.0, where rorqual compression does the job you're looking for pretty well - run the ore through a compression cycle(10-40x compression) and you can pretty trivially keep several million m3 of raw ore in the rorq's cargo/ore/corp bays. yeah, there's a handful of non-station systems in highsec, but that's pretty minor. even at minimal rorq compression, an orca can get around 2m m3 of raw ore into a load - it'd take a pretty crazy mining fleet for that not to be enough hauling capacity."
"the system that i'm based out of has like 4-6 belts in it, which i can stripped with 3-4 hulks each day if i have the time and numbers, but the neighboring system has like 15+ belts. and there isn't a station in it.in my \"home\" system there are also little independent miners, which i know i shouldn't have a conscious in eve, but i feel bad when i strip the belts. they don't have the logistics to easily move the ore, basically no haulers. so i figure i would mine in the aforementioned neighboring system. (though maybe i should try and steal them from their current corporations )only problem is even with just two hulks pumping out 5400m3 every 141secs (i know my orca pilot isn't maxed) each i can just keep up with them with my itty rigged v. but then again i do have built in lag due to my satellite internet. >.<now if i were to put a small pos in system, then freighter out the raw ore that could work, but after 4-6 hulks even then i don't think i could keep up. so i'll more than likely have that person start training for an orca.but i had this idea for an o.r.e. sized industrial :p and proposed it for better worst. and maybe with the devs hopes of more people moving to 0.0 with dominion, more stations will come too, and this idea will be completely irrelevant.edit: i hate using gscs too, but put them in because the inevitable troll would be like \"noes it holds mores, noob! just use gscs\""
"i think the balance is in the ore only hold, i like the idea of it being larger... but i am thinking 300km3 would be more reasonable. with no jump capability it is still a mean little ship for its purpose. it would also make ore hauling in highsec a bit easier which is always a nice thing since not being able to move the stuff is one of the major problems with the price.i would keep the highslots at 3 but give it a bonus to shield repping instead of the mindlink bonus, keep the tractor bonus as it is, so all in all a few curbs on the size to help with getting it past the csm and the devs. otherwise the tank is reasonable in highsec it should act both as a support for highsec mining ops and as a ore freighter, so its tank should be somewhere at about half of a highsec freighter is capable of since it has about half (or a third per my suggestion) the storage space. in null it gives a ninja mining op the endurance it needs if it does not have rorq support and if it does it gives them an easier method of moving the ore while in system to the rorq without the bonus from the orca itself being lost during warp. the only question is who is going to go through the extra training needed to make an orca the awesomeness that it is but then end up a large glorified industrial."
"okay, so maybe 10% per level like i originally posted in the fid forum? that would give it 375k m3, a nice size. it might not be uber popular like the orca is, because you are just an industrial pilot. but hey, think of all the miners out there who train a second account to haul for them, they tend to bring them to mining ops as well. now if only 1/4 or even 1/8th would bring one of these bad boys the others could train their alts up to be hulk pilots too. and more people mining is more money in the corporations pocket and more security (less time spent in one place)i wonder if a dev/gm can correct me if i'm wrong on this; but the whole freighter needing an online pos/station to move things in and out of it's cargo hold isn't a matter of being anti-mining, but there where other reasons at the time. pos issues if i remember correctly. so this ship might be a way around that/those issue(s). given the new hold specific mechanics we could have an ore freighter of sorts. like i said if ccp does have a problem with this can we(i) get a response to this?edit: seplilng"
"not supported.when i jump into a gate camp, i don't want the eve database server bogged down looking up paint jobs.i want it to figure out *essential* things, send them to me so i can load grid, and let me be on my way!if you just want it stored on your own pc for your client only (nobody else can see your paint job), i still don't approve because tbh there are much bigger fish to fry!"
"lots of missile threads recently. don't see any about defenders.a fix in two parts:1) alter defender ai so they target objects like fof missiles do, only restricted to missiles from hostile flagged ships. prioritize missiles fired by a locked ship that the defender launcher is activated on (like fof does).2) introduce tiered defender launchers and defender missiles, much like normal missiles have: light (frigate), assault and medium (cruiser/bc), and siege and heavy (bs) launchers. split defenders into appropriate ammo for each launcher: light, medium and heavy defender missiles, with different base damages. alter missile hp so defenders of the same class are at least 1:1 effective without bcs modifiers.result: sensible defender behavior--with autofire! no more rocket launchers used on bs for defenders. a reason to split up your missile weapon groups, since theoretically the blast from a single defender might do enough hp damage to take out multiple incoming, grouped missiles.discuss.--krum"
"i would like more launchers that works like cap boosters: they join more missiles in a single fight so you have defender launcher (1) that launch a single defender missile and can be fitted in a small high, defender launcher (5) that launch a group of five defender missiles and can still put in a small high (but with a fifth of total rounds before recharging obv.), defender missiles (10) up to (20) in mid high and so on for bigger flights of defenders that can take down enemy missiles with more hp and grouped in larger numbers."
"yes, because what missiles need is even more ability to have the damage reduced with no counter. why stop at smartbombs, burners, and defenders at medium/long range? yes, let's finish the job with autofiring defenders that work at short range!(not supported)"
"the only changes i'd like to see with defenders are as follows:a: slow them down by half. currently their insane speed makes them overshoot the target. anything within 20km won't be touched.b: a dedicated launcher; higher ammo volume, rocket launcher rate of fire (2 to 3 seconds). this will mitigate some incoming damage but only marginally. effective against small salvos but not entire volleys.c: automatic launch once the bay has been activated.d: fleet screen; they target any missile fired at any ally in the pilot's fleet. this will lessen the likelihood of canceling a large degree of incoming damage as the defenders will strike randomly at incoming missiles and might not offer any protection whatsoever to the screening ship."
"not supported.i'm a terribly timid carebear with zilch for pvp skills and even less interest. i like to mine ore, make stuff, sell stuff, and do a little missioning for a change of pace.but i understand that the trade-off for my personal playstyle is that some of the most profitable and challenging pve experiences -- such as level 5 missions -- are unavailable to me.op needs to make a choice -- either accept the risk of missioning in low-sec or accept the fact that he's advanced as far as his personal playstyle permits and find something else to do.its a big game with plenty of options. but if you choose to put some options off-limits to yourself that's your own, personal choice and not a reason to redesign the game."
"more reward, with less risk?no thanks./ben"
"yeah sharks are something of a concern, personally i tend to think about the jellyfish more they are just more creepy then sharks, at least i can understand sharks."
"i suggest we move lvl4 missions to lowsec, and lvl5 missions to 0.0 (pirate regions).risk/reward system fixed!"
"please."
"guys, you know ccp have said that they most likely won't do this, because of the whole platform?nevertheless, if the launcher would reset the client, and auto-inset the password, it could work.supported, anyways, but i think it's unlikely that it will happen.."
"gawd plz!!!"
"/supportedis there any ccp guy looking at this thread?it could be interesting to have your advice on this :)best regards,"
"ccp adressed this in the latest csm chat;"
"this change gets my vote!"
"i don't know, maybe by looking at the explosion radius and velocity of t2 rage/fury missiles and comparing them to ships of the class that fire them, and i believe it's been mentioned by the devs a couple of times. just the same reason i wouldn't expect to use void l against similar sized vessels (or ever, lol) because of the terrible tracking. all you missile martyrs are constantly sounding hard done by because of explosion velocity and radius. how often do turret users complain about falloff and tracking? if anything you should be glad that all your t2 ammo is useful across all spectrums.you have these limitations, turrets have their own. you say missiles aren't viable in long range battles. don't use them then or find a different role within the fleet for your missiles (protip: there are plenty)."
"i don't see how the tempest is a 'mixed slot' ship, it has a double projectile bonus 6 turrets 4 launchers and a raven has launcher bonuses 6 launcher 4 turrets.. so is the raven a mixed slot ship too?missiles have a module to enhance damage.. it's called a target painter.. last thing i want is another damn module needed to make missiles actually apply damage to things it's rough enough as it is."
"missiles are fine. not supported."
"omg, yes please"
"indeed"
"so simple, yet so much less annoyance."
"1.0"
"i never have been to a wormhole so far but i heard of the sleeper drones which are suppose to be guarding humans who split from society long ago. why not let the next expansion be \"the awakening\" where the 5 race wakes up. in a first step part of high sec could be claimed by the 5th race, which is essential if you want to start with this race. also t3 frigs would be introduced and some t3 items.at first it could be a small group so not the full t3 line need to be introduced. later awakenings (expansions) in wh's could lead to the creation of just one stable wh which leads to the other groups owning some systems in a wh. this could be 4-5 high sec systems in wh so the can not be claimed.later on further t3 ships can be introduced."
"please flesh it out a bit more than. new racenew shipsnew stuffterrible iea"
"i don't think you have nearly any idea how much work this would be.if ccp diverted all resources to such a project, it would probably still take over a year to complete, at least.:/in addition, this new race would be pretty pointless - why would a 80m sp amarr toon want to reroll \"new race\" guns and ship skills?"
"sorry i am not so deep into the background stories. i certainly wont write a whole essay about just an idea. why dont you participate and help to make i great idea instead of just calling it terrible?i mean t3 ships where already introduced. i dare say that the next t3 ship class wont be introduced so very far in the future but maybe in summer or in a year. maybe my idea is to much bound to the background story.didnt you learn new skills for the t3 cruiser? you dont have to learn the other race skills. as an amarr toon you are not learning caldari either, or do you? if yes learning more skills wont be difficult? the work for this would be exactly the one new ship class (t3 frig) and x t3 items. taking couple of systems and change the faction.it would be an effort certainly. i may be wrong but your statement sound like that you are fine with the 80mil sp and this status and dont want to put further effort in developing your char?"
"becouse it's -your- idea, and as you reported it, -its- terrible.when you will have a complete idea that's not terrible, write it there.writing something so vague that's basically \"i want stuff that do stuff with stuff and a few stuff\" its not an idea."
"where is the rule that an idea has to have 3000 words or 1000 or whatever? an idea can be to use corn oil instead of gas. i dont have to give you a blueprint how the motor need to look like for this.so either participate by bringing counter arguments based on the info and about the info you have or stop trolling around!"
"unfortunately they're not trolling.barely fleshed out ideas like this belong in the features and ideas forum, not in the assembly hall."
"this.it is getting really annoying that people throw half baked stuff in and blame others when they challenge the ideas."
"this idea does fail.it makes more sense to add depth to what already exists than to add something new.there are 5 pirates factions, 4 empire factions, 1 non-empire faction and rogue drones all of which can add more content to the game.i must observe that ops first reaction to eve seems to be \"let's add more stuff\", eve has a sht-ton of stuff. i don't know what else to say.t3 modules and frigs will probably come in time, as well as more t2 modules. who knows."
"this is interesting. i saw my idea to be a deepening of the already introduced wh's and t3 stuff. i mean arent the sleeper drones supposed to be the guardians of some cryo-sleeping humans?you are right eve has alot of stuff. but wh's and t3 was introduced already so why not deepening it"
"your idea is like you've come up with a title to the book but your expecting everyone else to come up with the contents of said book.stupid... ridiculous...and wholly egotistical.epic failnot supporting.ps: and talking about something you know nothing about is just adding insult to injury... get your arse into wormhole space and explore a bit and you just might get inspired."
"i want to be a freaking rogue drone... it could happen! the ships already kinda exist, replace pod with mind core ai, and give them a slice of drone space that suddenly becomes intelligent enough to ask for membership to empire.not that its going to happen, balancing the 4 races is already enough of a nightmare, and honestly drones tank like... well garbage cans. but maybe just maybe something like that could happen in a few years, honestly its more likely than the jove becoming a playable race."
"well, if you look at the research skillbooks you'll see all sorts of funny names you don't see much in eve, this is because roughly each faction has a progenitor terran (original earthen settlers in new eden) \"race\", they all eventually \"die out\" (read, return to the dark ages) with the exception of the jovians (who are dying out anyways).it's already been established that the sleepers (as in the \"race\") have died out and what you see in wormhole space is the mechanical systems living on even after their creators have died out.the reason that i say your idea fails is because you haven't really brought any fresh idea to the table.that being said, i don't think a new race is necessary, there is enough food for intrigue and politics at the moment, a new race would only be necessary when all the current plot arcs in npc space go stale, which is probably when the jovians will rear their ugly, bulbous heads.personally, i like to believe that jamyl sarum is a sansha's nation plant."
"i'm going to have to jump in with the chorus on this one. your idea is too vague to possibly be taken anywhere. this isn't \"let's use corn oil instead of gas\", this is \"let's save the planet, man!\". great sentiment, zero substance."
"the idea need to have a goal and a description. the bigger the idea, the more details needed. for something like \"move this button to the left plz so i don't miss click\" it would be enough. for something as massive as creating a new race (that;'s creating 25% more content) there needs to be a very good reason. since i fail to see any, i do not support."
"t3 cruisers have a role (or something).what i am saying is:why would anyone, who has specialized in one race, want to switch to this new one, thus \"wasting\" all sp you've spent in your current race's ships and mods?if you have specialized yourself as an amarr battleship pilot, what is the reason you would go reroll caldari bs, for example?obviously, if you are maxxed v's, you might find new ships to train for interesting, but realistically, you won't really become \"better\" if you switch to caldari. that's the theory, anyways. this only works when a thing called \"balance\" is applied, but making the new race completely op/up would just help out new pilots, and not do much else.i am aware that ccp + balance = rofl lol, but i don't find it relevant."
"cross training other races has multiple reasons:- greater variety of ships to choose from. (can come in handy if you just lost your zealot and can jump into e.g. muninn right away)- pirate faction ships usually require 2 races (amarr+caldari e.g. would open up the sansha line up) who wouldnt want to have a nightmare?"
"i think it would be great to have some kind of basic help in fiting ships ingame. we are all using one well known program out of game, but maybe it is time to implement it ingame.thanks."
"not supported.other than the lack of said \"tools\" (eft is not the only one!) on the mac side... the pc users need only alt tab to where they need to go... some work inside the igb...not needing to put unnecessary load on ccp for something already perfected out-of-game."
"drake draconisother than the lack of said \"tools\" (eft is not the only one!) on the mac side... the pc users need only alt tab to where they need to go... some work inside the igb...not needing to put unnecessary load on ccp for something already perfected out-of-game.i dont think so.i agree with the idea, but i think the objective is not to implement \"eft\" or others free based eve programs. anyway, the possibility in-game of testing fittings before buying the items will be nice.i dont think it will be a source of lag, it can be done for example in station only, and calculated by the customer computer."
"i would rather ccp focus on bugs and less on new content.. feel free to get to the back of the line behind the pilots carrying pitchforks."
"well, here is my opinion: if you want to improve in-game fitting windows- sure. if you want to add something that serves the purpose of eft- it would be nice to have, but isn't essential. sure, it would be nice to have (just like the browser and jukebox updates we got). and probably should be done someday. yes, true, there are issues like the lag, that have way higher priority."
"i didn't say it was a bad idea.. just that it's not earth shattering."
"preface: anchoring modules to posses is boring, repetitive and time-consuming. a cynojammer deathstar-pos can easily have over 100 modules with about 3min anchor and online timers.abstract: for example, the capsuleer could spend fifteen minutes inserting multiple anchoring commands into a queue, and then go do something fun, while the pos would carry out the queued commands.by command, i mean any of the four commands that can be given to a pos module: anchor, online, unanchor and offline.the current implementation works as follows: when a capsuleer gives the pos a command, and the pos is already carrying out another command, the capsuleer is notified of this and the new command fails.the new command queue would work like this: when a capsuleer gives the pos a command, and the pos is already carrying out another command, the capsuleer is notified of this and asked if he'd like to insert the command into the queue. whenever a pos completes a command, it would fetch the next command from the queue and start doing that. the pos management screen would have a new tab for the command queue where the capsuleer could view and remove queued commands and change their order."
"yes, anything to make working with poses more friendly.that being said, the whole pos management... no, the whole pos system needs to be reworked from the ground up."
"pos templates are what we need - they'll work a bit like an outpost egg - you drop the pos and all the modules and fuel and what have you into a container which we'll call a pos egg, then you 'pres butan'. then you guard the egg while it onlines the modules, or you don't guard it and someone comes along and pops the egg before it finishes onlining everything vov.i have no problems with a pos taking several hours to online properly, that's a reasonable consideration given the difficulty of dislodging a properly setup deathstar, but it shouldn't be so boring. either allow for some automation or implement a quicktime events minigame where we have to press coloured buttons in order to finish onlining the pos."
"/supportedpos deployment has to be the most unneccessarily boring and repetitive and annoying and time consuming task in this game. any kind of queue or automation and/or template or something could only be an improvement."
"i'm pretty sure this has already been raised. it's desperately needed, of course, but no point asking for it twice."
"i do agree, no need to ask for a same thing twice.i'd very much appreciate if anyone could provide link to any similar proposal."
"yes, pos management is atrocious.try running refinery arrays; 3 input & 1 output silo for a polymer refinery: that's 5 structures per refining cycle that need to be taken offline (if you're switching polymer output) at 3 minutes to online each.and that's nothing to having to anchor them (20 minutes per).pos need to be taken back to the drawingboard and redesigned from the ground up, throwing out the old code that was never intended for this degree of stupidity."
"couldn't find anything similar at evelopedia, so...no support.if at all, i'd go with diana devils idea of \"pos templates\" but this wasn't proposed."
"numerous threads have been brought forward on the pos issue, and every csm thus far has brought it up with ccp.the problem lies with the fact that the person who was behind the majority of the pos code is no longer employed by ccp and they're terrified to touch it.they're not about to attempt a complete revamp from the ground up because of the insane issues it would cause trying to have both systems in place until everyone shifts to the new design.look up some of the threadnaughts on the issue, there are many. that dead old horse should have been reduced to a smear years ago."
"csm1 and csm2 aren't generally on evelopedia, the only site i know that had them was a wiki on ankh's personal website, but either i've forgotten the url or she took it down. one of these days i'll get monumentally bored and wikify all the old meeting minutes, but for now, i'll just rest on it being a suspicion."
"it was csm 3 the article can be found here:"
"applying my first bump for bumps sake"
"detailed information such as why it would be necessary to have a new api key introduced only for this specific purpose while the current limited api key already allows access to this information. stuff like this.as it is now, you're simply asking ccp to support your ingame business idea (which you certainly would be able to implement using the information available as given today)."
"with oauth they could have multiple scopes.the user could approve access for a 3rd party to access certain scopes with a single click.in a safe and secure way with no need for messy public keys.without an oauth api for opensocial apps and others to latch onto the coming social network is going to be a joke."
"well, this is eminently balanced:if you bid and never pay you lock up one of your contract slots. you don't have very many to begin with.the other person can cancel the auction, returning your isk and their item, but you cannot cancel it as you're the one placing the bid and 'locking down' their goods.once the auction is complete, and until the person claims their goods, the person placing it should be able to cancel it.griefers won't be able to do anything to you if this were in place, but you could cause scammers no end to grief. if you put an item on auction and it gets 'locked down' you can still cancel it and re-issue. if someone scams you then you just let it sit there until they cancel, no isk out of your wallet.however, one modification: if a bid is placed and the auction left to hang for more than (say) 7 days (or a user selectable period of time) after completion of the auction cycle that bid is automatically retracted, rolling the auction back to the next highest bid. the buyer cannot retract a bid, they just have to sit and wait for the automatic system to do so. this to prevent people from purposely locking down auctions to cause grief."
"completely ridiculous."
"nocloakers are a feature of eve. they gather intel and lower enemies morale (this op). perfect balance atm."
"i was not informed that 0.0 could be dangerous. surely this is not intended? i should be allowed to carebear in peace protected by instant, infallible local!"
"paging afk cloaker to this tread..."
"if you are unable to defend your space from such incursions then you don't deserve it."
"hi,my proposal : (edited to add a delivery attached system)a. expand the market possibilities, and bring players owned shops to stabilize the market. 1. the actual market system is very good, but the corps and ally need an opportunity for \"fidelisation\" 2. it's done by forum for now, but an ingame system can be a benefit for all players. 3. shops is a solution to improve politic systems and sovereignity.b. how make a store system without destroying the actual market system ? 1. the market will not change itself, but players will have opportunity to open \"stores\" in the stations, by giving isk to the owner, in exchange, there can be a diminution of taxes.example : i want to open a store in a not much populatedsystem : i pay to the owner of the station some isk, for example 5m a month. i now have a store open in this station, were people can see offers. the owner of the station (both npc's or player copr, doesn't matter), give me a lower tax rate for items i sell in this place. they're interested in gaining a good amount of money for the month, i m interested of making more profit on sellings, or just sell items lower than others and still making profit. 2. the possibility to create 'shopping items\", like contracts, but sold in the \"store\". (eventually, it could \"replace\" the actual contract system, but it will need another proposal, i mnot into destroy the actual system, just wanna give a new tool to help corps...)example : i have a store in a system with lot of miners.. i can sell special fits like a contract, but its on the store. to encourage players using my store and not buying on regular market, i have some options ;first, the guy can afford the fit in the same station, he gain lots of time. second, i can use a system that give some reduction for a fidel customer. like with a system of points giving reductions in future transactions. c. how it can improve the sovereignity system? 1. with the appearence of the new sov system, and improving owned stations, it will be a new way of making money for the owner of the system, and also a good way to keep players in the system.example : a corporation/ally, get the control of a system. they begin to populate the system with little corporations, and they want to keep them in place and protected.then if some corporation create store in there stations there will be some good things like :-an alternate market with more products at low prices, -an improvment in month taxes (but less taxes on incoming transactions).-a way to create their own stores and gve reduction for their friends.-an opportunity to gain the control on the economy of their owned systems.-a possibility of making some system with special economy, like in making a real huge taxe on regular market transactions, but low taxes on stores...it leads us to a system that can bring the possibility for players to create their own economics systems, with all goods and bad events... their can be a crush on some systems, you can try to make a system really attractive, of make sure they cant have the goods in attacking the ships that bring stuff in the systems... c. store delivery system :to improve the trade hauler proffession, there can be an improvement on stores : the delivery system :if you buy some offers, there can be bought at the station, or can be bought with some extra-isk with a delivery contract. it can be limited in time, and the cost can be higher for long travels or dangerous one.the seller could choose not to use this, but for thoose who wanna deliver their products, there could be 2 ways :1. they deliver the product by their own members. of course, only corporations with frequent connected people could use this, their can be a reduction for the buyer if the product is not deliver in time.2. let the opportunity for others players to accept such delivery contracts, with a collateral of course."
"anyone interested?if no i can close the subject"
"supported, though it'd need to be done right to prevent abuse. basically bring back the old isd volunteer system but with a couple of changes: 1. instead of new isd-specific characters, use existing player characters, for increased transparency.2. give them a \"hall monitor\" badge like the csm members have, in lieu of blue bars.3. limit their powers to editing/removing/locking threads; leave the bannings strictly in the hands of ccp employees, although volunteers can submit recommendations for bans to ccp.i'm tired of hammering the report button on everything i see. what moderation there is is generally good, they just need way more of it. but under the existing system that means extra expense for ccp, so volunteers should be recruited again to make up the difference.death to ****posters (in-game)./ben"
"i'd like to moderate ccp forum moderators. some of them cross the line"
"that."
"mob mentality ruins this idea...obvious fail idea is obvious."
"^^ i think this sums up why this would be a terrible idea (though i bet zastrow is an incredibly nice person and all...)"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.i suggest that the capacitor display to revert to what it was before today's stealth update. the new one is very dim and a is big strain to the eye. if ccp think it look ok on their monitor and does not wish to change, i suggest an alternative that every customers would be sent a similar monitor on their first payment.edit: the gloss effect doesnt help either."
"what did you do to your computer, man? the \"before\" is how it looks for me now, i've never seen anything like the \"now\" pic."
"why'd you put your computer in the kool-aid?"
"i only noticed a subtle difference in the cap display before and after dominion. before was exactly like on the \"before\" image, now the luminescent orange bars have ugly borders, i.e. the alpha channel got screwed / replaced by a hard edge."
"due to all pos items being removed on the test serverwe are finding it difficult to test in deep 0.0 and wh's.we fully understand that these items where removed to stop tacticalinformation being used while testing but is it possible to leave thecorp hangers and ship maint arrays.currently we can only test with the ships we are in at the time off the givenmirror.thank you"
"/supported"
"it's not a technical proposal, just a request.all moderns operating systems offers users accounts renaming since users are identified by their ids and not by their names. i hope eve is not more complicated than that in the way users accounts are handled.a lot of corporations and public agencies have regular account renaming policies for high security accounts. that's not new, and not unusual.it's just a security feature, without any impact on the game mechanics."
"i too support the bashing of proposals without having read or understood them.eve accounts do have an id.accounts get hacked even when the information was not shared in any way. there are many ways this could happen. you mention legal aspect, but if in fact ccp refuses to offer basic security services like account renaming it might get legally held accountable for incidents. improving account security (and theres plenty of issues) is in the interest of both players and ccp."
"it looks highly unlikely to me that they bruteforced passwords. i hope ccp notices when someone tries thousands of different passes on an account."
"we talk about accounts named used in more than one service, including eve. even the eve account is used outside the game in multiple places : test server, forum login, account management login, evelopedia login..."
"during character login most of the clients chatwindow data is stored in clientside (cached) files, and will always pop up when a character logs in (be it local, alliancechat, player channels, marketwindows, fittingwindows or any other window).my suggestion would be to add a bitvalue on window-states when minimized, so that a window-state of \"minimized\" is stored clientside when logging off, thus allowing the pilot to log back in to how he/she left the client during logout.forcing all windows into \"open\" state on login makes most pilots have to resort to start minimizing windows if they have a lot of them, instead of going into direct playmode from their last 'stored' session clientside.i know programmer-time is scarse, so as usual this is just a mere suggestion to increase 'functionality' on a clients side, while allowing players to get into action quicker (not having to minimize all their channels)."
"1. click the settings tab in the market window. there is an option to automatically refresh market data...i leave mine unchecked and don't have any issues. if i need to refresh, i do it manually...no problem.2. yes, the lp store needs to have some changes to make it easier to use."
"no way.personaly i'd rather see ghost training reintroduced, but can live without it and understand the reasons for its removal (real and fake)."
"keep in mind they fly to iceland for the meeting between now and then"
"we do? i was told to take a stroll :pon a serious note, you we are having a 4 days of meetings with ccp in between 2 meetings, so the break is not as big as it seems."
"/supported"
"make black ops the only type of vessel that can scan out another cloaker, should make things more interesting... ow and give the darn ship a covops cloak so it can move around in enemy space."
"isn't that always how it is they try to \"not make a solo pwn ship\" and instead they nerf the **** out of a ship till no one ever wants to fly it, and some races seem to get hit even worse than others"
"did this go anywhere?"
"this is a good post and yes i'm aware of this too, even the magic corp where the magic insurance money comes from (probably few people cared to dig this deep though)this is not highly illogical, in fact i'll tell you a true story. pandemic legion (consisiting of corps snigg and nesw for this example) says not to shoot their friends sot or else they will punish me. i am a member of snigg and they insure 100% all of my ships. i kill a sot member anyways. pl punishes me and they kill my ship. my corporation however doesn't care about all of that, they still pay for my ship because that was the deal they made with me and because they have the right to distribute the isk to their corporation members as they see fit.try studying national vs states rights in american history. member states have the power to control a lot of their own decisions and provide their own programs and the national governement has no say in some cases. makes perfect sense to me.nice try though.as for all the other whines, i highly suggest you try suicide ganking before you complain. saying things like \"i've heard from some troll on c&p that gaining sec status back is totally easy\" makes you look like a complete imbecile. if there wasn't strict rules and punishment for suicide ganking discouraging such behavior, high security space would be dead years ago. you are just attacking one style of play because you are going emo about imaginary space ships on the internet, get a grip it is working as intended as stated by ccp."
"i don't see how suicide ganking of miners or haulers can be called pvp or 'combat'. they're attacking defenceless ships. pretty pathetic really.now i've never lost a ship to suicide ganking, but i wonder what goes through the mind of a new player to eve. one who has spent their first few weeks/months mining away, saving up for that hulk of their dreams, never leaving hisec, only to see it destroyed in an instant. i'm sure ccp looses a few subscriptions over this.hisec is supposed to be hisec. if people can attack others when not at war without significant consequence, and make a lot of isk from it to the detriment of others, then there's an issue with the concept.suicide ganking should be a tactic which costs the attacker, not reward them."
"this change does make sense."
"if you gank someone, your ship will be destroyed; the insurance will cover it. the security standing hit is fixed; you will have to gain it back. the only risk is whether you actually kill your target or they get away. that is the primary reason you find gate camps with 40 plus kills in the same system in high-sec by the same person. the person being attacked is risking everything. what is the point of recouping your losses when the only thing you have to look forward to is the next high-sec gate camp?where is the balance?"
"i agree with removing insurance for concord related events, this has actually been promised by ccp in a devblog, so if csm raises it again, now with the insurance issues, it may finally come to pass.furthermore, suiciding should not be refunded either.devblog where ccp fear promises \"removal of insurance in concord related events\" :"
"i fully support this proposal.it's really dumb to pay insurance on concord kills."
"currently suicide ganking is free and has no risks.and in ccp own words \"everything\" in eve should have a risk.the system is broken and needs to be fixed .... easiest way is remove allinsurance payouts for ships that are lost to concord / self destruction.then ccp go and fix the insurance ammounts."
"not even close ...... currently the system is broken. you can suicide for free and only the targetloses. no skill there what-so-ever.remove insurance and make it an art. maybe add a skill (for example) insurance fraud which give a chance for youto receive an insurance payout."
"guys, guys, i've got solution for insurance problem:nerf mining and mission loot -> mineral prices rise -> insurance payout isn't greater then market ship price"
"okay, this was dated december 3, 2009:"
"passed 7 for 2 against, so i'd expect it to be on the agenda for the iceland meeting next (?) week."
"after reading the entire thread i agree with tagami's proposal conditionally.as a mission runner myself i am curious as to how this would affect the pve aspects of the game. oddly enough i actually fly a rohk most of the time because i like how it looks and tanks plus i haven't fired a missile since they removed missile aoe back in like 05. casual gamer so i could care less about optimal income/time ratio's. sometimes people forget that they are playing for fun and all. anyways...wouldn't this seriously impact the mission community in terms of the dps output of gallante battleship, bc, destroyer, and cruiser hulls? not that seeing fewer ravens would bother me but the unintended side effect of this could be even more farming. wouldn't this push the kronos in a league of its own while the other marauders would get left behind? the vargur already plays little role in the game at all though i enjoy flying it as well. the bonus's may need to be ship specific to avoid an unintended overpowering of ships used for different purposes.excellent work so far though."
"quick answer: golem does 900k dps (siege) out to 45km (drones included), kronos does 760dps (425mm) @ 36+30 km (drones included).so, a railgun damage increase by 15% will take kronos to 875. i don't think that will make it the new fotm. golem will still be the best."
"also where pve is concerned missiles and drones will always rule without very large damage bonuses being applied to other weapons systems simply due to the importance of being able to pick damage types. a 1200 dps railboat ( for example ) would be quite fun fighting against guristas, but would find itself suffering greatly against sansha due to only half of it's damage having much of an effect."
"sounds reasonable enough to me. i would imagine the advantages even themselves out between defender missiles and tracking speed."
"before someone pipes up and says \"but the kronos is a blaster ship...\"with blasters fitted on the kronos, you have to use null, 2 tracking computers (optimal) and 2 tracking enhancers to get 17km+33km for range (kill the computers and you have 15km+26km). either way, null does 948 dps (with 2 mag stabs) at optimal (and you have no option for longer range). void can get you up to 1123 dps, but at a massive range of 8.8km+10km.the golem rolls in with rage torps and 2 ballistic controls at 27km and 1098 dps. additionally, it has the ability to swap for range, giving it 45km with 819 dps.and this is all without bringing the paladin in to make everyone else feel inadequate."
"yeah but you really don't want to use a blaster fitted ship in missions since many ships will orbit outside the range of your guns.the disparity between the marauders is another debate entirely and since i don't really pvp i don't really get involved with that side of the discussion. my main concern is that pvp centric players really only care about the isk generated by mission runners and not the balancing issues that could greatly effect that economy by accident and create more threadnaughts whining about mission runners.marauders are a tricky beast though since they seem to be built for pve but can be employed with great effectiveness in pvp as well(if your willing to risk that kind of isk). most mission runners have moved or want to move into marauders or command bc's for obvious reasons and i don't see any issues with the rail boost for rail fit bc's of any type. they will still lag far behind the alternatives. strategic cruisers are also making a big dent as i have been told the caldari one is better at pve than a golem though i doubt that."
"this is incorrect. my golem has twice the dps and ehps of my tengu. the tengu's superiority is it can be fit for running missions in low sec. but these are missile ships, we're talking about how wimpy rail ships are in this thread."
"like was said above.give it a minimum time per drone, that grows based on damage to a drone (including shield damage), and cost just like you're doing it in a station isk wise.right click on carrier and choose 'repair drones'. might need a 'configure drone repair' selection when you can choose to if you want fighters first or another type of drone.then it just goes through the drones on board and starts repairing the first one it finds that's damaged. this way there is no storage place needed at all and nothing but code need added to the ships, no extra bay or anything.would need some type of indicator in the drone lists that shows which drone is being repaired and how long it has left.also, drones being repaired can't be launched, no brainer.difference between a carrier and a super carrier:carriers can do one drone at a time.super carriers can do three at a time.if you wanted to you could tie it into a couple skills too:drone repair - one additional drone repaired per level in addition to base amount.drone repair reduction - 5% per level reduction in drone repair duration. base time of (whatever base time is decided still applies).just my two cents."
"not supported.it would make carriers too much self-sustainable. there are all kinds of rr mods in all kinds of sizes to repair drones."
"agree, its a stupid ship bonus. 5% bonus to missile damage per level is what it should be. caldari will be able to use more then one type of missile for a change."
"and the lesson from this thread, dont argue with idiots they will only drag you down to their level and beat you."
"full support"
"what is going on ccp, why isnt this problem fixed yet. i just checked how long ago it was when i first had a post with this problem. 13/03/09.whats the point having nice graphics if the sound sucks. shield hardeners are to loud, missile sound cuts in and out. and now i have no targeting sound!to leave something for so long just shows how little you care about the eve community.just fix it!"
"sounds fair"
"done, and added a small additional information on how multiple keys are handled.edit: doh, i should ofcourse support my own proposal (not that it matters, i guess it's not counted anyway)"
"multiple keys are generated, and each of them have different access-levels, and being tagged with whatever you want to name them for future reference."
"pray tell what is this maximum income? i assume you intend to imply it is low enough that the cost a 30mil clone would be problematic for a player who achieved this limit?"
"it is affordable. the issue is players with about 30m sp have access to the exact same isk making mechanics as 120m sp characters. they have the ability to make the same isk per hour as a player with 120m sp but there is a dramatic difference in the cost of the clones for the two. at about 50m sp, a player can have the same capabilities as a 150m sp player with their choice of racial ships. the only difference is how many other races of ships the higher level player can also fly with perfect skills. the dramatic differences in capabilities and income happen early on (up to about 40-50m sp). the dramatic change in clone cost should follow that same trend. i should be paying the same for my clone as someone with 150m sp. whatever the clone price, the difference after about 50m sp is how many shiny things are in the hangar."
"teen rating belongs to hello kitty online or something.if someone is bothered about my character being rude towards them they can pretty much go stick their tongue in dark places. or just push block button."
"if anything ppl should get banned faster for swearing and smack talk .there's enough filth on the internet as it is and though i enjoy part of that filth (and even add to it) i don't think it needs to be part of eve."
"well, this wouldn't change the process of transferring a character via the web site at all, so, the person doing the transfer still needs the account name of the person receiving the character. unfortunately, this is still the \"ccp approved\" method. but, this doesn't affect that process, so it doesn't make it \"more risky\". all the \"magic\" happens on ccp's server end between when you relinquish your character, and when the new owner takes possession. so, it's completely out of anyone's hands and not subject to any 3rd party intervention."
"i really pray that they get this done in the next expansion, hate to compair but sto/bp/other upcoming/new space games are just making me sad at eve effects... the planets and moons were a nice step, but we really need to go further."
"i would love to see all these changes."
"i think 375k is perfectly acceptable, i still think the jump capability is a bit much, what do you think?"
"well, the way i see it, if you take away its jump capability you would have to reduce its cost by a factor of at least 2. maybe something around what an orca costs right now. the reason being, no one would dare take it into 0.0 as it would be popped at the first gate camp.whereas, if you keep it jump capable you give it the ability to survive those kinds of traps. how about give it a range slightly larger than that of a black ops? that would still provide risk with every extra cyno you have to light to get it through neutral/npc space as it travels to and from empire.i like the idea of it costing as much if not more than a rorqual, because it is tech2. most industrially minded tech 2 ships cost between 5 and 10 times their t1 versions.with the jf you of course give up cargo space for the ability to bypass camps. transports give a whole host of benefits over their t1 counter parts.also the price and it being tech 2 (aka crap insurance) is the only way i see to keep it from being used by isk farmers/marcos. with less than 250k ehp you can still gank it pretty easy with cheap fit torp ravens. but like i said without it being jumpable i don't know how to justify a 1 billion+ price tag, without jacking the ore bay to an ungodly level."
"/signed"
"no, do we realy need a aml cerb switching to defenders and negating the entire missial dps of a blob @100km? no thankyou."
"i can see the pros and cons of both arguements made here and one thing is for sure there does need to be some changes to the defenders to make them a viable option for defencive purposes as they are the missles do over shoot their target but are so fast they quickly catch up what if like to see is defenders capable of stopping the likes of cruise missles a heavy defender missle variant with slower speed as for the blob issue bring back mines and im sure blobs wont be getting dropped every 5 seconds but i would like to see a diversion for missles too i personally dont use missles as im gallente so im blaster orientated but would be sneaky if they created a missle that when its about to be struck by a defender splits into 3"
"no, missiles already get low paper dps, and thats before you factor in the explosion radius and velocity. now you just added a tool thats easy to train for, and will almost completely erase all damage missiles do without any real work on the pilot's part.come on people, missiles are ok the way they are and really dont need any \"fixing\"."
"you are confused. missiles have solid dps. they are also more capable of dealing with smaller-class ships than most other weapons systems. their drawback is the launch-to-strike lag. honestly, i don't think defenders are lacking in general. they rarely blow up incoming missiles - either the missiles are too fast or they take multiple defenders to destroy and defenders are too dumb to hit the same missile.i like the op's idea. it would require some serious balancing work though.edit: supporting the idea."
"ok, so who will pay for all these authenticators ? you or ccp, make it optional so people can buy them on their own. also make them a reasonable price, at most $7 dollars.also heck, offer them up as prizes and such for contests. would be awesome in my book as well."
"mr. professional needs two edits for one sentence. cool. you should know this already but you can get around security that limits by ip address. it is hard, but we are talking about super \"hackers\" who are apparently hacking machines at will by users that have everything up to date and never click on a bad link or download something suspicious and use strong passwords...also you must think about the enormous headache this will cause on ccp. by what, you ask? by the people who tick this limit ip option on and have no idea what they are doing and log on at a different computer and can no longer log on. even worse will be the people who think they know what they are doing with limiting their ip and won't be able to log on and go crazy.i'm just happy people are wanting the option to be optional and not mandatory. that was what the earlier threads were all about and a small victory is better than nothing. authenticators, even though they can be defeated, are good for personal security. but having to pay for account security because ccp fails is not cool. i'd rather have account security for everybody rather than having to pay more money to more corporations for something that cannot guarantee security, but hey that is just me.still supporting this proposal."
"signed"
"at the moment an individual can only set standings to a corp or another person.please allow the ability for an individual to set standings to alliances."
"ofc!"
"supported"
"no further argumentation needed."
"as long as this would fix the pos standing bug as well. it is never fun to lose a ship to a friendly pos - almost lost a carrier that way once."
"a thumbs up for one of my ideas..."
"i told you i just question half baked ideas or point out flaws. :)nothing like that found here so thumbs up :)"
"oh my good please stop this. missiles are fine and the way they work dont need to changed. now larkonis was so nice to tell you missile lovers that there are plenty more roles in pvp than just long range. now im going to be nice and post a link a second time. this time please have a look at it. and if missiles are so terrible in pvp explain to why i se a lot of missile boats as top damage dealer and/or final blow on kill mails."
"you should start thinking in solutions rather than in troll phrases.i would support this if it included a way to make defenders useful, for example the introduction of a fast-rof, high cpu low pg 'defender launcher' that would be reasonably effective against incoming 'slow' missiles (ham's and above) and ineffective against heavy missiles and below, but would also require a decent amount of skilling to train for."
"it hinders are abilities to quickly change ships when a fight is coming or in the middle of a fight. more so when dual or tri accounting cause you may be switching screens. imo it should have come with the ignore option in the first place"
"supported!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"supported."
"pls!!"
"this doesn't change the fact that ccp will most likely not start working on a new race within the next 2 years. i think you people greatly underestimate the work that's involved in making a race.i just don't see any reason ccp should give themselves even more of a pain that is balance, than they currently have :/"
"i never said i want a new race or so. i just answered your argument, that cross training is useless.besides ... according to the fanfest presentation ... they might open up jove this year or the year after."
"if i stated it in such a way, that crosstraining would be \"useless\", then that was a wrong way of expressing it.what i meant, was - why would a skilled pilot chose to fly this new race, instead of sticking to what he can fly currently?the only answer i can think of is \"for the lulz\".:/"
"this doesn't belong here.-but-an epix expansion where sleeper and jove ships, skills and mods are introduces would be niiiiiiiice"
"it would make more sense to roll out some of the minor factions as playable races. they would be more on par with the existing races. i mean, the sleepers seem to be a group on par with the jove. sorry to say, but i doubt the sleepers or the jove will ever be a playable race, simply because they are conceptualized as far superior races whose interaction with the other races is more akin to toying with them. to make them playable would be to make them lesser (new characters would start with less skills than existing players) or equal to the other races."
"ability to prevent people from warping to your location.ability to set a message of the day other than the fleet description.pretty simple, suggestion 1 prevents spies from being able to meta-game supercaps / fcs out of cloak.suggestion 2 most people probably wont use, but i imagine the code is already there so why not?"
"dear god please add this!, now i have to load evehq, update the da*n prizm, sort it their to find the high metas, then find those in eve ... oh my god its annoying... please add meta levels to atleast the items table in stations.if this is such a trivial change for them, and such a headache for players why oh god why didnt they just add it in a 0.0.1 release that they've been releasing?"
"supported!"
"i support this lock!"
"this. not supported.and even if it would be implemented, what exact kind of help do you expect from this tool?ehp, a fairly usable cap strain time, resistances and repair rates are already displayed in the current fitting window. all that is currently missing is dps and the ability to de-/activate modules to see their effects written in numbers."
"i expect help in making fits in game. now you have to go to the info tab and look how much cpu and pg module takes, with eft in game it would be much more simple."
"why don't you ask the eft team to implement a local"
"what should be done is removal of whole sbu mechanics."
"sbus should be replaced with occupancy based on players killed within the system, maybe the higher of player ship kills flags vulnerability?"
"i believe the concept behind aggression timers is very sound and i generally like the way it work. i'm sure many will have additional comments. my personal frustration is with the message that appears in the top left corner.if you agress someone in low sec you rightly get global criminal flag. the message appears in the top left hand corner of the screen counting down from 15 minutes.if you dock (or change system ?) your gcc timer gets reset to 15 minutes. however the message in the top left of the screen does not. therefore it's very easy to think your gcc has finished when it actually hasn't. for me either make the message show the correct time or don't show one at all. to exacerbate this issue the warning message you get on undock if you have agression is related to whatever timer display the message on screen. normally when you undock you receive a warning message telling you the you have an aggression timer running. however in this scenario you get no warning on undock...only when the station sentries start firing."
"i recently posted a proposal that tried to collate all of the concerns listed so far about poses, and came up with the best solution i could find. it's not perfect, but i welcome any suggestions to improve it. you can view it here:depotsi currently manage a pos with my alt, and desire desperately for this to be worked out. if done right, the need for a queue should be eliminated, especially now that poses have been removed from sovereignty mechanics."
"yes, poses definedly need some work, they are boring to set up, they are boring and way too complicated to fuel (yay for them needing nearly million different kinds of fuel all burning at different rates and taking different amounts of space) boring to use (flying to the different mods), boring to shoot and boring to take down..."
"proposal for enhanced api management and multiple keys for several access-levels (would replace this request) :"
"one of the proposals voted on by csm 3 - a solution to macro-haulers - received unanimous support among both the csm and player base, and was ostensibly taken to ccp for discussion. however, no mention of the issue or ccp's response is made in the minutes of the relevant csm-ccp meeting, and macro haulers remain abundant in numerous lowsec systems, clogging up local and the overview and feeding the rmt demon.would the members of csm 4 be willing to re-raise this issue or otherwise examine how it has been followed up in their forthcoming meeting with ccp?"
"as has been pointed out several times, part of the meeting in iceland is reviewing all previous csm discussions and the state/lack of progress on them. there is no reason to re-raise it."
"/signed"
"nice troll"
"covert cloak - not fussed.increase jump range by minimum 50% - yes.can covert cyno into hisec space - yes.reduce fuel usage by 60% and then bo led gangs are viable - yeswarfare links - yes please, but can understand why they wouldn't be added.hp / resists are a no brainer - increase them above t1 hulls.can fit probe launcher to scan out cloakers - win. watch bo numbers climb above carriers then. (make it massively skill intensive and keep it there however."
"this. don't really care about the resist, but the rest, it seems so obvious."
"this is a sensible request that doesn't reward illegal activity. and i'd like to support it but, i will however admit that accidents do happen.i've webbed a freighter before with one of my alts, forgetting that he was in a different corp. i only lost a dessy, but essentially mistakes happen and this mistake brought concord. i would have been extremely mad had it been a bs and my only solace would have be that it most likely would be insured. hi sec war decs happen and an accidental clicks on a frigs undocking the same time your war target does could mean concord comes. how frustrating would it be to lose your bs and possible a battle and on top of that not get paid out through insurance? i say frig because even if you limit it to when the non-griefer losses a ship, you rule out the above insta popping of a neutral frig.it's definitely a fair idea at heart, but the butterfly effect is just to big. yes getting ganked sucks, but it's all apart of eve. the lag on a petition response would only grow if insurance was added into the mix.ax"
"thing is... after the first or second incidents... your gonna learn to check before you click for sure.i honestly have no qualms with that."
"and you got these \"facts\" where? i would say 50% is a bit high as law enforcement still solves cases that are considered 'cold'. then there are the percent they know who did it and they fled to somewhere the us can't get them or are searching for them.actually that's a good idea, maybe when you gank someone your sec status should drop to -10 for 48 hours and make you stay in lowsec or a station as the law is still looking for you. or maybe if you get caught you should be jailed for a few months play time depending on the crime and the amount of stuff stolen. i mean lets put a real life twist on it since you want to do that so badly.all i hear from you is crying.you admit you're a ganker, thus we know you know how to gank. you do not go after those low key targets you wait for that juicy fat paycheck to come rolling by and gank it. instant payday with no loss as you get paid back for you ship plus what you scored in loot.most of us know how it works and have seen it done or have done it before ourselves.the way i see it right now and how insurce is paid out for gankers is like having your insurance company come out to your brand new car and torch it and hand you a check for it and say thanks call us when you get your new car and rack up a few hundred miles.most, not all, suicide gankers and whining little kids who can't hack it in low sec or null space so prey on the helpless. a friend of mine got popped by some and got a new ship. he was on his way back when he ran across the fools who popped him he proceeded to space them all and all they did was complain because they were in shuttles and it was unfair...you sir need to go get a real life and stop crying.wrong t1 ship insurance prices are base loosely around mineral prices. this is why most gankers use t1 and not t2 or t3."
"i support this inquiry.since i came back to eve from a 3 year break, i see suicide ganks all over the place. it's just insane whats happening here and actually it is rediculous.if you rob a bank and police shots and ruins your car, the insurrance company wouldn't pay for it either.i mean, we are at the point where even without ganking people make money from blowing up their ships. (insurrance fraud.)please adjust proper concord action and please remove insurance payouts for suicide gankers."
"eve epic failure #327: suicide ganking and getting insurance payout for it.definitely supported! suicide ganking is a crime like any other within eve. only difference is, that ccp rewards this type of crime with insurance payouts what is ridicoulus. please ccp, do something about it."
"here's an idea--don't fly a 200 mil mining ship at all if u can't handle the risk of that much afk income. use a covetor--it's an inconvenience, nothing more. if it's too much to lose for u, \"don't fly what u can't afford to lose\". sound familiar? it's only high sec, not complete sec.don't get caught and u won't lose it. the only ppl who lose their cargo r the ones who r too stupid to adapt.if that's the way u see it, then u need to get outside sometime 'cause this isn't reality.1. and what do the 10+ blobs infesting low sec and 0.0 qualify as?2. gotta love those killrights, huh? why don't u follow your friend's example next time then?3. refer to previous quote reply."
"if you're going to gank me, then gank me. if you are going to gank sombeody else, then gank somebody else. but giving them a refund for the ship they used and the loot/cargo is as stupid as smelling a carton of milk to see if it is bad when you areadly know that it is."
"u mad?"
"u gonna elaborate, troll?"
"herr's argument fails because we have seen that increased suicide ganking doesn't impact mineral production enough. the reasons are because most of the production is outside hi-sec, or isn't made transportable and gankable enough to disrupt.suicide ganking is just preying upon one class of ships that can't actively respond with little risk to the ganker. if you don't want to change insurance, boost the tier 1 industrials and mining barges to have a chance to withstand or escape it before concord arrives."
"the sec status loss is completely trivial, only few hours of ratting in 0.0 with a stealth bomber can fix that with relatively low risk, as i'm sure every active suicideganker knows.i wonder what would happen if the security status wasn't affected by npc kills but you would only gain it by killing player pirates? would make really difficult to pirates re-enter high sec., and force them to turn more on each other i guess. perhaps it would also force them to use alts in getting back the sec status instead of just going for the npc rats (by having an alt to become criminal, then podding him repeatedly). would probably cause lots of tears among the sunday pirates and suicide gankers. (disclaimer: i'm not suggesting this to be implemented, just wondering what would happen.)also, the problem with kill rights is that they're broken. they don't extend to the corpmates so you're all alone against (probably) a competent pvp pilot. can't hire bounty hunter to do the dirty work either. the problem with kill rights relates more to the lack of mechanics that would allow proper bounty hunting, rather than suicide ganking/piratism in general. so in practice kill rights are rarely excecuted.in the end the problem with insurance isn't just that it's paid to concorded ships, it goes much deeper than that. fixing it would probably require at least complete insurance overhaul (to include economical risk in suicideganking), viable system for bounty hunters to operate (to give victims some way to get back to their assailants), and some kind of fix to the huge mineral faucet of missionloot (to make staying in high sec less profitable). all of these have been suggested in various forms, and implementing the fixes in some form would probably balance the high sec a lot. i can't see it happening very soon though..."
"which equates to effort on the ganker to do so, in fact, more effort than afk mining or using a low-end hauler instead of training for a better one.pirates, corpmates, and their alts in crime would just kill each other in rookie ships repeatedly, which would be a lot faster than ratting. 1. if the kill rights were extended that way and the victim was in an npc corp, everyone in it would have kill rights on him, meaning he could be killed roughly 500 times for 1 gank. as amusing as that would be, it would most likely discourage player corps that don't have remotely as many ppl.2. yes, bounty system sucks."
"and this has what to do with the price of beans? who cares if someone loses something to a gank squad. the point is that gank squad shouldn't get paid insurance for doing something criminal.concord is part of the alliance that pays insurance, got it good! so they;re blowing you up and then paying you for it, same this as i described.0.0, low-sec and whole space has nothing to do with what we're talking about here. never once did i said 'i was tired of getting ganked or anything like that.' i wasn't the one complaining about reality, get your facts right. you fail terribly at every single reply in this post. go troll somewhere else, m'kay?as another though from seeing the post two spots up before the troll post right above mine. maybe if you gank in hi-sec your sec status should be frozen from improving for a certain amount of time ( a couple weeks or so ) when you get popped by concord. kind of like being thrown in jail."
"yes please both effects would be nice."
"absolutely right, if we want to do a fair comparison, we should use a paladin, turret ship and armor tank like the kronos. can anyone provide a cookie cutter fit for a paladin? i really have not ever tried to fit one and i will take the suggestions of people more experienced in it than me.then we can compare how a rail kronos vs a beam paladin performs.don't forget this is a thread about boosting railguns."
"the big difference between kronos and golem is that the golem can select the damage it do, the kronos can't.so even if the kronos get approximately the same damage of a golem it is outperformed by it in missions against enemies that aren't kin/therm weak.similarly the paladin do only em/therm, so the golem outperform it when the targets are vulnerable to kinetic or explosive attacks. so, mission wise, a buff to railguns would help missioners against part of the enemies, leaving the golem still ahead if you can't cherry pick your missions. as lasers and hybrids do split damage you need target with low resists to two kind of damage to reach the same efficiency of the golem, that can concentrate his damage against the lowest resist of the enemy.against sleepers the situation can be different."
"right, couldn't really fit all the stuff on the beam pally, but here's what i've come up with (bearing in mind, these are all optimized for mission optimals):[paladin, cookie eater]large armor repairer iiarmor em hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iidamage control ii3x heat sink ii100mn afterburner iitracking computer ii, optimal range2x cap recharger ii4x mega pulse laser ii, scorch l2x large capacitor control circuit i730 dps @ 52km optimal + 13km falloff[paladin, beams]armor thermic hardener iiarmor em hardener iiimperial navy large armor repairerdamage control ii3x heat sink iitracking computer ii, optimal range100mn afterburner ii2x cap recharger ii4x tachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency llarge ancillary current router ilarge capacitor control circuit i753 dps @ 38km optimal + 32km falloff[kronos, rails]3x magnetic field stabilizer iiarmor kinetic hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iidamage control iilarge armor repairer ii100mn afterburner iitracking computer ii, optimal range2x cap recharger ii4x 425mm railgun ii, antimatter charge l2x large capacitor control circuit i601 dps @ 41km optimal + 39km falloffseems to me the rails fall short. let's try a rokh for more range:[rokh, rails]2x power diagnostic system ii3x magnetic field stabilizer iishield boost amplifier iidread guristas x-large shield boostercaldari navy ballistic deflection fieldcaldari navy heat dissipation fieldtracking computer ii, optimal range100mn afterburner ii8x 425mm railgun ii, antimatter charge l3x large capacitor control circuit i481 dps @ 62km optimal + 39km falloffnot that i think marauders are a good benchmark for comparing turrets, but i think any theories about kronos becoming op have been disproven by the above setups. the above are all mission setups, but as marauders are hrdle ever used for anything else, i think that's reasonable."
"it's not fair to compare the ships using tachyons and 425mms (tachyons require so much more pg) and the real equivalence is mega beams anyway. so to do the comparison, i used a paladin with 3 x t2 heatsinks and a kronos with 3x t2 magstabs, both firing close range high dps t1 ammo (i know that paladins use an multis but kronos pilots can't afford using cn am all the time, so i had to make an assumption.so:paladin (t2 megabeams/ t1 multis/ 3 t2 heatsinks): 697 @ 30+ 20km (tracking 0.01914)kronos (t2 425mms/ t1 am/ 3 t2 magstabs): 601 @ 36+ 30km (tracking 0.01653)697/601= 1.16 ... see a pattern here? and that does not take into consideration that the paladin can use tachyons which take it up to 753 @ 33+25 (tracking 0.0174).as a final note, you can't really compare rail kronos to vargur, cause vargur just screams autocannons (70 km fallof with barrage? wtf?)what we consistently see is that as far as turrets go, railguns lack by at least 16% to lazors, which is the closest w/s in relation due to cap usage and range/tracking.i think so far we have conclude that rails really need a boost to their damage by 15% both in pvp setups and in pve. once more, i would like to see if anyone in the csm has taken note or not, and if they feel that there is more justification to be supplied. also, if you agree and support this proposal, ask your corpmates to add their vote."
"i don't think it would make them more self-sustainable than they already should be. carriers are logistical platforms used to support fleets in combat and it would only make sense if they can support themselves in full. therefore they should be able to repair drones themselves which have rendered useless after a fight (although repairing them inside should always remain less efficient than doing this outside, risk vs reward).there are in fact three capital remote arrays which do receive a bonus (armor, shield and cap). the capital remote hull repair system is completely ignored in these bonuses and will remain at a 15 kilometre range unless something is changed about this. seeing that the other two mods are far more useful due to this it's no wonder that the capital remote hull is ignored because it takes up a slot that could be used for something more useful (take your pick; triage, remote armor/shield/cap, smartbomb, dcu). next to that this module has, for capital distances, a very short range because it doesn't have a single bonus.this why i suggested a slow repairing system which isn't useful in combat but useful after combat (being in a pos far away from a station for example) and to add a fast repair system which can only be used in triage but requires a certain amount of fuel."
"supported, though i do think that making it a 'bay' needlessly complicates this just having an icon on each drone in the list that can be clicked to initiate a 4 minute repair cycle which until completed renders the drone unusable. carriers could repair say 2/4 at a time where super carriers repair 5/10 at a time. this would prove especially useful for dealing with incapped drones that clutter up your bay and that often end up being accidently relaunched."
"bam! right in the kisser"
"yes, here have a lollipop."
"why not just make it so there is a 5% supplementary kinetic damage bonus instead of a kinetic damage multiplier? this would allow caldari to remain the \"kinetic race\" while applying the damage bonus to all missiles. problem solved.edit: to clarify, consider these pseudoquations.current bonus: kinbonus = kindmg * (0.05 * skill)proposed bonus: kinbonus = alldmg * (0.05 * skill)this can also be applied to other ships that would call for racial damage, such as sbs and amarr missile boats."
"great ideas all round, some might not be poplular, but your nevre going to make everyone happy.making the game a wholelot more interesting is more important than keeping one type of player happy.fully supported, lowsec needs a big boost, and not to faction warfare..."
"one of the things i have always wanted to see was pirate npc stations in lowsec. not a lot of them, and of course no agents so people can run pirate missions in lowsec without bothering to travel to 0.0.maybe you gotta scan them down or something and then you can dock up and do some stuff.i would just like to see more \"black market\" stuff going on in lowsec associated with pirate npcs. maybe syndicate or angels or serpentis keep a station in placid and sell narcotics to pod pilots who take them to other stations and sell them.or sansha's raid lowsec planets for slaves and sell them to pod pilots who have to smuggle them to amarr or khanid or even other sansha stations in 0.0 for resale.all in all, lowsec is becoming nothing more than a stomping ground for fw corps. less of this and more of the underworld schtuff that i think everyone wants to see."
"off the wall ideas to improve lowsec1. change gateguns. make several different types, each targeting different sized ships. the guns hit for different damage, depending on their preferred target size. frig guns only target frigs and bigger, and do less damage. bs guns hit for huge damage, but only attack bs and caps. each gate has a different mix of these guns, depending on sec status. a .4 system would have a mix of all guns, while a .1 might only have 1 or 2 of the frig or cruisers sizes, and be heavily loaded with anti-bs and anti-cap guns.2. make different security levels mean something. .4 does not allow cynos, .3 allows anchoring of certain sec dependent pos mods (like now), .2 removes sec-status hit for killing anyone with negative status, .1 removes all sec-status hits.3. remove killmails. 4. remove all market taxes in low-sec5. have several \"industry\" centers in each region with 5x the regular number of manufacture, copy, invention, and research slots.6. drastically increase wormhole generation in low-sec. have wormholes be several times more likely in a low-sec system them hi-sec or 0.07. introduce exploration combat sites with decent rewards, and the npcs use sleeper ai. they may switch targets and attack any incoming pirates, instead of the pve player being easily killed because they take all the damage from the npcs and the player pirates."
"i approve of these suggestions."
"please ccp listen to us thumbs up"
"100% support it."
"supported, however i don't think you need a new pos mod, there are already ship assembly arrays. if you can build a whole ship i don't think re-configuring a ship is out of the question."
"yeah, this only makes sense. if you can build ships from scratch in a pos, you really should be able to swap around modular ship parts too."
"nods"
"i sincerely support this measure. fix the damned problem already. 3 of my real life friends and corp mates have left the game solely due to the intolerably terrible audio.everything from onboard, to auzentech to x-fi - it blows for all...i sent in (and so did almost every corp member of ours) in june 2009 a petition ... 1 of 2 times their help simply sucked. i posted about the \"go into setup, disable and re-enable your audio - this generally gets it back for a bit for most. jump an acceleration gate and you must repeat...\" pretty game, but who cares when an invulnerability field will make you want to cut your wrists after 5 minutes of droning. they implemented the \"alarm\" for 25% shields in response to the fact that half the time if you were doing say market stuff while in space, you may not even notice you are getting hammered by pirates! when my subscription is done in september, so am i if this isn't fixed. completely unacceptable for a 6+ year old game. i don't want to see a single tidbit of extra content until this is repaired. \"downgrade\" the audio to pre-apocrypha if need be, but fix it! i am enjoying sto in the mean time and have bought a lifetime sub to it. not as good all'round as eve, but the sound works. kar"
"ok...eve epic failure #258: developing wos and dust 515 instead of fine tune eve and fix sound engine.definitely supported!"
"supported"
"supported.would also like to add the following:'if multiple eve clients are opened, sound will only be played for the first client opened'one of the reasons i have sound turned off usually is that it becomes a mess with multiple accounts and it's too much of a hassle to enable/disable it separately on 3+ accounts."
"read 3 pages and haven't seen a compelling argument against this.supportedax"
"i think this would be one of the high priority things that should be sorted before relasing planetary interaction as it would be a lot harder to fix afterwards.so supported."
"good idea.signed."
"i'd try translating stuff but my german is a little rusty. if however someone else wants to do it i'll be very happy to assist"
"not supported, this is one of the few advantages a new player has over the vets.if you don't like it, roll an alt and pvp with that.or plan in advance and stop training more skills ! :pedit :to op, do you realize that if ccp would implement your proposed graph ( even the updated one), that newbie clones would become more expensive?now definatly not supported !"
"yeah as a high sp char myself i would actually oppose this on the following points.to be podded you have to be in 0.0 (dictor/bubble)if you are podded in empire you deserve to pay iskies :pthe amount of isk a player can generate now a days has greatly improved in dominion.remember the days when it took 3 guys to kill a officer spawn :pand i think the sp/isk clone cost is pretty good."
"don't fly what you can't loose does not work with clones unfortunatly"
"if you want to fly a cheap ship you are going to lose and don't want to replace your clone, roam lowsec instead."
"it is interesting that the forums and the game operate under different rules when it comes to profanity (i found this out when petitioning a word used on a station name that the forums censor, yet the station name was allowed to remain). i'd support a thread that proposes policies between the two be made more consistent, but relaxing them at all? certainly not.you don't like it? don't swear. your lack of self-control is your own problem./ben"
"not supported.grow up, it's all in your own hands, etc. etc."
"not just the turrets need to be enhanced. even the missile system looks like an epic fail to me. best example is the drake. why does this ship have so many missile bays on both sides for when they're not used? it looks so damn silly when a missile is coming right out of nowhere in the middle of the ships belly. not to mention that this is a \"!battle!\" cruiser. in comparison to what the name stands for and what is going on on the screen, when fighting, the drake should be called \"pong cruiser\"cause when fighting it looks like the drake is the bar and the missiles are the dot...just silly. that example matches with every other missile based ship in eve. the bigger the ship gets, the sillier it looks.lord helghast said:1. i would like to see an enhancement to the gun and projectile effects, as currently the effect really doesnt feel powerful at all, we're dealing with things up to 1400mm and yet the effect looks much less satisfying as it stands.the problem is the size of the turrets. they are everywhere the same. on any ship. looks silly too. on a frig the number of turrets are realistic but they are totally oversized. on a battleship where there should be hundreds of turrets if we stick to what the name it's standing for. it's almost the same. they are also totally unrealistic oversized (rokh f.e.) and they are far too few. epic fail in my opinion.i don't speak of changing the stats. keep'em as they are. just match the size and amount of turrets according to the class of ship and as the author of this thread said: the effects. possible way to get this done: implement a turret/missile-battery system on bigger ships. for when you activate one of your turret/missile-buttons a hole battery of beams, projectiles or missiles is firing. matching the size of the effects according to the ships class would have the nice side effect that finally f.e. a battleship would'nt just look like a battleship, it would fight like a battleship and the player could finally feel like a captain of a battleship.please ccp, there is no need in rushing things like walking on stations and dust 514 if there are still bigger issues to solve in eve as they are right now. eyecandy for the players is necessary too to keep them sticked to the game. if the graphical difference between wos and the rest of the game (with all the unsolved issues i mentioned above) will be getting the big like we've seen it on the trailers then this won't be good at all. i'm hoping for the best.by the way: topic absolutely supported!"
"that would be really cool, i whant to see capitals breaking in half upon death, and battleship falling to pieces. in the epic mission arc you can see several battleships torn to shreds and a minmatar dread broken in half. we could use those sorts of wrecks.currently eve is eye-candy while you are in station and orbiting a planet. as soon as someone fires a gun, it starts looking like a dated game with bad effects."
"yes to all of it!"
"mo' eyecandy!"
"full support"
"yes, yes to everything. eyecandy tastes good.also the engine trails added a lot to the game. i really hope this will happen soon."
"engine trails were always optional, with an on/off switch in the client graphics options. no reason why it can't be so again.as for realism, here's a sample justification: a reaction engine will always leave a trail of something behind itself, so the visible trails are the exhausts made visible by your ship's computer to aid in situational awareness with respect to ships' heading and speed. or some variation thereof."
"in this discussion i will attempt to look at the most inferior tier 3 battleship and figure out the reasons for it being underpowered, and possible solutions. in this thread i make following assumptions: 1: it should have it's specific nitche. 2: it should be moderately useful in pvp at least in some circumstances.3: comparing it to abbadon is the most adequate comparison avaliable, as they are both tier 3 battleships with damage and tanking bonus, and are both armor tanks, both have 8 turrets and for fill similar role. out of all tier 3 battleships, hyperion has the weakest maximum achievable tank. i do not want to go into numbers at the moment, but i will, if this point will be argued further on in this thread, prove it. this is largely due to the fact that although it is a tanking battleship, it only has 6 slots available to fit the tank out. i suggest that two of it's mid slots are switched for two low-slots, as that would allow a burst-type active tank running on cap boosters to be used in pvp in small-scale warfare. it would also give a slight boost to it's pve capability, but, firstly the boost is so minisque it can be neglected, secondly it comes nowhere near pve capability even of the said abaddon, not even mentioning the raven, largely due to relatively low dps and poor tracking of railguns. this will also stop those homosexual shield-tanked hyperions showing up on our killboard, because if a ship with bonus to armor tanking is frequently shield-tanked, something isn't right about the ship. the second goal this slot-layout would accomplish is it would allow hyperion to become viable for pvp in two things: tanking and hitting. you would have 8 slots for laying out damage mods and tank, instead of 6 you have nowadays, so it could become a good choice for small scale bs engagements. mission runner would not get hut as they can replace their cap recharger for power relays and keep on running missions, an i do not think those 8% extra cap would make much difference. as you can see i am trying to make hyperion good at what is was intended to do: that is soack up damage and hit hard with blasters. please note that balance of blasters vs pulces or the acitve tank bonus over resist bonus is outside the scope of this proposal, i am trying to make the ship work with what we have. the second part of my proposal can be described by the picture below: please visit your user settings to re-enable images.as you can see, after the ships where fitted with 8 guns each, abaddon has 6450 units of powergrid left, hyperion has 2673.9 units of powergrid left. that is a 2.4 times difference.the reason why this is wrong follows:pulse lasers outrange blasters by the factor of 3. (roughly). therefore there is a 3 times lower need for a speedmod. armor plates consume over 4 times less powergrid then armor repairers. those are the reasons why hyperion needs to have more powergrid then abaddon if anything, because armor repairers consume more power, and blaster boat without mwd is a blasterboat that cannot hit anything. the situation is simply rediculous because hyperion cannot simply fit 8 guns, mwd and an armor repper, and these are the modules that are requred for this ship to forfill it's purpose. i am not even mentioning cap boosters and dual rep tanks. now you can clearly see why hyperion is so inferiour to abaddon. abaddon can fit all the modules it needs. hyperion can't. that needs to be sorted out. hyperion must have anough powergrid for an mwd, 2 reppers, 8 guns and an mwd in order to forfill it's purpose succesfully. therefore i would like to propose the following changes: change slot layout on the hyperion to 8-3-8change the powergrid amount on the hyperion to allow it to fit 2 large armor repairers, a mwd and 8 guns. pros: hyperion becomes a valuable ship, a ship that has a role. cons: abaddon pilots will have competition."
"if you see holes in my proposal, point them out and i will see what can be done. if you have additional suggestions, let's discuss them."
"1. it has its niche in small gang pvp.2. i would rather compare it with the maelstrom as both got rep bonuses.3. an electron/ion blaster fit hyp works rather well with dual rep/dual cap booster."
"right, gallente fly it becasue they have nothing better, it cannot stand up to abbadonmaelstorm is a sniperand then it has less dps then abaddon, less range then abaddon, and less cap then abaddon."
"first the maelstrom isnt a sniper in small gang pvp. ac maelstrom can make a nice hero tank. same as an hyperion.less cap than an abaddon lol. :) amusing. i am pretty sure 1on1 the hyp has a pretty good chance of whining."
"[hyperion, hyperion]damage control iilarge armor repairer iilarge armor repairer iienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iiheavy capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800medium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800faint warp disruptor i'langour' drive disruptor iquad lif fueled i booster rocketselectron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lelectron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lelectron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lelectron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lion blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lion blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lion blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lion blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge llarge nanobot accelerator ilarge auxiliary nano pump ilarge auxiliary nano pump iogre ii x4hyperion has an excellent tank when coupled with implants and boosters (nearly 1200dps before overheat and faction fitting/deadspace modules) i do agree with the proposal of increased pg. this ship should be able to fit 8 ion blaster cannons and two lar's and capacitor boosters with lvl 5 skills. the abaddon does have too much pg. i think this should be reduced. i still have 3k of pg left over after a full rack of top tier pulses a mwd and a respectable buffer.the maelstrom has a good tank with just one booster but with two shield boosters is fekkin' rediculous. especially coupled with implants.active tanking atm is fairly borked. this is due mostly to the effect of blob warfare. local active tanks can't compete with the dps being thrown at them and spider tanking is the only option and this only works if you have enough buffer to survive before calling for reps. i know this far too well. i think the whole active armour bonus to all gallente ships requires revision. i would never active rep fit my brutix and usually prefer to shield gank it which is terrible to a ship designed to active armour tank.moar pg for the hyp would be a small step in the right direction but the problem is much bigger than the hyp. also, it needs those mid slots. it needs a warp scram, web (lack of tracking), mwd and cap boosting. i'd love to be able to fi a tracking computer too but would settle for a +1 low slot for a tracking enhancer, mag stab (god knows where the cpu will come from) or a smidge moar tank. i feel blob warfare should be addressed (although a different topic altogether) along with creating better \"local active tanks\". i know ppl will say no!! i don't want these ships to be unstoppable. they won't be. the answer to breaking an active tank is simple... neuts hurt.supported partially (moar pg but no to less mid slots)"
"we have an option to control click an item in the overview to lock it. it would be equally useful to control click a target icon to unlock it. this would be very useful to logistics pilots, salvagers, and those involved in skirmish fleet battles.not much more to say about it, really."
"ctrl+click is too dangerous. in laggy situations you would often unlock accidently when you want to lock something. so shift+click or alt+click or ctrl+rightclick would be better."
"eve epic failure #303: developing wos and dust514 instead of fine tune eve and get this common feature.supported."
"uh, what?if you're talking about incarna.. well, that's pov.dust 514 is being developed by a completely other area, ccp shanghai.:/"
"good idea."
"obviously not supported.existing factions from pirate to khanid would be a better focus for the amount of resources it would take to do this, or even the plethera of other better thought out proposals in the assembly hall."
"1: don't invite reds to your own fleet? spies you say? part of the game, so you either watch recruiting, or try to find them by spieing yourself.2: as you said yourself, why use it?=> not supported"
"why has this not been implemented already?"
"supported!"
"supported."
"eve epic failure #153: developing incarna and dust 514 and keep player owned spacestations in eve online look like junk in a bubble.starbases should look like starbases and not like a bunch of space junk in a blue bubble. definitely supported!"
"since u want realism in a game (yes u do because u can't stop associating a game with real life), try addressing these as well:1. concord leaving all the belt rats and mission rats alone, who r also technically pirates, harassing any player there. in fact, i don't recall any loitering concord ever shooting down belt rats when they come.2. isolated low sec systems being low sec, even if they're completely surrounded by high sec systems3. insurance being paid for any ship lossr u saying u want to change this, as well as every other realism issue in this game as well? how about when one of the 2 pvpers shoot first in low sec loses out on insurance (since it's a criminal act), while the one who did not shoot first gets the safety of insurance to fall back on. then again, u wouldn't care either way, right?1. if 0.0, low-sec, and wormhole space were irrelevant, then what do u really mean by \"suicide gankers and whining little kids who can't hack it in low sec or null space so prey on the helpless\"? what would u consider succeeding in low sec/0.0 then? blobbing the...helpless prey because they r greatly outnumbered? oh that's right--u probably don't even know because u're never there.2. and yes, u r tired of being ganked--u don't have to say it. 'cause as a result, u retreated back to high sec to hide behind concord. and now that's not enough for u because u don't want to take your own precautions to protect yourself when u finally realize u're not safe in high sec (with emphasis on high sec, not complete sec). u want concord to do all the work for u.3. even if it's only removing insurance, all they have to do is use cheaper ships and more ppl to compensate and there goes that idea.4. and yet another real-life reference in a post from someone who claims he's not about realism so if anyone's a fail troll, it's u."
"exactly.the objections to the sensible, logical step of removing insurance for ships that are destroyed by concord always boil down to pirates crying over the possibility that they might not make no-risk money by shooting fish in a barrel anymore."
"i live in null-sec and whole space and i wasn't the one who wanted realism, read the whole thread i responded to herr wilkus (which is who you probably are and trying to deflect) and his whole realism thing. i don't think people who go out and gank people in hi-sec and lose their ships should get paid for their ships as it's a criminal act in hi-sec. it doesn't matter if you accidentally shoot a friend and get concorded or what you shouldn't get paid for a criminal act in hi-sec.i have never been ganked. hard thing to have happen when you don't live in hi-sec.referenceing something as punishment, as i did when you keep screaming about realism, to being thrown in jail doesn't mean i'm wanting realism. i was simply saying, a freeze on sec status for people ganking (or doing any criminal act in hi-sec) would be a nice punishment, kind of like jail. it's the kind of like part that's the clue here.you responded to my response to herr wilkus (you) and his whole realism take. again go troll somewhere else please."
"i have never been ganked. hard thing to have happen when you don't live in hi-sec.referenceing something as punishment, as i did when you keep screaming about realism, to being thrown in jail doesn't mean i'm wanting realism. i was simply saying, a freeze on sec status for people ganking (or doing any criminal act in hi-sec) would be a nice punishment, kind of like jail. it's the kind of like part that's the clue here.you responded to my response to herr wilkus (you) and his whole realism take. again go troll somewhere else please.1. u claim to live in 0.0 and wormhole space, yet u're pushing for a buff to high sec with the intention to deter suicide ganking.2. and what u're saying is it's harder to be ganked in 0.0 and wormhole space than it is in high sec?3. or is it that since u don't live in high sec, u think u know everything there is about it?4. but since u claim u've never been ganked, u wouldn't need this change in the first place...is that right?5. and since u say u don't care for realism at all, why should someone not be paid for doing something criminal just for the sake of it other than u wanting to deter a game mechanic that u claim has nothing to do with u?6. another nerf to sec being \"kind of like\" jail is still kind of like realism because u're alluding to realism--it doesn't matter what u sugarcoat it with, especially if u're gonna dismiss someone's realism, saying that realism doesn't matter, and still make another reference to it yourself.7. add this all up and as a result:a. u're lying u about living in 0.0 and wormhole spaceb. the fact is, u live in high sec with all the proposals u made to make it safer for u so u don't have to spare the effort for a little precaution.c. when someone's lying out their own ass, demonstrates hypocrisy, and constantly accuses someone else of being a troll, it just shows that they have nothing else to back themselves up with."
"it's 'you' not 'u'.just because i don't live in hi-sec doesn't mean i have never lived there or that i don't travel through there at some point.yes i am, you don't have 100 loosers sitting in saftey around a gate all day waiting to gank some guy carrying a nice load a stuff. most null-sec and such have escorts and they actually can defend each other while not in hi-sec. so in null-sec/whole/lo-sec space you bring friends and they can actually do something other than watch you explode. you see someone camping a gate out there and you drop your own fleet on them, can't do that in hi-sec.everyone starts in hi-sec at some point we all had to learn, most people constantly travel to it or through it at some point. no, i never said i know everything about it, but i have seen enough when i used to mission run.again, just because it has never happened to me doesn't mean i don't have friends it has happened to or that i don't have an opinion on it. or are you saying people aren't allowed to have an opinion on it and this is why you're attacking me?because, it's a retarted mechanic plain and simple and if you can't see that that is your problem not mine. just because it doesn't affect me, doesn't mean at some point it won't. it doesn't mean i can't have an opinion as i'm part of this thing called eve.i made the reference based on a reference by another person and for no other reason. i never said realism doesn't matter, stop putting words in my mouth. using a reference to something real world doesn't mean i want realism it's just a reference, nothing more, stop reading into it.oh my maybe they should remove outlaws all together because i mean it's realistic. we have outlaws in the real world, maybe they should remove bounty hunting too while they're at it. roses, missiles, bullets, lights, stars, planets, list goes on.again, think what you want. according to you i'm not allowed to have an opinion, and as such i get attacked and called a liar while you have no proof of it.do you have proof i'm lying? i have proof i live in whole space and null-sec. that is why i call troll, because you keep attacking me and making accusations or try to put words in my mouth.i'm finished have said what i needed."
"so u still had the mental capacity to understand what \"u\" means? ok then. and u think i'm the troll here... because i am so bored atm, i'll feed your trolling. autopilot through high sec in a shuttle. then autopilot through low sec and 0.0 and see the difference. and did u ever consider instead of relying on everyone else to protect u, u could...protect yourself? u know, actually think for yourself instead of letting everyone else do it for u?so plz describe exactly what u saw for once instead of just pushing for eve to support your friend's stupidity.no--what i'm saying is u're not gonna know the whole truth unless u've been there yourself. did u ever think that maybe he was just being lazy or careless and he just wouldn't admit it?whether or not u somehow think it is, it still doesn't compare to the fact that your friends didn't take any precautions when hauling, which is why it happened to them in the first place. this is just an excuse to cover for your friends' inability to think and adapt.yes it does mean u want realism because by referring to it, u suggest u want the mechanic to become \"more like\" the reference. only u just want it to a degree that suits only u and your friends, who just won't learn from their mistakes.u're allowed to have an opinion. however, u're also expected to support it well. and that does not include u and your friend's incompetence in adapting to the mechanics because u still never once answered my question, \"did u ever try actually taking some precautions?\" all u've done is complain about how ppl capitalize on their stupidity, laziness, and inability to adapt. the reason i repeat this over and over again is that's what this all boils down to. and until u do answer that question, it's pretty safe to assume they never did and never will."
"please please please"
"well, all the fits i listed work as far as grid goes, so i think it is a fair comparison. you can try to load them up in eft yourself to check. the beam pally is also cap stable without ab and lar running.besides, no matter how much you twist it around, the rails still fall short. the tiny little bit of extra range just doesn't justify the massive drop in dps/tracking.edit: all the other setups (apart from the rohk) are cap stable without the ab running."
"i am not twisting anything around. i say it straight as a ruler. rails need 15% more damage and caldari railboats need 10% more grid."
"i still contend that more range would not hurt my feelings - otherwise i can get behind this. :)-liang"
"supporting, though the solution need not be exactly what was proposed in the op.someone mentioned that by nerfing laser/projectile range, those ships would fit more range mods to compensate. from my limited sniper bs experience (mostly eft), at least on projectile ships it wouldn't work like that. they already fit 3 or 4 range mods, another range mod would give less effective dps than a damage mod most likely.if fleets do manage the whole 'different ranged ships warp in at different distances' then it could have some merit, i just don't see it ever working in practice in the 100+ man sniper fleets.. any benefit will be lost to complexity.increasing rof and decreasing cap usage was suggested as well. this would increase lag, and already in some fights guns will get stuck etc, making alpha much more useful than high rof or even dps. best to fix lag though, rather than balance around it, but it's worth noting anyway."
"would like to see this."
"you want 5% dps increase for all damage types that caldari have access to?why don't you give us amarr kinetic and exp damage dealing crystals.give gallente and caldari railboats their emp and exp hybrid charges.perhaps a buff for minmatar projectiles.once we get those, then you can have your 5% rof bonus instead of your 5% kinetic."
"so, some updates...i sent a bug report with a description of all the problems most of us are having and in their reply they said that they can't reproduce the problems on their computers. they also said that my driver was old but the last driver that creative made for my model (x-fi fatal1ty) was in july 2009.anyway, i switched to my onboard card (realtek hd audio) installed the latest drivers (22 jan 2010) and i must say that eve sounds a bit better. it's not perfect, but definitely an improvement.so if you also have realtek on the m/b try downloading the new drivers and pray (the latter is the most important one)..."
"i'm curious as to what version of the wwise sdk framework is being used. for some reason, eve can't load vorbis data, so i would imagine it'd be pretty outdated. wwise has supposedly come a long way in features and quality since 2008.whether a current framework is being used or not, i'd like ccp to give a rat's ass about the obvious sound issues in this game."
"ccp should be embarrassed that they can't even the fix sound on their game with everything that they're doing.i think its crap that the player base should tolerate this. this problem has gone for too long and needs to end now!we need more people demanding crap control productions to fix sounds."
"the fact that your onboard sound card works better is probably because there are no advanced features used, or perhaps you may have indeed have better drivers for the onboard sound card than you had for your creative.either way, you encountered a noob gm that was selling you bs.i have tested with 3 different systems and 4 different sound devices, this does not fix the issues.in the end i am using an x-fi music with latest drivers and all advanced features turned off ( eax,d advanced features in windows 7, etc ).this works just as good ( read : bad ) as onboard sound or a logitech usb headset ( which is a sound device in itself ).previously i had all my test hardware described in the op, but i ran against maximum character limit so removed it in favor of listing more sound issues. ( i edited op to add part of my testing back )like i said, it is not a client hardware or os/driver problem, but a problem with the eve software."
"i totally agree with you there, but having to deal with noob gms is, unfortunately, part of the process.i can't believe that anyone is unable to reproduce the problems on their systems and that just leads me to one of 2 conclusions.1. they follow the general line \"sell a lot of bs when they ask you for sound problems\" or2. they programmed the sound so that it works only on the specific hardware configuration they use (i asked them to give me a configuration that actually works. of course no reply there). anyway, seems that no sound fix is on it's way and i thought i'd give some updates that might or might not help the others."
"i welcome your efforts for the cause, and perhaps i should also file another petition and bug report, and keep bugging them until they acknowledge the problem or give me a working spec.i have quite a bit of hardware at my disposal to test, and if they tell me to get some exotic hardware, then i'll go get it and tell the players and ccp about my findings. but i am pretty certain that no one at ccp can give me a computer spec that actually works 99% of the time."
"back to page one with this.it's as bad for the in game economics as ghost training was bad for ccp's wallet."
"+"
"i support the op 100%. if i wanted to do pvp, there's plenty of other online games that were created for that.forcing players to play this game a certain way when they don't want to is just plain wrong and will just force them to quit playing this game instead.ccp needs to wake up from their fantasy dream and take a real good look at the game the way it is being advertised.by the way, you had better change the eve online ad's for this game before you get sued for false advertisement. i'm sure there's plenty of hungry lawyers that would love to get a piece of this."
"supported.even if this doesnt affect me in any way, as i don't run any missions for gallente. but since these new mission were added every gal mission runner i know has either switched to a different faction, or stopped running missions all together. you would think that after all these years ccp would have learned that you can't force the hi-sec playerbase into things like this.on the other hand i think these missions would probably be a good idea if they were offered as normal missions, not storylines. that would at least make them more of an option as they could be rejected fairly easily"
"who ever implemented this idea was clearly inebriated or on drugs. i think ccp should strip him of his position for such incompetence."
"while the core of the proposal might be right, i cannot support its current text as it's mainly a rant."
"i think you're wrong :1st : epic mission is for fun, the point is not gaining rewards such lp's or standing.if you want standing/lp/rewards... just do normal missions.2nd : you dont need a pve ship to do an epic mission, all epic need lot of skills/ships... its a funny story you can do with friends in eve. mostly, i use pvp ships that are most efficient for this kind of mish, and by the way the epic missions are very doable in pvp ships.3rd : stop about complaining and return in your secure space play with boggles in mining ^^"
"re-read the op. no one here is speaking about epic arc. what we are speaking about are regular storylines for running regular missions.only gallente (and i stress than only) have got those experimental missions added at the last moment before dominion (not that missions get much testing, but those had no testing at all)."
"ccp( most likely) and csm ( for sure ) are just ignoring the issue."
"seeing some of the \"crucial\" issues that have been voted in the recent csm meetings i should agree."
"i live down in solitude so its normaly a min of 32 jumps to get to the mission site for these.so yes i suport this however, i would be happy with these missions staying ingame but only if when your given them, you are also given a normal storyline so you can choose one or the other."
"i propose that if and when the intaki system is retaken from caldari occupation by the gallente militia, it is taken off the list of threatened systems and given a security status of at least 0.5. from the standpoint of the game's storyline, there's no way, after all the political turmoil the loss of the system has caused the federation, that they would not make a more convincing attempt to secure the system. the current situation, with the homeplanet of one of the federation's founding races, containing billions of federal citizens - occupied by an enemy force with absolutely no effort by the federation navy to reclaim it - simply does not make any sense at all.even prior to fw, the fact that two systems so important to the federation - mannar and intaki - were left defenceless while lirsautton, the seat of the jin-mei - one of the federation's newest members - was hi-sec space, was exceptionally inconsistent. i accept that the federation cannot possibly have the manpower to guard every colony, but the fact that they'd make no effort whatsoever to guard the home planets of two of their founding members just doesn't make sense.to summarise:if and only if the intaki system is recaptured by the gallente federation:take intaki out of the gallente militia zoneraise intaki's security status to 0.5 (or higher, if those in charge of plot think it is appropriate)if necessary for purposes of game balance, add one or more other gallente low-sec systems to the gallente militia zone"
"this is a good idea working it could be intresting but for systems so important it does seem that there excusion from high sec is rather daming of the federation which would raise the question why these races suport the galenti when security in there space hasn't been made a priority.but yes most definatly signed."
"agreed. the fact that intaki isn't a highsec system is ridiculous."
"it's time the new federal government stops playing there politiocal games and starts funding there navy and tightening security around here. as s sitisent of gallente federation, i approve this message."
"i am not hardcore roleplayer but having intaki as lowsec system is bit weird and illogical. so yeah. i support this issue. no matter how caldari i am."
"valid point. though just slapping it 0.5 would be silly would like to see some ic storyline leading to this, maybe have ishukone involved in all this.anyways i've always found it rather peculiar that intaki has been a low security system, for the afore mentioned reason that it is one of the cornerstone worlds of the gallente federation."
"it would be nice to have a highsec island here. it would also be nice if more lowsec systems were created around intaki."
"this would be like khanid prime being low sec. or saisio being low sec. it really does need to be fixed. it seems kinda silly that they would even let such planets be undefended. or fall. unless the gallente federation really is in dire straights. perhaps their position of power is weaker then we thought?could we see the entire gallente federation crushed under the heel of a combined caldari/amarr fleet?i hope not. high sec status for intaki please."
"agreed. there are several other gallente systems that can be added to the fw warzone in the place of intaki if necessary for balancing purposes (several parts of low sec verge vendor for example)"
"they cahnged the sec status of sarum prime a long time ago, so there's no reason why they couldn't do it for intaki."
"this would be fantastic to see. and at long last, facwar would seem to have some significance."
"yep."
"agreed. although i too would like to see a story line about it."
"interesting idea, this has my support"
"more things like this would make fw worth it. :)-liang"
"the intaki in the back story seem to prefer a lack of concord.after such hostility in the pf and the game i would like to see the intaki react against the external forces over all and change their status to 0.0, free from all external law and concord.kinda like the intaki syndicate and the mordus sov has now"
"as an intaki i support this message."
"on really low priority, yes. this will add some consistency to the game."
"with oauth and separate scopes the user could choose which parts of the api to allow on a per-site basis.without the need for any copy+paste of api keys as the keys are generated and swapped by the code in the background.from a simple user interface that very basically prompts the user without any complexity.this would bring the new spacebook into line with other social networks.the old api key system should be replaced rather then hacked at."
"the main idea about this proposal is about extending the api so it can allow for just that - separation of privileges to read specific parts of the users api. if it's done by oauth or an inhouse-mechanism is (for the user) a non-issue, as long as the user controls what is given out infowise. in oauth this is done using tokens that the user must create and manage (or a realtime selector (ajax anyone? :p) on ccps site) for the restrictions that a calling service (external webserver or software) should have on their request. thus meaning that a selector must/should exist from ccps side (the token creator mechanism), which is what i propose above. in short the user must first create the token within his/her rolemanager (in ccps backend), create a specific token, and then tell that to the calling service (same functionality as the current api gives).(a calling service will see only the info given out by the grants from the token itself - this is how oauth works).- oauth_tokenthe temporary credentials identifier.- oauth_token_secretthe temporary credentials shared-secret. as you can see, these credentials are close to the same as is active per today, where the user has already created a set of tokens (full/limited) and given them to sites/tools/software that exists, with access to poll specific data only. again as mentioned in my first post, and now clarified. if you still think my interpretation is wrong, you might read the ietf draft regarding oauth and the examples for google apps with oauth.specifically this example (which is very similar to what already exists)."
"yes, please translate the relevant information into every language in existence. that'll save so much time in the long run."
"[a bit of offtopic]about russian localisation.what need to be fixed:no translation of any \"names\", would that be a ship, type of the ship, a module, or just some market comodity. the worst problem for russian community after ccp bring second localisation was in misunderstanding between ppl who used native latin names, and those who used translated cyrillic names. those are not just a names, in eve it more like a technical-names. just like as no one ever will translate core worlds in technical language of programming or system administrarion, as no one should translate similar names in eve.also, no translation should be done for missions and plexes names, as otherwise ppl simply will fail to find proper info about them, and also can experience missunderstanding about \"which exactly mission you are talkinf about?\" with those who use english language in eve. or at least always give both russian and english names for missions and plexes, for example \"worlds collide(<U+043E><U+043B><U+043A><U+043D><U+043E><U+043D> <U+043C><U+043E>)\".lastly. any translated text that players found inconvenient, should be disscused on both eveonline.com and eve-ru.com forums. ccp (or at least isd members that can contact ccp latter) should constanly observe such disscusions, and if correction of translation will gain enough of support from other players, ccp should fix it asap... without any aproval from 3rd side company.in fact, i dont even know who is exactly currently that 3rd side company that doing russian localisation. what i do know (and now only me) that those ppl didnt even try to contact eve-ru community to check if they do something wrong. seems like they pretty much happy with money ccp pays them for localisation, and dont worry about actual quality of it.and the quality is still awful."
"yeah, i like this 1. active tanks defiantely need some love."
"yes please.this has kept me up some nights and i've tried to raise the subject earlier in \"features and ideas\":"
"i can get behind an active tank boost. :)-liang"
"two things to consider:1. the non-viability of active tanks is related more to the fact that buffer tanks don't need to rely on capacitor to work, whereas a couple of curses can tear a hyperion's capacitor apart in a few cycles. if you want to restore active tanking's viability, something about capacitor management needs to change. neuts need to get weaker, or boosters/reppers need to use less capacitor, or ships that are intended to be actively tanked need to get a bonus to booster/repper cap usage.2. why is this a con?"
"support for all of it."
"i can not iterate just how much more awesome this game would be with all this cool stuff.esp the point on having battleships have heaps of guns (but staying the same as they are stat wise). that would just look awesome!so don't argue it ccp - do it!"
"i like the idea of an ore only hauler that hauls alot of ore, but the jump drive is a bit much to be honest. don't know why this should be a t2 orca though, i think it would need it's own model. how about just a dedicated line of ore haulers? industry needs some love.supporting the idea of a dedicated ore hauler."
"there is no need for this whatsoever. it was a bad idea in fid and a bad idea here. mining was fine before the rorqual was added and even better before the orca was added. now highsec mining is a ***damn cakewalk. by your own admittance the orca is a \"boni spewing mega gsc\" with a warp drive, it is already a hauler. there is no need for a rorqual that can use stargates and a jump drive. if you want a better nullsec hauler than an orca, use a rorqual to jet a freight container which hulks can mine into and a freighter can scoop from (btw rorqual has more ore space than a jf has cargo). if you want a good highsec mining hauler for systems w/ no station:hulks mine into an orcaa full orca warps to a highsec pos in system and dumps ore into corp hangarorca warps back to the belt for hulks to mine into (hulks can take a cycle or 2 while the orca is offgrid, jetcan if you take too long)freighter flies inbetween the station and the pos hauling the oreit's easy. eve isn't meant to be a simple single player game, make friends.your ideaedit 1/2: also if you're worried about camps in nullsec, you aren't defending your space properly and will get your mining op smashed soon afaik.edit 2/2: also this should have no tank whatsoever, it's a goddamn hauler."
"i cannot see any signifact holes or drawbacks to this proposal, therefore i am not opposed to it, seems like anice little ore-hauling ship to me. jump capability might be a bit too much, but does not seem like something to be fought over to me. however, i cannot see this ship as being something extremely nessesary either, so i will not support it either. it would be nice to have, but, it costs development time."
"supported!while i do not necessarily agree with the eft warriorism going on here. the hyperion is very lacklustre for a tier 3 bs. any role it can fill is filled better by cheaper ships, and the active repair bonus is rarely used and pretty niche in its uses (see also brutix there).change the active rep bonus for +pg or +mwd accelleration or + armour amount, hell even a shield bonus would be better and give the ship more options.the other way of fixing this would be to make armour regen continuously while the repper is active rather than in a burst."
"i vote for 8-4-7 layout. (ab/web/scram + 1 med is needed for cap booster)also pg increasing is needed. it has almost the same pg as megathron. it is wrong."
"i also vote for 8/4/7 layout. i like my midslots."
"you can fit that. just with ions instead of neutron blasters. you have to note that lasers only get two tiers of short range guns while blasters get 3 tiers. you can argue that neutrons are larger than megapulse and thus should be harder to fit, or you can argue that they should be equally hard to fit. you also cannot compare guns on fittings alone, the megapulse has greater range but also sucks cap at an extraordinary rate. an active abaddon with mwd and dual rep will probably need both a large injector and med injector which makes it low on tackle and eccm, so while eft will give the dual rep setup to the abaddon, the hype will be more useful in actual gameplay.comical. not only is this unbalanced in the extreme but goes against gallente ship slot layout design philosophy. even giving it -1 med and +1 low now its just a lame active tanking mega. if any ship needs more slots to tanking, it is the maelstrom which has 6 slots for tanking and those slots compete with speed mods and tackle. no problems with this. would support this proposal if this is all you wanted, but 8-3-8 is nuts. also i'm not a fan of balancing ships and modules based on unrealistic fits by eft warriors.lastly, the one thing that stuck out in those two pictures in my mind was the insane range of the abaddon with shortest range ammo. iirc, the abaddon with short range ammo >> blasters with t2 long range ammo. this range factor is why blasters track worse than lasers despite more eft tracking and do less damage despite more eft dps. would give say +1-2k more pg and either a 20% tracking boost or optimal boost to blasters."
"[mostly] supported.while i do agree with some of the critics that giving the hyperion eight low slots would be dumb (some people would still ignore the active tank bonus and throw on plate, after plate, after plate...) i do heartily support an increase in powergrid/cpu for better flexibility in fitting. i also agree with many here that active tanking is borked and needs serious revisions.on another note, i'm a big fan of hyperion. however, i simply will not buy or fly one [anymore] as they are expensive frontline battleships that literally scream \"primary target\" to any hostile roaming gang with 4+ gank battlecruisers."
"on the other hand maelstrom has a lot of low slots for weapon upgrades without tank sacrificing :)"
"leave my mid slot alone. the hype needs:- more armor hitpoints. you could currently think of it like a mega with a low slot required to be filled by a t1 800 plate. 10500-11000 base armor and 6500 base shield should be sufficient.- enough grid to fit dual lar+mwd+cap booster+neutrons. no other tier 3 bs is so constrained by fittings that it cannot fit its bonused tank + largest tier guns. faction mods may be required, but them's the breaks. maybe increase to 21500 grid and 620 cpu.consider that this would fit:[hyperion, dream hype]large armor repairer iilarge armor repairer iicoreli c-type adaptive nano platingcoreli c-type adaptive nano platinginternal force field array imagnetic field stabilizer iiquad lif fueled i booster rocketsheavy capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800warp disruptor iifleeting propulsion inhibitor ifleeting propulsion inhibitor ineutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge llarge auxiliary nano pump ilarge auxiliary nano pump ilarge nanobot accelerator ithis requires a lot more faction modules than an \"equivalent\" maelstrom. it would also fit easily on said maelstrom.-liang"
"how to fix the hyperion:- remove a high slot- cut drone band wide into halve- reduce lock range to 42.5km(at max skills)- add a mid- replace the active tanking bonus with a damage or rof bonus- profit, you have a dedicated blaster bs what is very different to the mega"
"great. so you get a bs that cannot even be used in missions, thanks to it having no locking range whatsoever, which is currently the only use of hyperion, that has even worse dps due to having less guns, has yet another midslot (why does a blaster boat need yet another one?) and has even less dps thanks to having no drones. ow, also, if you put on damage mods you have a paper bs with a lot of tackle. get out. i fail to see in point in plating hyperion, in this case you will be better off in a mega because that ship gives you a bonus to tracking, if you plate it, you turn it into a mega without a tracking bonus. armageddon with 8 lows is unbalanced to the extreme as well, right?imao hyperion does not need many mid-slots, it's a heavy tank/dps bs, you have tacklers and support ships for the rest of the stuff. you have dominix with 5 midslots, and megathron with 4 mid slots, if you want a bs with alot of mislots.this is the sad truth, however it's a little outside the scope, we are attempting to fix the ship, guns are a separate discussion.no, it does not, x-large shield boosters server the perpose of 2 large reppers, and invuls are more powerful then eanm. it can achieve 30% stronger tank then a hyperion in pve, in pvp i am not even mentioning. maelstorm is the last ship that needs any slot layout changes."
"switching slots around isn't going to work. you can't add any either because all teir 3 bs have 19. hype having 20 would not be fair. two improvements are required. the first is moar pg. a second idea would be to increase base speed. a third would be to increase either its armour rep bonus or its damage bonus. the hype has no role and for ship that has a base cost around 150mill it should be excellent. the mega outperforms it at half the cost. whilst we're trying to fix the hype all the other armour rep bonus ships could use some love. but lets start with the hype and give it moar pg and better bonuses for its cost.edit:however after reviewing ships in other classes (bc/cruisers mainly) a +1/-1 slot for balance is not unheard of. perhaps the hype could get an extra low slot. but i would prefer a better bonus to armour rep/hybrid damage"
"wait, what?also the mega is a lot better at pve with the tracking bonus and the extra slot for the drone link. this mostly aims at pvp. this slot layout and bonuses would make the hype good at what a blaster ship does, providing a high turret focused dps and moving reasonable fast, both points where a hype fails in many setups this days.to fit a reasonable shield buffer on top of mwd, point and web, similar to a brutix."
"jesus.. no we are not shieldtanking gallente ships and we are not tanking off a gun. thank you. could you please expand on that?"
"8 low slots would make it too easy for \"extreme\" setups, such as pure buffer tanks that ignore the repair bonus. it would also make it a overpowered pve ship as the hyperion is pretty decent in that respect even with \"only\" 6 low slots. and some of us enjoy having a gallente bs with 5 midslots - it's not like we're blessed with those.i think the following is a much better suggestion:"
"i, like many people, use staion warehouses/containers/cans to organise my assets in stations and to seperate loot and minerals from blueprints etc.the way station cans are configured at the moment, it is impossible to directly refine or sell anything stored in a station can without dragging the items in question to the main hangar. i'd like to see this changed please, so that the contents of cans can be refined and then the results go back to that specific can.peace-out.edited for spelling, ld"
"the merely fact that you dont know how to get l5 mission in highsec means you are not just a carebear, you are an loser.eve is all about making isk by thinking, by trying and experementing with eve \"tools\".and about risking.good carebear not just will go to low/0.0/wh space, it will love to live there. as yes, good carebear will not let kill himself no matter there he is. and even if he'll be killed, he will take another prepared ship from hanger and will continue to carebearing.bad carebear will be killed in highsecs... eh, no, not necessary by npcs.higsec carebearing need to be nerfed, not boosted.no, core thing like concord presend should not be changed, but income from highsec agent-running should be greatly nerfed. both by reducing lps reward and loot/salvage drop in highsecs.while same lps and loot/salvage should be boosted in low.all lowsec plexed aslo need great boost.yours,god of carebearingno, this isnt alt."
"omgif you allow youself to pod in lowsecs, you are even more loser then i thought.do you even know that there is no bubbles alowed in low?normaly pod-killing in low occurs only on trial-noobs, twinks (with which owner just dont care if it'll be poded), or.... hm, compite losers like you."
"no, actualy even 0.0 l4s less profitable at max rate carebearing then l5 running. even if that l5 running in higsecs (like with hysera agent).150m/h was my normal income then i lived in hysera. and yes, thats include all the time i use for makinh isk from l5s, include manufacruring, reprocessing, placing anf changing buy/sell orders, logistig to jita and back, and time to place and recheck your contracts.in some low income possible can overcome 1b/h.although ofcorse thats mean control of nearby lowsecs by aliance or at least big corporation.even if you dont have such luxury, solo runner still can hope for about 200m+ income in lowsecs. provide he do know how to care for himself, and willing to do that."
"some l4s (not all though, at least high quality) indeed should be moved in lowsec.althogh moving l5s to 0.0 space is very bad idea.fisrt of all that will mean insane income by doing l5s in 0.0, which is simply make l4s agents in 0.0 worthless. and will greatly mess with pirate lp-shops market.second, 0.0 running usualy less risking then lowsec running, as agents space usualy controled by an alliance (even though they cant claim it). which mean not just more isk, its mean more isk with less risk, which is again complitely against eve stile.lastly, 0.0 space is already boosted alot (especialy in dominion), while lowsec space still need to be boosted. ccp tried to boost it with fw, but mosty fail. most of lowsec systems still complitely empty."
"even in laggy situations, i doubt the lag would spill out from the overview and into the target icons . either way, the proposal is about quickly unlocking unwanted targets, not necessarily about what keys should be pressed. it certainly beats right clicking the target and choosing unlock, especially for people (such as me) who have aixelsyd.supporting my own proposal."
"yes to this. this follows the same line of thoughts than my own proposal too. we could merge them. look for \"[proposal] upgrade of \"orbit\", \"keep at\" and \"approach\" functions.; youll see what i mean."
"since the overview now freezes when you have the control pressed this should not be a problem.this would be a nice addition."
"yes. as long as it only works when ctrl+clicking on the locked image icon, not on overview.this proposal ties in nicely with this one."
"good suggestion allen. :)-liang"
"i like this proposal.supported."
"very much in agreement."
"can't see a negative. simple, elegant."
"nice idea, /signed"
"supporting on the conditions above, i whant a different button for unlock to avoid misclicking"
"a simple but very usefull sugestion.....signed"
"add 2 slots for brutix. every race has bc with 18 slots. gallente does not.harbinger 8-4-6drake 8-6-4hurricane 8-4-6.... myrmidon 6-5-6.... brutix 7-4-5is it fair?"
"for the sake of completeness and a fair comparison.cyclone 8-5-4 = 17ferox 7-5-4 = 16 prophecy 7-3-6 = 16brutix = 7-4-5 = 16so to compare the tier 1 bcs, 16 seems to be the average. so nothing to change if you ask me, unless you want to nerf the cyclone for the sake of same slot numbers.on the tier 2 battlecruiser (cane,drake,harb,myrm) side you could argue that the myrm could use another low. but i think the ship does fine without it. 6 higs for turrets are enough as it gets a big chunk of dps from drones. 5 mids are also plenty. and the tank you get out of a myrm is just insane."
"ok :) brutix does not need extra slots because it is 1st tier bc. myrm does not need extra slot because it is powerfull enough.what about high tier cruisers comparison?rupture 6-3-5 (14)moa 6-4-4 (14)maller 6-3-6 (15)thorax 5-3-5 (13)is there any explanation?"
"50m^3 drone bay? the real question is why the maller can have 15 slots and suck so bad.-liang"
"maller works nice for baiting^^"
"actually i'd turn that around, and say all the tier 1s need 'work' - the brutix isn't alone in 'suffering' . split weapons on rupture/moa, and big dronebay on the 'rax.maller's 6th highslot has no hardpoint, making it not really 'worth' a slot, and it has no dronebay."
"imao tier 1 bc's need ot have just as many slots as their tier two counterparts."
"this must be added asap ingame"
"sounds good. supported. playing missile based ships just looks silly."
"everyone knows that smartbombs used in hisec are risky. there are several ridiculous risks though. for instance, if you blast an asteroid with a smartbomb it's considered a criminal act. pfftin light of the new pirate ships relaeased with dominion, many of which have useless hi slots, ie you can't put launcher or turret in them, i propose a point defense system, smartbombs.this opens up the possibility of new smartbomb skills to increase damage, new smartbomb skills to reduce powergrid, cpu and/or capacitor usage.smartbombs are an untapped and largely ignored resource, lets do something with them."
"the obligatory support my own post, post."
"smart bombs got their role in lowsec and 0.0if you really dont know what to put into your utility high slots for pvp you kind of fail (*waves with an heavy neut*)not supported."
"i'm aware of nos and neut, but have found them to be of limited use. after reading some of your most recent replies to other posts, i must say i'm disappointed to find the 1st reply here to be from a very dedicated flamer.while your security status may be of no concern to you, there are those of us who have worked hard to keep a good one and there is more to this post than you seem to grasp. i'm not asking for big change in the way smartbombs operate, rather i'd like to expand their usefulness. let me use them without fear of hitting a damn asteroid with it, or an acceleration gate. let me increase the effectiveness as a point defense system by adding skills to improve its performance. every other weapon in the game has these skills. why not smartbombs?"
"i am not flaming you. i just question your proposal. neuts are very valuable in pvp."
"first off.. he's right.secondly your security status doesn't mean crap here... get over it.thirdly... read the whole damn topic before you judge his posts... just because he spends alot of time giving one liners and saying no doesn't mean he's saying no for the hell of it... he's just not taking the time to explain his reasoning... and sorry to say... he is right as i've said before... you should do a bit more research./me waves remote repsyou obviously do not know how to fit your ships as well as you think you do.time to go back to the drawing board kid.ps: i will say that the sb'ing an rock is a laughable idiocy of this game... should be turned off.... the rock is not a citizen of this game... its a bloody rock."
"smartbombs are plenty usefull. im guessing the op has never been baited into attacking an smartbombing bs with 8 wcs in the lows :p ."
"this is f*king idioting. needs to be fixed asap. if i lost a ship due to this.. i, well, would be very displeased. smartbombs could use some losving indeed, like have a faloff range added to the optimal they currently have, but by a large, they aren't bad. or overload them for more range/damage.however, this proposal really has no content so i do not have much to support, i am sorry,.\"let's do something with them\" is a bit too vague."
"ambient lighti don't know how so much light at every angle was able to reflect off an object in the middle of effin' nowhere, but it does not look right at all. please, for the love of all that is immersion, let me say that ships in space should not be exposed to the same amount of illumination as a pleasure hub docking platform.solution - decrease ambient light. a 50% reduction or more would be appropriate.local light sourcesstargate activations, cynosural distortions, and even ship explosions (especially ddds) barely give off any directional lighting to the area. i don't know if this is because it doesn't add much in proportion to the already high ambient lighting, or if ccp never programmed for it, but the lack of immersion makes me cry. considering ht&l made this possible it became popular back in dx 8.1, it'd be a damn shame if it was never implemented in trinity.solution - make light sources emit light, perhaps??starsno, i'm not referring the starmap, but the stars themselves. in an earth-like atmosphere(*), i find it funny how at a distance of ~25 au, our sun would look like a brilliant star that acts as a focal point, and would be somewhat difficult to locate at 50 au. however, your typical star in the eve galaxy sticks out like a sore thumb at nearly every distance. this is by far my biggest gripe. i know that solaris isn't exactly the biggest or most massive star in our galaxy, but it seems the stars in eve are large and massive enough to put betelgeuse to shame.solution - reduce the size of these obscenely gigantic stars by at least 80% so we don't all get swallowed up by a solar flare capable of destroying a small planet (oops, too late).fake edit: i know i said \"in an earth-like atmosphere\" could invalidate what i said, but i'm guessing the camera drone emulates atmosphere. lens flares, glare, and glow are all products of atmospheric scattering and refraction... and considering how powerful these effects are, the emulated atmosphere must be pretty god damned dense.oh, and fix your ****ty forum software, please ccp?"
"funny that in comparison these stars don't look so massive when you warp to 0.in fact, planets look way bigger."
"\"there has to be enough light to see the darkness by.\" terry pratchett, moving picturesmy monitor is old and dark. not everyone has the budget to both buy a new monitor and subscribe to the games they like.i'm already squinting into the gloom and leaving my tactical overlay up all the time to brighten the screen a little. chop the light the way you're suggesting and anyone looking at anything short of the latest and best in hd technology is going to be flying completely blind.when realism interferes with the ability to actually play the game the realism has to go."
"this, really. it's a game well before it's a sim."
"ambient light should stay becasue otherwise we will not be able to see anything. local light sources? dynamic lights have appeared in gaming like 8 years ago, time for eve to evolve. i whant to see side of my hull lit up when i see all those lasers hit my ship or those blaster iring high-evengy plasma need to light up the entire fleet. so should the stargates. so yes for that. stars? meh, yes an no, sure, why not make them fade at distance, does not matter that much though."
"deleted"
"i remember reading a while back that the devs never wanted to bring rogue drone faction ships into the game. their reason being the role-play concept that a pod can't interface with the ship. i was thinking to counter this minor detail, add hard wirings for drones in general (which have been asked for many a time before) that must be implanted to get into the drone ships. this could bring the ships into a different realm, with a whole different idea of pre-reqs besides just skills.another concept i was working with in regard to skills and being unique, was perhaps require any 2 racial skills, each with different bonuses for damage and tank, and the player can choose with 2 bonuses to use (providing they have the proper skills trained to begin with.) for ex: gallente frigate can give either the offensive bonus of drone bay size or a defensive roll like armor resistance or speed. this moves into a t3 direction (but the same pirate-faction pre-reqs), but with hulls already being used (like the badass dominix with claws). so, just prior to getting into the ship, a menu would pop up similar to that of the strategic cruisers with a list of your skills, as opposed to ship components in your hangar, and the player picks two bonuses of choice, whether it be double damage (like dominix w/drones and guns) or maybe dual tank w/no dps (a concept not covered via any existing ships' bonuses.. most likely because it's boring).another idea moving into uniqueness was perhaps make them individually more powerful in numbers. for ex: having one rogue drone ship present on grid would be less effective than even its t1 counterpart; but as more rogue drone ships come on grid, the bonus (whether it be something already covered by leadership/command links like speed/tank/lock range or something new like amount of drone bandwidth/drones in space increased) would increase either linearly or exponentially , depending on balance and whatever the bonus could be worked out to be.i envision a heavily drone-oriented damage system (naturally), maybe neuts or another bonus, but i wouldn't want it to encroach too much on neut domi or curse roles. perhaps address this by gimping its hi slot layout, with other slots altered depending on racial skill choices. and giving it a drone-per-level for gallente offensive choice, but if the player wanted to do a neut idea, have the amarr offensive choice be for that. specifics would certainly have to be worked out for balance and to keep claimed roles from becoming obsolete."
"i like this"
"there's a lot of cool ideas here, but it's not nearly coherent enough to be a proposal we take to ccp. take this thread to features and ideas, kick it around some, and come back when it's more clearly understood."
"seems perfectly reasonable."
"um..... target painter."
"even with working defenders this proposal wouldnt be needed. i would rather see the proposal \"apply guided missile precision skill to all missiles\" go through. but dav's try to bring up defenders as a valid counter was just too funny."
"i can support missiles being affected by tracking computers, so long as the following conditions are met:- tracking disruptors also affect missile tracking and range.- smartbombs no longer destroy missiles.- flight delay is reduced to become something more reasonable.- defender missiles are removed from the game.- the raven gets a seventh missile bank.- rockets and light missiles get a 50% boost in damage output.- guided missile precision also affects short range missiles- assault missile launchers get a hefty tracking penalty.- the kestrel gets 3 missile banks and 1 turret point.- missile range support skills no longer give a net bonus of 125%.- missile tracking support skills no longer give a net bonus of 100%.- torpedoes are no longer absurdly overpowered.- the missile tracking formula is replaced with one that wasn't created by ccp nozh.in other words, missiles would have to be worth tweaking, not in dire need of total overhaul. a tracking computer would be a grain of sand in comparison to what needs to be done. however, far too many people like the sorry condition missiles are in to allow ccp to do anything about it."
"then give armor tanks an x-large rep, shield is different than armor, missiles are different than guns, not signed"
"good proposal, well thought!no support though. way too complex, probably hard to implement (ok, that'd be ccps job) and last but not least i cannot support slavery of any kind!"
"supported"
"agreed, kinda. make them only buildable in hi-sec? afaik nothing has this restriction yet, so maybe this would be a good start.based on that i give this proposal a big thumbs up."
"not supported, becuase the op is a fail troll and has had the process, benefits and problems explained to him multiple times, in good language and bad, and because (imho) the op is probably not the brightest light in the chandelier.i would sincerely hope that everyone blows him the hell up (in game) as often as possible for being a complete dork and an entitlement spoiled xp grinder of the worst wow caliber."
"and as was pointed out in the op, there was no mention of ccp's response (if any), or indeed any indication that the issue was raised at all in the minutes of the relevant csm-ccp meeting. so, either the item was overlooked, or the minutes are incomplete, or the issue was subsumed into some broader discussion and is not mentioned explicitly. either way, the outcome remains unclear and i'd like clarification.(this may have come off as being more confrontational than i intended)"
"i've been trying to improve communication from the csm and after a bit of discussion with ccp i hope the minutes from this ccp csm summit will be released much quicker than previously.as to your specific question, we'll see what update ccp give before any next step is taken."
"couldn't agree more"
"full support, ugly is ugly. everyone knows it."
"things i would change re: black ops ...covert ops cloak - as has been stated ad nauseum, why does the leader of a covert ops gang not have the same basic ability as the rest of the gang? if you have to balance it somehow.. remove 75m3 of drone bay from each black ops to 'make room' for cpu banks for covert ops cloak. \"a hiding ship launches no drones\" should be on a plaque above every black ops command chair.jump range - again, it has been stated many times before. it needs to be able to do its job.fuel use - lowering the amount needed per ship, or raising the amount carried in fuel bay would be nice. but, if the first two suggestions are implemented i feel that either there will be more black ops around to help, or folks won't mind bringing along a blockade runner to carry supplies.----as far as resists, ehp and dps... i have no problem keeping them either close to or exactly where they are(for now). this ship type is designed for a purpose. i do not believe that purpose is going 1v1 or toe-to-toe with anything... ever. fitting the covert ops cloak would greatly reduce the ship's vulnerability and any need to take or give damage.you want to make it more survivable? maybe give it a +2 warp strength. he who cloaks and warps away... lives to bridge his whole gang out.i would like to see it become the support vessel it can be, without becoming a ship that pilots would to take into a real battle. you wouldn't throw your reppers out in front would you? i think the same concept applies here. make the ship too valuable and fragile to risk in open combat, but not in a monetary sense. it should be your ride home, take care of it.covert cloak, range and fuel first, then let the dust settle to see if needs more love in the resists, ehp and dps department.----------"
"somehow i think black ops should be taken in the sb direction.make them paper thin dps machines that can sneak in, call in more paper thin friends, make a blow, then run away... unless caught, which causes them to die horribly.but in general, just the jump range, and maybe bit more tought out bonuses should do it for now."
"so does the csm present this to the eve devs this week?how long does it normally take to get a response back?i am asking simply to try and understand the process. thanks...."
"here's an idea: before you accuse people of afk anything, why don't you get your facts straight.when i mine, it's usually with three accounts on three screens - two mining, one hauling. my two miners fill up my hauler's cargo hold every cycle, which means that between docking, undocking, and travel time i have about 30 seconds of 'spare' time when i don't have to pay attention to the screen. so bite my ass.second, it is not the fact that i can't afford to lose the hulk that bothers me. i have two of them, plus a mack, and a half a dozen covetors scattered around. it is the disproportionate amount of effort involved in recovering that irritates me. gankers cry about the loss of sec status as if it were something they actually cared about (protip - if they cared, they wouldn't be ganking) and use that to justify their essentially free ships. my ass - as i stated before, some helpful fellow demonstrated how to recover the sec status loss from ganking a hulk in about an hour. that's not a penalty - that's an inconvenience.why don't you get over yourself?"
"sorry, i had to fix that part of your post as it was a train wreck trying to understand what you were saying. thanks for allowing me to have an opinion. i'm overwhelmed that i'm allowed to actually say something with your permission! here is what i have to say.just to answer your question, that you can't see i have answered a hundred times or been said as much through out this whole thread.i'm not complaining about stupidity or laziness. i'm giving my opinion about the fact you get 30+ people sitting in saftey around a gate in hi-sec waiting for ship worth hitting to come through the gate. you don't see that anywhere else because there is no such thing as saftey anywhere else. yes, you have gate camps and such but they don't just sit there in saftey.then those people sitting around the gate find a target, usually a freighter, and they vaporize a freighter, of all things, in seconds. concord comes along and then kills them all while their buddies in haulers, again in saftey, goes and scoops the loot. all the while the freighters friends can't shoot the looters. if it had been anywhere else the gankers would have died rather quickly and the little looter guys would have been killed too.wait maybe they should make damage controls built in on freighters and give 60% resist across the board. they have this in the real world, i know i have been on a freighter before!i don't even know why i am trying, all you'll do is atack me again and get off the subject.all you have done is attack me and make conjecture. how about you actually post something constructive instead of attacking me for my views. you're telling me i have no voice in the eve community based on where i currently live. you say i must live in hi-sec and have been ganked and that's why i'm saying this stuff.you can believe what you want to believe. does it matter where i live or what has happened to me in the past? are we going to base what people can or can't vote on or have a say in based on this?we going to start letting people only have a voice on certain things based on where they live in the world or the color of their skin? maybe we can base it on their sex and religion too. then after you're done splitting it up that way then we can look at in game stats for those people and again cut the ones who should have no say. talk about bringing realism into a game, we have enough of that kind of attitude in the real world why would you want to bring it into eve too?every post in this thread from you is an attack on someone, i haven't check the forum itself so i have no idea if this is your mo or not."
"no, you're wrong.t1 insurance equals base price of all minerals used in production, currently mineral prices on market are below that base, meaning insurance pays more then market price of the ship. increase market price of minerals and insurance will pay less -> nerf mining to deal with suicide gank."
"agreed. after they nerf insurance payout for suicide ganking.then the risk is a bit leveled and then you can come back and cry if high sec dwellers still whine about suicide ganking 200m ships.they risk their 200m ships, you risk your 50m outfit and get almost all back - they don't.proposal supported.and no, i don't live in empire. high sec bores me to tears."
"couldn't have said it better myself."
"here's an idea: why don't u stop avoiding the fact that merely switching from a hulk to a covetor would be nothing more than an inconvenience as well? simple as that--no more 200 mil loss since covetors r t1... is it really that hard for u to do? really? maybe it is. why? u're just avoiding this because u don't want to adapt, just like the rest of them. all u did was restate that the loss of a hulk doesn't bother u but just the recovery stage after it, which is essentially the same exact thing.so cry me a river 'cause u ain't special either. why should the game cater to your unwillingness to adapt?ahh but if the low sec/0.0 camps aren't sitting there in safety compared to the ones in high sec, that would mean it's harder to be ganked in high sec than it is in low sec/0.0. but wait...really, r u just talking out your ass now?it still takes a lot of ppl do something like that, just like any blob not in high sec. and no, the low sec/0.0 gankers won't die quickly because it's still a blob, no matter where it is. most likely, u'll be the one dying if u can't outblob them anyway. second, did u ever think that there r other ppl besides the suicide gankers that r waiting for someone else to gank for them so they can scoop it? and it's not like the gankers will suicide the 3rd party waiting to steal it from them.again with the realism, only u just want it to accomodate your laziness and stupidity because u never tried anything at all to protect yourself. if u actually have, plz do tell."
"as long as there is no agenda set up for the summit, we won't know it in advance. worst case, we'll have to wait for the minutes to be published to know for sure.however, this is off topic and i would recommend to place questions like this either in the speakers corner or directly with your preferred csm rep."
"(skipped this to trim down first post) in the process of your corrections, u somehow managed to miss almost the entire remaining post, which is repeating a certain question for a reason, a question u still have yet to answer.by debating this, i'm attacking u with words? htfu or just stop posting. one would think in a game like this, words wouldn't even amount to a grain of salt but i guess that's not always the case. u can disprove all the accusations u want 'cause u still haven't disproved my accusation that u never took any precautions to protect your cargo.totally irrelevant. i never once said u couldn't have an opinion, did i? no i didn't. u just have to actually support it. and that doesn't include not doing anything whatsoever to protect your assets and crying on the forums for ccp to protect u. all u're doing is taking something u completely made up and blow it out of proportion.refer to the top of this post. and another reason why it feels like an \"attack\" to u... it's because i've had to say something over and over again 'cause u either just won't listen or u just want to avoid answering a valid argument. did... u... take... precautions... to... protect... your... cargo? if not, that's where the laziness, stupidity, and inability to adapt comes in... do u get it now? or r u just gonna continue trolling while going back to accusing me of being one? i'm gonna repeat it again just in case: did u take precautions to protect your cargo?fixed."
"and yet, that's exactly what you're saying - that this change shouldn't be approved because gankers don't want to have to adapt to a new modus operandi in how the choose their targets.so let me toss your own question back at you:"
"correction: this change shouldn't be approved because u not wanting to adapt is the sole reason for the change. that's where the question \"why should the game cater to your unwillingness to adapt?\" comes in. because even if this happens, ppl will just use more ppl and cheaper ships to get the same result. so in the end, nothing that u intended to change will change."
"show me where on a ship in the world they have a damage control ii that they turn on to increase their shield, armor and hull resists. you make my point, you're a troll. i'm done with you."
"sounds win if balanced right."
"i don't think fille was trying to disparage your efforts but \"no matter how you look at it\" would probably have been better wording since twisting implies falsifying information.as for the setups listed i would not run any of them except in specific conditions. i have explained to mission runners many times that cap stable is overrated. your tank simply needs to hold out long enough to kill everything else and since most runners use marauders to salvage missions then you generally just let everything get within tractor range. i don't see beams used that often either since you can still get really good ranges with pulses for taking out those turrets placed at ridiculous ranges. so the lack of ammo clogging up the hold furthers the ability of lasers to lead the pack imho. that's not even taking into consideration that the kronos is the only marauder that got resistance upgrades that were not in line with its tanking type.vargur 35% increase to shield resistances, 18.125% increase to armor.kronos 25% increase to shield resistances, 24.375% increase to armor.paladin 20% increase to shield resistances, 29.375% increase to armor.golem 27.5% increase to shield resistances, 23.125% increase to armor.so yeah i agree that a railgun boost as listed by the op will have virtually no change at all other than to make existing railboats viable alternatives to the fotm."
"actually, that statement wasn't aimed at tagami, but never mind.the reason i posted those setups was to show some fits that work, and that all looked more or less the same. that way no one can argue that one was fitted better/different than the other. i also included both beams and pulses in order to show how ill the rails perform in comparison to both."
"it's ok, english is a foreign language to me as well, sometimes translating does not work. i was perplexed because you gave support to the idea, but used the verb twist, which has negative connotations.anyway, i've been looking at frigate sized ships and i am not sure how to approach the comparison amongst them, they don't scale very well and in a frig fight 1km is life or death. do you have any ideas what fittings we should use to compare frigate sized ships? i want to continue this proposal and refine it with input from the rest of the players."
"supported"
"i always travel around with at least 2-3 exotic dancers in my ship's hold, along with a 6 pack of quafe ultra, spiced wine, live stock & a janitor (somebody needs to clean up). so to make sure i always have company in my pvp ships i have quite a few dancers in my hangers, but when it comes time to move, these pesky girls seem to have an issue with getting inside the box.my proposal is, we make the dancers & all the other life forms to be able to be shipped in containers. of course like all things in new eden, changes should have repercussions. so i suggest maybe an hour or 2 time limit that would cause life forms left in there to be come lifeless corpse, or in the dancers case, maybe a dead hooker corpse. because flying around with dead hookers would make for some serious lolz.ax"
"firstsupported"
"support dead single mothers!!+1 for this idea-proc"
"win."
"supporting dead hookers"
"i have to support myself. how else would gain self confidence?ax"
"sticking hookers in a box to hide them always works"
"this sounds like a great idea. perhaps they could also allow us to use the dead hookers as ammunition, even if the did no damage, they could bring up a notice to the target that they've been hit by a hooker corpse."
"i think somthing about planek and the space time continuum compresses things across multiple dimensions, which would be my guess why bad things happen to live objects and why putting a container in a container would create a black hole.so not supported, live things should only come out of the box a bloody mess."
"slavery, messing up with physics, stuff - all this just out of fun and boredom?no, not supported at all."
"simple idea really, make it possible to sort the local channel by standings / security status.same as you can set the overview order, make it so that local can be sorted to show that you have 5 war targets in the system of 700 people without having to scroll throught the local list constantly."
"1. local is a chat tool not an intel tool. be glad there are marker for standing/wartarget at all.2. please use the search. it was suggested and beaten down a lot of time already. (in worst case eve-search)"
"yeah similar. the oauth flow is even simplier then that tho.* 3rd party site/software.* user clicks a link/button to request access to api info.* user is shown a list of scopes being requested by the 3rd party site/software (skills/wallet/corp/pos)* user clicks approve/decline.* user is autheniticated sercurely.the user can then manage the linked sites permissions from their account section of the eve website.all keys are hidden in the background without the user needing to worry about the technical aspects.this then allows a whole world of social network programming which will be locked away from eve, unless ccp adopt some open standards in relation to the api and the new social network.edit: oh and yeah you're right, the api already uses a token system so going to a standard one wouldn't be too major a change.added bonus is that the data being passed is encrypted using the shared secret key."
"i've mixed terminology a little.what i'm describing is oauth + openid.the concept is \"if you can prove you own this url then we'll let you into our website without a password\".in eve's case the user would be proving they own a particular character without exposing any private info.this openid process then includes oauth tokens which can be used to \"impersonate\" the user on the api.making requests with the same credentials the user would have by use of the token. once approved by the user.this has the extra added benefit of 3rd party sites not having 101 different logins and passwords, removing the risk of people being phished when using poorly selected username/password."
"in case you are not aware, mining is still pretty much the same as it was when eve was released.there's t2 crystals, the rorqual compression, but basically, mining still comes down to enabling your lasers, and then go afk 3 minutes, and then moving the ore to a can.so, could the csm please ask ccp:what exactly are you doing with mining right now?we've heard talk of comet-mining, hows going with that?do you have anything that could make mining less of a jawbreaker in boring contests than it is currently?what are your future plans for mining, and what do you think of the way mining has developed as a career?mining is a career for a considerable amount of people in eve, and although many are probably happy with their steady stream of afk-income, i'm sure that there's people who would like to see mining evolved.note: when i say \"ask\", i don't mean \"ask in a nicely manner with a cookie and cross fingers\", i mean \"slap them in the face, then continue to electrify them until they give a proper answer\".how far they are in the \"mining profession\" is somewhat irrelevant, but let us know, dammit! ccp have a very, very bad habit of saying \"hi, we're doing something really awesome, but we can't really tell you about it until it's release, which will be in at least 3 years, seeya!\"..please?"
"mmmm... a world full of black bmws... me wants!!!"
"#1: first fail. it's not a stationary tank, l2transversal#2: second fail and a big fat wtf? i can hit and 1 shot frigates, 2 shot cruisers at 120km with spike + 425's without a tc.#3: third fail, q freaking q, cry some more.#4: because all ships should do everything every other ship can do, am i right or am i right?#5: will not dignify this as i'm now going to point to #4.#5a: . . . . . . . i'm starting to think you don't even play this game. 8% doesn't make a difference? mmkay if you say so. as for replacing mods for mods, refer to 4# again please. it's called versatility not stereotyping. #6: ver. sa. til. ity. not stereotyping. if you want something as good as laz0rs, go amarr.#7: sigh... moan moan complain complain is all i hear. let me point out some things here. 1: hyperion  abaddon2: referring to 1: gallente  amarr.3: hyperion is far from inferior, notice the spelling, to the abaddon.4: ... where the hell are you getting this crap about the hyperion not being able to fit 8 guns, mwd and 2 reppers in one fit? hell, it can fit those and 2 injectors to boot! my friend, it fulfills it's job just fine.last but not least.... the 8-3-8 deal. let me say these few things again.............1: because every ship should be able to do everything every other ship can do, right?2: gallente  amarr3: hyperion  abaddonin conclusion to my post, all i have to say is this. quit your complaining about ccp's designs and roll god damn amarr and live and let live.please put some effort into your fits with all v in eft before you post like this ever again. murdering my troll senses.side note:ccp  blizzardquit. crying."
"feel free to show me a maelstrom that can fit a mwd, pt, web, and cap injector and a tank similar to the hyperion. you don't know that invulns take cap and eanms don't and that in pvp you generally want mwd+pt+web? stop efting and starting playing on tq dude. glad to see other people backing me up that 8 low slot hyperion is crazy. blasters could use a slight buff, but the hype is fine: it fills a niche and if you don't like it, then fly the insanely powerful domi and mega."
"if you had proposed switching rep bonus to resist bonus, i would have supported this thread."
"so we get what, a blaster fitted abbadon? vaal erit-yes, shield tanking ships do have trouble fitting points, webs, etc. however they get the benefit of fitting many more damage mofs and tracking computers (in case they need any) withought hurting their tank. magistrate aribeth- i just won't comment on your post. i don't think there is any need. and just for your information, thrasher can 1-shoot npc frigates as well."
"i have amarr bs5, and i've had gallente bs5 for a long time. i can't imagine any realistic scenario when i'd take a hype over an abaddon - or hell a geddon. the only time i've stepped into my hype recently was to wtfpwn a maelstrom. why did i fly the hype? because it was in the next system and i started the fight in a crusader.if there'd been an abaddon 2 jumps away, i'd have strongly considered flying the extra distance to pick it up instead. as a general rule the hype is an inferior pile of **** next to an abaddon.-liang"
"blasters need fixing and after that still the hyperion would suckin a few days i'll have shield skills at 5 and then i'll get into my old hyperion.. that's just wrong!hyperion needs a large pg boost badly... that's a minimum8-3-8 slots would be fine since the hyperion is imensly underpowerd, so a realy massive boost is neededgalente/blasters are currently only good in eft-wars and hyperion isnt eaven good at that"
"i'd like to see anyone maintain a dual rep tank on a hype with only one cap booster.hype needs a slight boost to powergrid and an extra bonus to it's rep amount, nothing more, nothing less.turning it into a geddon isn't the way to go and really goes against the grain."
"yes yes yes. make that 2nd bonus worth the massive price tag. increase pg and increase rep ammount bonus to 9%/lvl. 9% would only push max bonus out to 45%, a mere 7.5% more than current. enough pg to fit a full rack of ions with 2 x lar, mwd, lge cap booster and med cap booster to keep those reppers running. hyperion would then be a fair ship for its price. though i'd love 10%/lvl but that'd cause too many tears."
"get out. if you're gonna give the maelstrom more mids, you sure as hell better give the rokh more mids too. we have to compete with speed mods & tackle on a platform thats slow as hell and uses cap hungry guns."
"excellent idea.fully supported."
"yep"
"this seems useful."
"this fix would help both in pvp and in pve/missions. often blood raiders use nos, and there's no way to detect it if you have effects turned off other than by watching your cap drain away. please add this feature to the list."
"2 jumps every 48 hours!log in, you are in your +4 carebear learning clone > clone jump into pvp clone > do pvp op > come back home/die > jump back to +4 clone...perfect!"
"something on this front would be nice, yes. it's gotten better, but cans are still too much of an annoyance."
"and please let me put gscs in station warehouses"
"yes please."
"absolutely. great idea."
"this had been implemented already and removed for obvious reasons (didn't work properly and caused both annoyance and confusion when used). however, it might bee interesting to know of ccps ideas about corp hangar usage. in one of the last minutes, i read something about making station cans transportable - maybe they have other, related topics already on their list?"
"supported.if possible i'd even want to take it one step further and be able to run jobs (r&d or manufacturing) from inside a station container.echo"
"support, definetly. even perhaps allow renameable tabs for character hangars as well."
"epic."
"i have two words for level 5 mission running: natural selection. i say ccp ought to allow a few level 5 agents in key systems to bait those who think bigger is better. the wise ones will realize that level 4 missions are many times more profitable, while the stupid ones will continue to be totally oblivious to having a negative isk flow. after all, most (if not all) level 5 missions are garbage. anybody who runs them, hisec or not, needs to have his head examined.i fully support this great opportunity to allow darwinism into the mission running sector."
"you are very wrong here.currently i am doing l5 outside of my alliance control zone, and i am in greater profit that any 0.0 citizens can hope for, even though it is pretty risky now to do missions at... where i am.l4s in highsecs cant give even half of my current income. yes, thats include realy profitable highsec systems like aphend.oh realy? so you said that 86k lp which can be done in 15 minutes of blitzing l5, and then doing about 170m isk out of those 86k lp is garbage?"
"i like this."
"supported! it would be especially nice if this could cancel a lock-in-progress as well."
"supported"
"supported"
"yes, but it needs an enable/disable option in esc menu."
"sure, as long as we can give the ferox 50mbit/50m^3 and a 7th turret slot."
"since the conclusion from above is that it's not the brutix that's lacking slots but actualy it's the myrmidon...ant that's ok according to everyone (including me) because the myrm is good and balancedbut brutix isn't ok and balanced it's lacking, and sub-parmake the brutix the exception among tier 1 and give it some extra slots... just like the myrm is the exception to tier 2 with less slots"
"myrmidon is a drone ship - traditionally, a drone bonus(and the corresponding bandwidth/bay) are worth a slot. and the brutix is the best tier 1 bc - yeah, it's short a slot on the cyclone, but i'll take seven guns with a bonus over split-weapon nonsense any day."
"imho neither of the tier one bcs is lacking. well flown they are very efficient ships. each of them can do around 500dps (some even more e.g. a gank brutix can get up to 900dps) and bring a decent tank/buffer to the field.and seriously saying that the brutix needs a buff is crying on a very high level."
"it's hard to fit britux properly, espeshially for a low-sp player. however it can be flown very well. now, there is an issue with it being shield tanked, but that's different, that is not solved by adding slots."
"the idea is simple. if ccp gets a petition or on their own suspects a bot they can convo the person.any player actively playing must answer when pm'ed by a dev. actively playing- mining itself is not actively playing. but once you warp to a station, or jet can your ore, or a host of other things that require interaction- then you are actively playing.this could work for trade bots too. if someone buys a contract and immediately relists it- is it a bot or a person? theyre now one convo away from knowing.yes this would require employees- maybe even some new hires. im sure they already have ppl looking for such things. this is just one more tool they can use."
"supporting my own topic"
".. and this is where it will never happen.supported, anyways."
"it's not that simple though i wish it were.first of all because anything can be programmed into a bot and second because they have to err on the side of caution. if i am mining and get up to get a beer, spill the beer and have to clean up the kitchen floor you would have me banned.if i am on voice with my fleet or corp and have chat minimized you would have me banned.if i am managing by buy/sell orders and have the chat window covered up you would have me banned.not so simple is it?"
"yes please :)"
"+1there are ships with launchers and missiles just burst out from underneath them. i would definitely like to see more missile animations, and more hitboxes than just the center of the ship like they do with turrets.scrambling? what about an effect that l"
"i do support.especially the turning off of effects. would be nice to have per-effect option for self and others.ab/mwd effects/animations and engine trails for velocity vector indication and overall coolness factor."
"lot's of awesome in this thread. so no way it happens.beam weapons have such an amazingly pronounced effect and sound compared to the other weapons so can we get a more pronounced effects for hybrids and projectiles?firing a large hybrid sounds like blowing a spit wad through the tube of a ballpoint pen. med rails sound great for example. projectiles sound like you shot the spit wad at a piece of tin foil suspended from the ceiling and recorded it hitting. the graphic effects of both also need to be increased. slightly more pronounced streak for both and the firing effect increased in size and duration by about 25%(little rings from hybrids and fireball for projectiles)."
"face it ccp. there are a lot of ships out there that just look butt ugly. some hardly make sense even. i'm not saying you should make boring symmetrical ships (because we all know how you absolutely despise being symmetrical) but could you listen to your user base and give our ships a face lift?a few ships i (and a lot of people) have a big problem with.-imiscus-griffon-dominix-thanatos-moa-navitasdo i ever see these ships in any of your advertisements? no. and the reason is obvious. if people's first impression of eve were any of these ships, they'd cringe and you'd loose potential customers. you know this. that is why ships like hyperion, megathron, and myrmidon appear in your ads, because they're appealing to the eye.sorry if it appears i am only talking about gallente ships for the most part, but they are the only ones i really fly and see a lot of."
"don't touch my mutated potato! (domi that is) obviously not supported. altough the part about adverts is true."
"thanny is the (2nd) best looking carrier and why does no one but me love moa :("
"supported for the moa only."
"empty high slots hmmmm neuts ring a bell?"
"its not just smart bombs that get this problem with asteroids if your shooting a roid with anything but a mining laser expect trouble especially if your in high sec and if you dont believe me get in your mining ship and shoot a roid with drones ;) see what concord does to your mining ship and your drones.which can very easily happen if you misclick to engage a target thats already dead and you switch to next target in a miners case 9/10 its a roid :p"
"i'm quite shure that i warp scrambled an asteroid by accident once... and survived..so how is that not sanctioned by concord and smartbombing a rock is?agree with the op and the above posts that smartbombing rocks should be fixeddont agree with the op that smartbombs are useless, or that high slots are useless, and dont agree that sbs need to be buffed with new skills.. sbs are very usefull in a lot of situations and work very well, hi slots are eaven more usefull than smartbombs"
"said rock must be in a mission zone.go ahead and try it there. :)"
"so it's made on purpose? nice."
"so what this thread is really suggesting is that concord is a broken, warped mechanic and need to be removed from the game asap."
"agreed smartbombs could use some love. new types and uses maybe (decloaking pulse???)but it is possible to use them to effect in high-sec as long as you pay attention to where you are and where people are. i've used them in missions for fun. smartie vexor in lvl 1's and 2's is hilarious.by the way nothing happens when you do shoot a rock, even with the warning. don't trust me get yourself a noob ship and try it out. i assure you nothing will happen. funny to have an amarr ship and act like your mining with the corp only to really have lazers. good for bait also but only on really dumb people"
"well i know the issue of insurance has been mentioned a few times, however the amount of caps, titans etc now in fleet fights is crazy to be honest. its just bring a cap and 20+ titans and slug it out - cos we can - without really any consequence. its ok they are insured attitude is just a bit mental. fleet fights should be thought out processes, not bring everything you can and slug it out. bringing things like we seen 32 titans is just a joke tbh sorry it is..removing insurance removes this 'we have a billion caps to bring ' theres no real consequence to fleet battles attitude, especially when you can just 'go get another' if you die.."
"bringing just lots of caps and hoping to win is a very bad tactic, there are examples of big capital fleets being slaughtered by small ones. i'm not going to look them up for you but they are out there.what you do when you remove the insurance of caps is hurt the little man because most carriers and dreads are privately owned. not all alliances can provide capitals for all their capital pilots or can they just \"get another one\".also i would like you to point me to one titan or mothership which is insured, because this is mainly what your post is about."
"the op reeks of noob./me epic fail troll post 3/10not supporting."
"for as close as the stars in the new eden cluster are, and with as much reflective material there is scattered around (aka dust), i'd say the ambient light is probably about right."
"ambient light can have a slider.the rest i definitely support, especially dynamic lighting. we had it in pre-trinity eve, what happened to it?"
"bump"
"it sure would be nice if ccp could maintain a list of common game mechanics. i can't tell you the number of bugs i have found accidentally, which i thought were game mechanics. ccp expects the players to know most of the mechanics, but no one in the game on either side of the interface knows them all. my proposal is for the mechanics to be documented, so players (and ccp) have a reference on intended game mechanics. if game mechanics are documented, players can make reference to specified mechanics.a long time ago there were assorted posts that explained damage calculations and other nuggets of information, but the assorted documents were never updated. i am not sure if complexity was the issue or the fact that no one really understands (or documented) them all."
"asking for game mechanics is like asking for the laws of physics to be documented and typed up and posted here.with mathematical proofs and the whole nine yards.good intentions or not.... not gonna happen."
"simple idea: we got wiki.eveonline.com. we, the players, could just start documenting things we know. also collecting links to external documentation (gridfu e.g.).thoughts?"
"ccp long ago did document a good portion of the missile, tracking and misc other combat mechanics. it's not like they are sending a man to the moon, they used to provide it and then stopped. if you don't know how things are supposed to work, it makes it very hard to provide several hundred thousand people as qa/qc testers when a baseline is not provided."
"nuff said"
"stupid alliance name breaks forums.good idea though, support."
"give me more of a reason to grind more thukker lp on the alt."
"so you want parrots, eye-patches, peg-legs and the like? i agree with the idea but fail to see what sort of items might be added that wont make them look like empire lp store copies (faction resists, damage mods etc.).what items do you have in mind?"
"you lose rigs for switching subsystems on a t3?i've never lost rigs when swapping my subs out. is this something that is a new occurance?if it's this way i support this as that is just stupid."
"are you high ?not supported"
"erm, did i mess something up?"
"very simple request , appologies if this has been raised already.but pleeeaassee.make the ammo section of the right click menu on turrets and bays display in alphabetical order."
"not a big issue for me, but why not."
"1) sort of...when you are viewing the graph at the bottom right there is a button that says \"show chart\". reading that chart tells you how the market moved from day to day.there are several columns but for your purposes you want to look at the low price, high price, and the average. that is the lowest price an order sold for(buy or sell) the highest price an order sold for(buy or sell) and the average prices of all sells.i never figured that out until i caught a perfect situation in which an item i was looking at had the same qty for order and sell but the average was not the average price between the two points.example10 sell order, 10 buy orders.low 100 million, high 150 million.average 140 million.the result is basically that one buy order got filled at 100 million and four sell orders got filled at 150 million. this is also show on the graph by little yellow dots but it's not that apparent and sometimes seems to be missing completely.i would like the chart to display the information you're requesting but the information is present."
"they're already pretty paper thin - going even moreso would make them hard to use, as they're 650mil each. losing even one of them means that you lost the battle, so they have to be a little resilient."
"dude, u're using real-life references as solutions to your problems in a game. the thing is in a game, u can do things u can't do in the real world... get a grip... damn..."
"i notice you fixed something that didn't need fixing as it's totally missing the point made. of course it makes \"discussing\" much easier.the main point is * carebears live in high sec to be reasonably safe from ganking - of course you can never be entirely safe in this game;* but if you are ganked you should either get an insurance of equal proportions to that of the ganker, or failing that, the ganker should not get a full recovery on the tool used in a criminal act.the other main reason that your fix is invalid is that it isn't really a real choice on the ganked player. to play the game as he/she intends (i.e. as a dedicated miner e.g.) you need to get ships of a certain value to make it worthwhile. to gank someone you don't need to make the same investment. and to add insult to injury, they are almost fully reimbursed by game mechanics."
"it seems to me (and this is just my opinion) that the only party here that is going to loose by a rule change is the gankers. they get their cake and eat it to. it is a reward from the game for being a ganker. since they get insurance and your loot, it is obvious that the game supports this. of course they are going to do everything they can to protect that, i would."
"no more riskless suicides. this is getting out of hand."
"1.0"
"1. exactly--u cannot be entirely safe in high sec. but here's the thing--it's up to the ganker to decide whether or not to do so. all u have to do is not make yourself a prime target to entice him further. if u don't fly an expensive uninsureable ship, it's within reason to say u won't be worth ganking. a slight effort on your part makes all the difference to be \"reasonably safe\".2. this reimbursement policy should change on the sole reason that the system is 0.5+ sec? if it was ccp's intention to take the game in that direction u propose, they would've changed it so u cannot even fire on other players in high sec at all.3. fix is valid because u do not need a t2 200 mil mining ship to \"make it worthwhile\", especially since u'll be afk making it, so why exaggerate about the rate if u don't even have to do most of the work? u're only letting t2 be your crutch by thinking u have to swear your life by it. guess what? u don't. sure u can gamble the 200 mil for little more efficiency, it's your choice... but think about it. u only mine slightly less with a covetor, which is practically zero loss if it gets blown up. and because of that, u don't even need to worry about fitting low slot tank mods and just go for the cargo expanders or even a mining upgrade because it won't even be worth ganking. and whoever still decides to shoot u down is either a moron or u did something to deserve it (in which case, u can either laugh at him or u got what was coming to u, respectively).to suicide someone, it takes lots of combat skillpoints, which doesn't finish in a day, or a lot of ppl who r willing to do the same thing with u and grind the sec status back up, and i mean actual ppl, not the multi-boxing u can do with mining. it may be a different investment, but it's still an investment. and it all hinges an unwitting victim being at the wrong place at the wrong time under the wrong circumstances, not a constant reliable stationary object u can count on to be there all the time to make isk. there's no 100% guarantee that u will down the target or u knowing exactly how much firepower u would need before it's a waste, and every attempt u make comes with a 100% guaranteed penalty. and even if u do down the target, there's no guarantee u'll get the loot before someone else beats u to it either.one thing that's constant in eve is the risk u take by using a ship or mod that boosts your efficiency by a degree. the higher the efficiency gained by the item, the higher the loss u incur by losing it, even in high sec. the degree of efficiency and risk of keeping that efficiency is your choice."
"choo-choo! threadnaught coming through."
"/signed"
"yes please !"
"agreed, i see some cool suggestions in the op.edit : besides changing empire space and adding lowsec between the 4 empires, i don't like that."
"sounds well thought and good ideas i like the black market and the own system idea"
"i agree 100%"
"i'm suprised someone hasn't shot you down because you're trying to base stuff on real life/realism. i'd watch the references as it's a big no no to some people.anyway, we have several 'dry dock' options, ship maint. array, just because you can't sit in it like a station doesn't mean that's not how it works. you store your ship inside the array. lots of room in a pos to offload that pesky crew who makes no difference to how the ship functions.i view the ship maintenance array just like i would docking in a station, just doesn't have a docked graphic. yes, you sit in space while you swap things, but that's not how i see it working. you still dock to get things swapped on your ship. i would guess the way the code it written you have to be in the ship to change it (same as if you're in a station). if that wasn't the case you could choose a ship in the array and swap moduals then board it (notice it's board as in get out and move to this ship).that is why i think t3 should be just as configureable. it's stupid that you can build them but you can't put one together in whole space."
"only makes sense. you should be able to utilize the abilities of ships in the area where their components are found . . ."
"supported. hope this issue is taken seriously."
"bring back ye old sounds!!"
"sound is fubared. please fix."
"fix sound cpp"
"supported! pre-apocrypha sound was much better. please fix it!p.s.btw shame."
"supported"
"100% support from here too, try watching a movie without sound...."
"yes, please.rewarding ppl who have left the game and then handing out millions of isk when they return to then play for free (by buying plex cards) is not supporting the active playing community."
"i am for it. makes no sense in earning whilst gone."
"i'm torn.on the one hand, raising the security status was one of the early goals of placid reborn back in the day, back when a sufficiently interesting group of role-players could get enough ccp attention to actually influence the storyline - the plight of placid and the existence of the separatists became canon eventually. a more general proposal then involved developing game mechanics so that players could dynamically influence a system's sec status depending on pirate vs anti-pirate activity.on the other hand, changing it now would deminish some rather interesting rp angles and might come with unforeseen consequences as the storyline team finds reasons to make that 300 year old request for isolation less unreasonable, given the current status of the gallente. likewise, i think it has a snowball's chance in hell, but i suppose it's worth asking."
"supported"
"**** you all if you want to impose your twisted sense of morality on me.if you want to demonstrate your self-control and superior breeding then go for it.personally...... i don't like being told what i can and can't say. individual words no matter how vulgar do not hold this power."
"i just got gagged for using the same words ccp use in their keynote fanfest address.i was simply using language used by ccp staff as that was the community standard i have been shown by ccp."
"i got gagged for saying the words ***** and balls from gm zerat while a buddy of his used the f-word over and over in the same chat and never got gagged. figure that one out. it was the same conversation and he said/did nothing to the other guy."
"no support here.if you cant work out a way to express your displeasure about something other than swearing, maybe you should be spending more time in school rather than in eve."
"supported!"
"i disagree. active tanks should be very strong but highly capacitor dependent. this should be where their vulnerabilty lies. you get heavily neuted... you're buggered. i think even 10% is a wishful boost. 9% is probably a good figure to request."
"i believe your opinion in regards to the suggested 10%/lvl is misguided.if you compair the cyclone with an active tank vs an ehp tank, you would realize that asking for the bonus to become 10% is the bare minimum it needs.if you don't understand then perhaps you should ask liang.liang had a good understanding of tanking, active/passive/ehp"
"supported!"
"because we just cannot let gallente and minmatar have any ship that comes close in pve effectiveness of a raven, can we?"
"yes please!"
"+1 from me"
"yes, please. the active tank buff is probably the first step of things that should be fixed with gallente. next up, please fix blasters."
"too true....active tanks blow in pvp."
"has to be two fold however, must stacking penalize the buffer rigs."
"being able to sort the deliveries list by distance is something that is indeed very badly needed, and has been forever."
"tired of coutless posts about \"why my black ops arnt like chuck norris?\", i would like to offer some more realistic ideas about boosting black ops roles.yes they have less dps then t1 bss, as they should, they have less tanking capability, and so on.so no, they do not need more weapon slots, they do not need higher bonuses for dps, they do not need higher t2 resistances or tanking bonuses. they do not need covert ops cloak (stealth aproach with mwd + cloak for now is unique, since even bombers lost it), well... none of bonuses of black opses should be changed, they are fine as they are now. not perfect may be, but fine.if you are so stupid to bring black ops on lame role of gate camper (for example), and then lost it - you earn that lost.so what changes need to be done then?well, changes should be done not to black opses themself.first of all, i do remeber very well that ccp mentioned here on forum that they don't mind to make strategic cruisers with 'covert ops reconfiguration' subsystem able to fit covert cyno. they even had that ability listed, but it didnt actualy worked. and scs realy lack of that ability. so if you (ccp) realy dont mind to give them back that ability and make it actualy working - plz do.second. in highsecs you cant engage cyno field, and that is quiet understandable. i remeber time then ccp brought in black opses, but covert cynos wasnt been allowed in 0.0 systems with cyno jammer as well. they've fix that latter. well i think its a time to allow cover cynos in highsecs as well. no disbalancing realy, you still cant bring cap ships, and very few ships able to travel via covert portal. yes i know, some ppl will use them to portal blockade runner (especialy on hard route jita-hek), but thats not a bad idea after all, it is a blocked runners after all, they are very hard to catch even without portals, and after all portals wont make them 100% uncatchable. as for anything else, i wont mentioned what great ideas and oportunites can be achieved. those who are realy love black opses will find how to use that feature on their own pretty soon. those who wont be able to figure it out... should try some other ships.... drake may be? :)and last. allow cover cyno in... dead space. yes, i know what does that mean, i know how much whine will come after first... practical using of covert cyno in ds. and since i am myself belong to... ehm, caste of players who can encounter of... consequences after using cover cyno in ds by other players. well, i feel disgustingly even by thinking of such thing, not mentioning offering that idea on forums. but still wish to see that change :)well and having summed up:make scs with covert subsystems able to fit covert cyno.allow covert cyno in highsec space.allow covert cyno in deadspace.and sorry for my english."
"no to the cyno in highsec."
"yes for all:) it will be funny:p"
"why not?how does this will... abuse gameplay?"
"hot dropping should remain something for lowsec/0.0"
"some people prefer empire wars because they don't need to fear random hot drops, that totally unbalance all strategy and scouting.also, do you really want to see 10 cynos outside jita station, with people dropping in and out all the time?"
"hot droping of black opses (and ships that able to use covert portal) not the same as capship hot droping.black opses not cheap (less cheap then capital ships (not supercapital), since insurance wont pay you much), they are less capable for open battle even then t1 bss, and after all, even hot droping can be counter-measured. while losing gang of black opses will be real pain in the ass for attackers.even ganking are allowed in highsecs, so why not hot drop of bos? will be something new and intresting in highsec of-wars (and not only)."
"hot dropping a bunch of stealth bombers on a wartarget will be devastating enough. we should leave that to lowsec/0.0. really."
"as i said already, bos are not cheap ship, with which you can easily pick another bo after losing first one. you have to pay not a small summ of money to have an oportunity of hot droping in highsecs. also, i dont think bo will bring unbalancing in combat. it isnt even a t1-tier1-bs equal.as for jita.well, may be making jita exlusive systems there covert cynos are not allowed (this list can be expanded to amarr, oursulaert, dodixie, rens, hek).and/or, prohibiting cover cynos closer then... well, lets say 50km from stations, only in highsecs (means you can as usual put covert cyno anythere you want in low/0.0/wh)."
"and why wars should be... safe :)war is war. best you can do durring it (if you won't actualy to participate in it) is to go to lowsec, 0.0, or even better wh-space for a while (not mentioning simply leaving the corp for short period).otherwise you will be in dire threat no matter of presence of such hot droping, or absence of it."
"so current empire wars are mainly station camping with rr alt friends.on top of that we add neutral covop alt hot dropping.yes a very welcome change to the game."
"my support!"
"another bo proposal"
"+1please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"current situation: if i set up a want to buy contract for a blueprint, i can specify the blueprint type, and nothing else. proposed solution: allow us to set characteristics for any blueprints we have listed as items we'll receive. a switch for whether it's a copy, a minimum number of runs if it is, and a minimum me and minimum pe. in other words, if i have a contract set up to buy an omen bpc to invent off, it might look something like \"money offered: 1,000,000 isk. required items: omen blueprint copy x1, 15+ runs, 0+ me, 0+ pe\", and anyone with a bpc meeting those limits can sell to me. benefits: this will allow for much better contract markets for blueprints, and should lower headaches for players at least somewhat. drawbacks: the interface would be somewhat more complex for these type of contracts. however, since these contracts don't exist at present, this seems like a minor drawback - better ugly contracts than none at all."
"supporting a herschel proposal."
"what a crazy man, with insane ideas! how could anyone support such a lunatic!!!!"
"makes sense!"
"i luv you...i support you...i would mine with you, if it was more interesting ._.no sh!t, there is a reason why i ice mine. unless you are a macro (*sigh* oh my f()cking god! he said ze m word!), you can't really get a well profit out of ore-mining in high sec compeered to a russian raven doing lvl 4 missions. people often forget they mine, cus they simply have eve minimized, watching pr00n, playing browser-games, so on. - it's way too boring.in short: do it more interesting please.btw i thought ccp was invented on iceland not frekin usa, this censur make me crazy, even frekin pr00n with one 0 is disabled >.< wtf ccp get real"
"i don't mine, because it's really boring, but maybe there are a few ways to make it more interesting. perhaps figuring out the mining pattern of a field (for instance in the oil sands they have to approach each day and plan out their dig, where each shovel will come from), or checking roids for composition and whether they are worth mining instead of knowing right off the bat what the roids are and what they'll give. or perhaps making the logistics of mining itself be more interesting then target>point>shoot>wait. there are many interesting games dealing with just logistics and planning (railroad tycoon comes to mind)and it seems mining should seek methods to utilize this type of activity to make it fun."
"i too would like to hear if and what ccp is actually doing to improve the mining experience.tbh, i doubt they are doing much at all atm, for some reason other stuff always seems to get priority....show teh mining sum luv!1!!"
"well you didnt even get the last news about ccp's improvements to mining, which will be added to the game. why should ccp say it again?for all who missed it. we will get:- planet ring mining- comet miningfor both ccp said it wont be doable by macro miners and will involve lots of player interaction. hope this helps."
"well, since i started playing eve over 2 years ago i have heard a lot being said about improving mining but seen very little implemented."
"did you even read my post?since mining \"interaction\" have been neglected for so dang long, it would be really nice to see the csm ask ccp about what they are actually getting done.if they say that they're aiming for getting something out next expansion (less pew-pew crap, more mining!), or it's currently in a status of soon, which essentially means \"once everything else is done, including all bugs, ever, we'll look at it\".sometimes, it seems like ccp are just throwing out random ideas, and looking how much player feedback they're getting (through forums, perhaps?), and then prioritizing different projects.essentially, what are thier priorities; finish planetary interaction, launch dust 514, make t3 ships for all sizes (frigs, bs's, carriers, etc), reducing lag (rofl), adding new shiny crap that no one cares about*, and then work on improving mining."
"because the thrasher can shoot up to 120km. this was about railguns supposedly having bad tracking, not whether or not somebody can one shot something. my saying i could was saying that the railguns have tracking that works just fine.because the abaddon can shield tank and the hyperion can't right?if you can find me an abaddon with more than 1290 dps, and effectively have 133k ehp, let me know.blasters hit hardest of all close range weaponry.(not including missiles, because caldari are cheaters. d: ) there's nothing wrong with them. they have lower falloff and worse tracking because that's what they do. they're not autocannons, they're not pulse lasers. they're blasters. each race has it's versatility and this is what blasters came to be, ccp's not going to change anything in this thread as it's just a bunch of complaining about things that have been the way they are for 4 years or more. alsoccp is not blizzard, they won't succumb to unwarranted complaints like they do. read above statement's last line to see what i mean by unwarranted.hyperion doesn't need a pg boost. use rigs.8-3-8 would make it another amarr battleship, would ruin it's stability and utility. pvp hyperion can be armored tanked, albeit rather weak, but it would have a web, scram, 2 injectors and a mwd.shield hyperion would have 2 lse and 3 invulns, dcii with 3 cdfe rigs giving it a 133k ehp eft tank with 1291 dps with neutron ii's, 4 magnetic field stabilizers and a relay, loaded with cnam and hammerhead ii'snow, give it 8-3-8? impossible now to shield tank. only has room for a web, scram and mwd or scram, mwd and an injector. sure it has more lows but you know what? most of them are going to be going towards hardeners and relays, putting you in the same situation as before because your beloved proposal of removing mediums got rid of it's utility. so there goes your cap stability out the window and now you're prepared to be neutralized to death by a curse or dominix. nice huh? i certainly think so..... 1100 from a lar ii isn't enough while the other ships have to already suck at armor repping? times two mind you, so 2200."
"8-3-8 is insane.shield tanked ship with armor rep bonus is strange, is it?8-4-7 is more logical. 7 low slots are for armor tanking. 4 med slots are for web - scram/dis - ab/mwd - cap booster."
"it isnt uncommon. shield tanked myrm can be pretty hard to break."
"whether it's strange or not, it's doable, it's viable and people do it. just like people that armor tank ravens for wormholes or sometimes even pvp. just like people who use blasters on prophecies. no, it doesn't have a gun bonus i realize this. you're probably thinking as you read this \"so, it makes it perfectly fine to use any guns on it\" indeed, and this is also the case for shields on the hyperion despite the armor repairing bonus. if it's doable, then it's a viable method. shield tanking a hyperion's been a way of pvp since revelations.edited out something i said, carry on."
"8-4-7 makes it a mega only different.i like the option to shield tank it.i like the option to run mwd, web, scram, injector and then have an eccm or another injector or some other ewar."
"why it is doable and viable on hyperion? may be because armor tanking is not definitely better than shield tanking even considering ship bonus. imho it is not good"
"pardon me, but 2+3=5 and that's all the mid slots a hype has. where oh where art thou, my mwd? simply put, an abaddon will smoke you every single time if you bring that shield hype to a fight and in a gang you won't deal any damage to anyone but the first primary (if that). let's try this again realistically:[hyperion, gank hype]magnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iitracking enhancer iitracking enhancer iidamage control iiquad lif fueled i booster rocketsshadow serpentis warp scramblerlarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iineutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge lneutron blaster cannon ii, caldari navy antimatter charge llarge core defence field extender ilarge core defence field extender ilarge core defence field extender iogre ii x4103k ehp, 1292 dps @ 5.8+20[abaddon, pvp abaddon]heat sink iiheat sink iiheat sink ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iidamage control ii100mn microwarpdrive iwarp disruptor iiheavy capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800fleeting propulsion inhibitor imega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency lmega pulse laser ii, imperial navy multifrequency llarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump ilarge trimark armor pump iogre ii x2hammerhead ii x2hobgoblin ii x1134k ehp, 1126 dps @ 15+10. abaddon advantages:- much much better range (outdamages the hype past ~10km, yay falloff!)- similar damage- instant ammo switch- doesn't rely on a mwd to get into range- much better tackle- more ehp- can reasonably be rr'ed and makes good use of it.- better implant availability [slaves]hype advantages:- better absolute tracking (but much worse effective damage at range)- faster- slightly more agile- slightly more theoretical dps where it can't really track so welllet me reiterate: the hype is a steaming pile of **** next to an abaddon.-liang"
"nothing wrong here. it just gives people the chance for out of the box set ups."
"i give up, lol. nobody can accept the reality that the hyperion is not crap. it may not be as useful as every other ship with certain jobs because it's not meant to be. until you realize this, i wish safe skies to all of you who oppose reality, you're going to need it. i will leave you with this though;give up this thread, ccp's not going to look twice at your suggestions because the hyperion's been the way it has been for 4 years. it's design is flawless.magistrate aribeth, signing out."
"now it becomes a problem when those out of box setups are the only setups that work. \but it still ins't a problem, right? it's a useless ship, just live with it! /sarcasmi agree that having options is nice, but first the ship need to do it's job. powegrid boost is needed for sure, then maybe slot layout change or increase in the repair bonus."
"never really understood why it wasn't this way in the first place. supported."
"supported, should have been in with all ewar right away."
"no brainer"
"always wondered why these were left out"
"just make the timer 23hrs. it sux jump cloning only to have to wait past the time you did so the next day. it follows suit with a 23/7 eve uptime.either way, something needs to change. so supported for change."
"i also approve. however i believe 12 hours is a happy medium."
"just a 5 hour reduction at lvl5 for a rank 10 skill would be enough.supported in principle, numbers may need tweaking as suggested."
"i think i supported an older version, but so supported"
"10% or even 15% reduction per skill level, would result in:lvl 0 - 24:0010% reduction___15% reductionlvl 1 - 21:36___20:24lvl 2 - 19:12___16:48lvl 3 - 16:48___13:18lvl 4 - 14:24___09:36lvl 5 - 12:00___06:00make it a high rank skill,.. something like 12 or 14 even."
"there is nothing wrong with blobbing and they will be the same size no matter what the fleet limit is. by increasing the size you will simply increase the variety of tactics that can be used and that will make eve batter for all of us. honesty atm people just run 4 fleets at a time. no one is put off form bringing numbers because of some 256 small man sized game mechanic. 256 was made the limit not to limit fleets but simply because that was the greatest fleet size imagined of at the time."
"thats a good thing btw. it plays on what eve can do that no other game can do."
"this is a great idea, and people have been asking for it for a long time. i think some of the problems would be a very big jump in database size when, all of a sudden, every bodies hanger develops six or seven separate divisions.we could probably fix that by making the number of extra tabs in your hanger skill/item dependent; say an extra tab in your hanger (and cargo hold!!!) per level of 'inventory management' skill or however many 'inventory management nodes' you have installed there."
"excellent!"
"he say's it all, make high sec area's that are past null sec, which would make a diverse and fun marketing environment.discuss below how this would be done within eve's storyline and faction's that could hold said high sec areas.if you don't like the idea, please explain why."
"interesting idea in my opinionbtw. i think this idea belongs in features and ideas.how big would the new high sec area be? and would there be a new faction originating there? several?that would make eve bigger and introduce a (highly?) contested piece of null sec space between the high sec areas. the holding sov in that new part of null sec could chose to block passage or only impose a 'small' fee on those who want to pass their space."
"rather than just have more hi-sec, i'd much rather see \"different-sec\" - with different conditions applying.for example, tortuga-like \"pirate-sec\" zones where the different pirate factions interact with each other. rules of engagement would be very different from empire, with no concord as such, but considerably stronger, more aggressive and more vindictive faction police. pirate faction standings would be very important in this space. this would make them a kind of halfway status between hi-sec and lo-sec.these would also be a great opportunity to introduce pirate faction warfare.and then of course there are the sleepers..."
"if and when new regions are introduced, it could be an interesting idea to see isolated pockets of lowsec or highsec amongst the 0.0 space.the question is do we need more space at all? considering that most of 0.0 and lowsec (and wormhole space, although the lack of local or map functions makes it hard to tell) is already deserted, wouldn't it be a better use of development time to make those areas attractive rather than dilute the population density even further with more space?"
"/signed"
"supportedalso, check several other useability threads. eves ui and control schemes needs a serious overhaul but little steps will ease on to the complete overhaul."
"yes! this would make logistics so much smother as your slowest function is the unlock via right click menu."
"1.0"
"hmm... so maybe i should actualy try it it never got of the eft fitting screen for me, i was too disapointed in the stats.. also shield tank might work"
"*facepalms* thank you for your contribution to the discussion."
"what about scripts for webs?leave unscripted webs as they are now, but add script so you can: increase range but at a lower speed reduction lower range but increase speed reduction in general the current web is a bit \"under powered\" but due the ability to stack multiple on one target boosting the effect of one would be imho to much.scripting though would allow a higher variety in engagement distance and fuzzing the \"simple\" avoid 7.5 for scrams, avoid 10k for webs, avoid 20 for disruptor engagements.supported as a discussion could be health with scripting as option."
"scripted webs i like :-pmy 100/120km range fleet boosted rapier's especially would love them!"
"scripted webs sound interesting indeed."
"that depends on a bit of number crunching.e.g. extending range for 50% but at the same time reducing the speed reduction for 50% would imho still balance the extended range. you still couldnt really point something at 60km with a faction web even if you add another 50% to that range so your opponent would be still able to warp out. also the speed reduction would be 50% lower than at \"normal\" range."
"your backstory is a bit off here. mwd supposedly works by creating a partial warp bubble allowing your ship to slip through space more easily, not pulsing a warp bubble on and off. the warp bubble is supposedly created by evacuating a pocket of space of all energy. scrams prevent warp by filling the space with energy undoing the work the warp drive is trying to do to form the bubble.i really like the idea of scriptable webs, or maybe a web boost amp module."
"it is as simple as i put it. this idea works best if ccp has the ability to \"ghost\" themselves into an area. while i dont know for sure id be surprised if they didnt. it is practically inconceivable to me that they cant actively watch a specific account- at worst they can tell where your at and what you are actively doing.if i am mining and get up to get a beer, spill the beer and have to clean up the kitchen floor you would have me banned.no- because if you are cleaning beer you arent \"active\" under my definition. you must be \"actually\" doing things to be considered active. so your lasers are on but your not there- fine your afk, not a problem. you warp away to store the ore? well then your active and should be able to respond.if i am on voice with my fleet or corp and have chat minimized you would have me banned.iirc you get a pop up when someone pm's you. i always have anyway. if not- its easy enough to add that to the list of dev powers. dev chats supersede any and all options set by the account user.if i am managing by buy/sell orders and have the chat window covered up you would have me banned.no again, for the same reasons as the second question. it wouldnt be difficult for a dev chat to appear differently then normal pm's. obviously they would have to implement this in a way that couldnt be blocked- and would be noticed regardless of player settings. because the dev is actively monitoring your in game responses (ie they can tell if your inputting commands) any harmful interference risk would be minimized. by this i mean they wouldnt be bugging you in the middle of pvp or something of that nature.edit to respond to \"anything can be programed into a bot\". this is what makes this idea work. you can not program infinite responses to unknown questions. a 1 min convo is more then enough to determine if its a human or if its a bot."
"i don't know how dev/gm chats work, but i'm somewhat sure that it's most definitely not just something that \"goes to be minimized\" - it's probably more like a popup, downtime-style.it should also be pretty recognisable of how far the timeout should be - if you're moving ore, and not responding, obviously you're either not very smart, or a macro."
"talk to me or i'll ban you?play this crappy mini-game or i'll ban you?click 15 more times a minute or i'll ban you?all non-solutions."
"only the first has been proposed here. its not something that would be \"automatic\". odds are- you could play for months or years and not have it happen. its another tool to determine with absolute certainty if someone is a bot or not. the alternative- is what happens now. every once in a great while the most obvious macros are banned. most trade bots never are- the smarter macro miners never will be.i would rather have the minor inconvenience of a 1-3 min convo once in a great while then live with the constant and ongoing effects of a massive macro presence."
"i can see it now... future mutant goes afk for 10 mins and gets banned.win win for all.yep... smooth move exlax."
"i really wish ppl would at least read the first post before deciding good/bad. if you had you would clearly see the part about needing to be actually doing things (inputting commands) before they could declare you unresponsive (ie a bot)"
"if you're afk, you aren't activating/deactivating any mods.and you're not docking.and you're not modifying market orders.you might get blown up.... what is it with you people and afk-bans?!"
"supported as long as the dev could tell if its a good time to bother me. dont want to talk to one in the middle of a fleet fight."
"i did... i suggest you read your own writing and take into account the number of things that goes on when people are afk.this is why such stupid proposals will never fly.last thing i want to happen is to be mining at a rock... go afk... come back just in time and some \"mysterious\" lag spike kicks in... i get convo'd.. the idiot at the backbone trips over the ethernet cable.. and i get banned because of some idiot whose name is undisclosed \"oh we're sorry for the inconvenience.\"please... think before you go ranting about macro's... you people make me laugh and cry all at once.btw.... you do know you can script responses right?yeah... i figured as much."
"you think you can script a response for an infinite amount of questions? id like to see that.supporting what is the least intrusive, most useful tool ive heard of so far."
"yeah....but your assuming that ccp will use an infinite of questions.look up the various chat clients that have ai's programed to respond to questions like its a natural convo.... real life stuff.... big time. you'd be surprised what you could pull off with a bit of programming.so what are you saying? we're going to get asked questions?what questions?when did this get so complicated again?is everyone that dense these days when it comes to rational thinking?or is it your just so bitter that you want macro's banned any way you can all the while taking it out on the guys who mine legitimately.yeah... i see what you did there.please people... try to get to first gear before you hit the gas pedal eh?"
"you disagree with the idea but havent come up with any reason why other then you think it will effect \"actual\" players more. no where in the suggestion does it even suggest bothering miners at random. if ccp suspects a macro- this is a new way for them to check.in your infinite wisdom you try to act like you know ****- without actually writing anything worth reading. at least detail why you dont like an idea other then your holier then thou nonsense.tl/dr- ccp already uses measures to ban macros. its a difficult and time consuming task. this is just one more tool they can use."
"cause it's a bad idea?it just is mate.as for scripted responses, you wouldn't even need any ai, with 5 or 6 somewhat non-committal responses a user often can't turning test a bot effectively. many icq/msn spam bots for example just have pause periods and pre-set responses. it's easier then ai chatter bots and works just as well for short conversations.it's a bad idea. the false-positives are too high, and it proves nothing in relation to macro use.fails on all counts and doesn't solve anything."
"i think your overestimating the capabilities of a chat bot that would be usable to the average user. but thats a concern at least- if used successfully then you would get a false negative, not a false positive. the only way you could get a false positive is something along the lines of what drak described. somehow in between the time the dev convos you and you input a command (proving to the dev your online) you become unable to respond- distracted, or d/ced. ccp would have to use their judgment- as they do know. they already use methods to punish macros. this would just add another way to differentiate between a person and a bot.this would not be a magic solution to macros. they shouldnt punish at the first sign of inactivity. but if they convo you, and you ignore them for 20 mins while you continue to place buy/sell orders, i would consider that as proof of botting- or proof of ignoring the newest rule that one must answer a devs pm.ninja edit- the phrase you were thinking of is \"turing test\""
"no i'm saying your method does zero to stop a macro.it would however punish those that have never run a macro.as for chatter bots i'm saying you don't even need to code one, just need to respond to the gm with \"i'm busy **** off and let me play my game\". then when the gm says \"i need you to respond\" it says \"i've responded now **** off!\"that doesn't take any special ai or advanced coding.really mate this is an amazingly bad idea, poorly concieved, not thought-through and generally lacking in any merit or chance of a positive outcome."
"check out an aim screen name called smarterchild:"
"suicide ganking is the most effective mechanism to combat afk macros available."
"even if that was true- it does absolutely nothing for trade bots.checked out the bot someone mentioned-smarterchild changed his status to \"offline\" in may 2009 and officially retired.it was never an installable program, while ai like this do exist most are at universities on computers much larger then a desktop.this idea, has been done successfully on other games. it is not overly invasive and much better then alternatives ive heard. i dont believe complacency is the answer, we obviously have an increasingly large macro presence and traditionally used methods are unlikely to do more then make a temporary dent. but hey, show me what a bad idea it is by coming up with one thats better."
"the bot it's based on is alice i believe. which is freely available.just so very wrong. there is nothing too cpu intensive about chatter bots, while there are thousands available for use in anything from desktop im apps to apis for your own programming. you could even get chatter bots for your 64k ram computer in 1979.this isn't runescape. have you seen how much they butchered that game with an over-zealous focus on anti-macro stuff? ccp has their methods for checking up on people. they know what they're doing. unholy rage banned a large number of accounts with limited false-positives.better idea for dealing with macros?work on the demand side with great, fast, usable, ui that gives no one a reason to macro.....or you could just add a bunch more hurdles to make it even more painful.solve a captcha each time you put in a market order.... no thanx."
"so your way of dealing with macros- is not to deal with macros. great thats helpful. well at least you didnt suggest what you did in another thread- automated mining isnt a solution btw, thats what a macro is.and where do you keep getting the \"solve a capcha\" nonsense? this has nothing to do with captcha, and isnt an automated system at all anyway. its not something you have to do before you can do something else."
"question for the op:dev sends me the convo - does that block my clicking of other buttons on the screen? iow, am i still going to be able to click to activate modules, or warp out of somewhere, or something like that? or is this going to be a modal window that blocks me from accessing the screen behind it while it's present?reserving judgment until i get an answer."
"its a bit open ended depending on implementation. best case scenerio- they would be able to tell what you are doing and where. and would avoid bothering ppl in combat. probable scenerio- a convo box pops up, hopefully stacked with your other convo boxes and not interfering with anything. im not entirely sure how pm popup boxes work now- if you have to accept or decline before any other action is possible or not. i would think it could be implemented in a way that minimizes interference while being impossible not to notice- but i cant say how it would end up if implemented."
"nice trap de.... hehe... gotta love software engineers/programmers.time for you to go back to the drawing board kid.... you obviously didn't put much thought into this.hell you've ignored everyones arguments on the matter.... and while i don't particullary like dr. battlesmith... he's right.... total waste of time... and yes i've seen \"alice\" in action... freaky stuff... had a college mate show one of his chat programs to me.... freeeaaaaaky stuff."
"ive ignored you because you havent added anything constructive. calling someone kid doesnt make you sound more intelligent, it makes you sound like an idiot. im sorry your life is so lacking you balance it out with your internet epeen- but not my problem. if you have anything to add other then \"wont work\" then by all means post it.as for artificial ai programs. the very best can, and have, be defeated with 10 questions or less. even assuming someone comes up with a chat bot great enough to pass muster- then it would be a negative result and no harm done.this is by no means a solution to ending botting. it simply adds another tool to their list of tools they already have and use. i know of many ppl who dont bother to report suspicious activity because as they put it- \"nothing will be done anyway\". let the players report suspicious activity and have the devs sort through evidence and come to a conclusion in a timely manner. one mass ban a year is hardly timely and is nothing more then a baid aid approach.still waiting on your suggestion to the problem. at least battlesmith posted his. though i disagree with the feasibility of a ui rework- its not a bad idea. i question its effectiveness in ending botting though. bots exist not because the game is hard- they exist to exploit the game. tl/dr- i get it- you dont think it will work. reposting the same sorry insults over and over doesnt make you right, or me wrong."
"i guess my point is, i obviously don't want to be stopped from performing actions in the middle of, say, morduus headhunters, or trying to get away from a gatecamp, or any other situation where a second's pause where i can't act can result in the loss of my ship. and if we can't provide some insurance that this won't happen, i can't support this proposal."
"even worse is that he doesn't understand the nature of the bots at all.a bot running a screen sc**** can be programed to alert an operator to a chat window alert or anything else of the sort. hell it could probably bring the client in question to the top as well so anyone setting at the computer could instantly respond. yes this would stop the 23/7 bots if they are unmanned but since a lot of the bots are run by gold farmers it's likely that they are manned at all times.the bots are not that hard to find though. even market bots(especially market bots). first, because a user simply can't be active 23/7 for weeks on end without sharing an account which is a violation in the eula and will result in a ban. second, because a bot can't actually be random. even a market bot has to function on pre-programmed parameters and eventually you can spot a pattern in their activity. if you do report it to ccp and let them handle it. the thing is you can't eliminate bots of any kind. the trick is to make programming them to appear like actual players so difficult that there is a significant barrier to entry. this will reduce the casual use of bots which is what mining bots were used for in the past. mining bots, being relatively simple, are easier to program to be random and are harder to catch the pattern. market, ratting, and mission bots are significantly more difficult to program and thus are more limited in number. however, the increased difficulty in programming them makes programming them to appear random just that much more difficult. this is where you get into the area of people doing it for money and not an isk advantage.no poke or prod is going to really going to work. find the pattern and ban the pattern because the interaction can be worked around.so your motivations are admirable but you don't seem to understand what you are trying to fix. it's like a file clerk trying to fix a jet engine, ain't happening."
"bingo."
"bump"
"doesn't add value to the game, can not handle any task faster than a skilled player can. in fact, the only thing it seems to make easier is semi-afk play, which i would rather see made harder than easier.i would rather ccp work on another feature. any other feature.not supported."
"time to change that, i totally agree. maybe it is intended ingame mechanic and not an exploit, but it has the same effect as an exploit. you have to sit by and watch another player steal away what you had to work for without being able to fight back.all i ask as well is the possibility to fight back without being insta killed by concord.if the salvage thief has a stronger ship or corp mates who help him in case of a fight, very well. then it's your problem, but this way you would have the chance to do something if you want.right now it's just durn stupid and without any fun (yes it's still a game and it ought to be fun) or game balance."
"the solution is simple - run missions in low or nullsec, shoot anyone you want to."
"i can't believe this wasn't brought up before the derail.your argument and basis of \"understanding\" the situation is actually \"wrong\".here we'll use your mining analogy.the miner shoots the rock.the ore is his.you are correct about that.follow me now, it gets difficult here.the salvager shoots the wreck (with the salvage gun).the salvage is his.exactly like the ore scenario you described.in your own example you perfectly show the parallels.asteroid is to wreckasore is to salvage materialsa miner shoots a rock.... and any other miner can come up and shoot that rock and take ore off of it faster than he can and therefore \"steal the rock\" just like a salvager can use his salvage gun on the wreck (wreck-asteroid) before the other salvager (the guy who shot the pirate to \"spawn\" the wreck-asteroid) can fire his gun on it.... thereby stealing his \"ore\" or \"salvage\"...it's completely even and the same mechanic miners have... the only difference is miners only have to shoot rats in a belt to clean it out before they can mine whereas missioners have to shoot rats out of the site before they can.... oh wait... it's exactly the same!!!!!!"
"to the op.your opinion has been heared by ccp several times and ccp is not your opinion and you're welcome to try to change their minds.till then htfu and dont try to come up with any \"logic\", real life, exploit comparison or game ideas, just try to find some more support for your cause, as already said ccp is not your opinion.for all those who not support this thread, there are several more important issues than to try to argument something which as already been argumented to death.bump something important and let this die the death of page 2."
"if your missions salvage is so crucial to you, use a marauder then.tractor beam bonus, tanking bonus and uses less ammo. you can salvage as you go and not lose out on dps.lets face it, this is only an issue for hisec mission runners, so why not use the expensive ship custom built for exactly this purpose?for the record: not supported."
"just to get rid off any mis conceptions on the matter,you will never get rid off macro, bots or hacks, never... !!!every file and program is no more then 1's and 0's and can be backwards engineered, and will be for as long as there are nerds and bored students. \"just because we can !!!!\"you can make it harder, use encryptions put in scanners and so on...this will cost money, need up-keeping and possibly make things slower. do you want to pay more to play just to make it harder to macro mine? or ask yourself \"do i need more lagg, just to prevent a basement nerd from marco mining?\", people that get payed for it will just work around the problem anyway.any solution, how simple it may seem, can be very complicated, or take a lot of time to implement.and now oke, say we get rid of all the macro miners. \"do i really want to pay 2 times more for my pvp ships?\" i don't, do you?.and what is the problem? are macro miners really making the game less fun for you? or are you jealous that they make more isk being afk then you?you can do all the posting and crying in the world. that will not change how people are and that there are macro miners. get used to it and move on... (same thing with anti-war rallies, \"don't be anti-war, be pro-peace !!!!!\")se serion,"
"yes please !just a minor thing but would help a lot."
"i'm pretty much going to support anything that makes eve look prettier."
"fix'd\"beauty is in the eye of the beholder\""
"i might not be able to speak for the moa, thanatos, and navitas. but i have heard many people complain about the look of the griffon, imiscus, and dominix. i can't recall ever listening to someone defend the graphics of any of the ships listed."
"there's a wide variety of ship designs out there. yes, you'll like some more than others. no that doesn't mean the others are bad. none of the ones you listed are a problem. people just like to complain."
"it seems to me that people are getting more and more frustrated at how the game mechanic of building a nulsec empire and then losing it so easily. people love to build things in eve, it is a huge part of the game. people also want to be able to invade other empires and blow stuff up.so how to keep the builders and the destroyers happy? idea #1. have an empire capital system and each system from that capital is just a little less defended or easier to take down. so lets say you have an alliance like i.t., well their outer systems would be easy to take out but their core systems and capital would be rediculously hard to conquer over a month. that way it will also limit the size of empires but allow alliances to at least cling to small ones they put so much work into.lets say you are a small alliance and want to put effort into building a well defended group of five systems. well it would take a force twice as large or stronger than you to destroy your sov space for example but this same small alliance would have a very hard time expanding into a major empire.idea #2. allow empires to lock gate access to systems in their nulsec empire. this would limit movement in their empires making conquering them slower and could require a system by system invasion if empires systematically lock down gates. also it could be an isk sink...lets say it costs 2billion isk a month to lock a gate down. this will allow empires who want to protect their inner core awhile to do so by locking the gates to those systems. nulsec belongs to players, lets kick concord out too :pthese are general ideas, please add to them or edit them as you think would work. the whole point of these two idea's is to allow those who want to build a nulsec empire to do so and allow them to hold a small core of systems longer even if they are invaded. it would require a really strong force to destroy someones well defended core systems for example."
"so i have a nice constellation with just one entrance. lock that entrance. boom save pocket and nobody can get in. even more safe then highsec. notice something?what would be the danger of living there then? just you farming your upgraded systems?not supported"
"take a peek"
"nice troll... please kindly go back to your cave.i got a kill (loss) mail to prove it... one of my corpmates smartbombed a rock.... got concorded... swore like a.... well yeah.he wasn't happy... lost a faction fit... oops."
"will results or an update on the ganking issue be posted in this thread after the iceland meeting?i am monitoring this issue for a return to eve if it is sorted. thank you. cletus"
"nope, results of the iceland summit will be in a new thread not this one. this forum though.from previous discussions i'm certain an outright ban on suicide ganking is unlikely and the probable outcome will be removal of insurance payouts to the gankers. even if this is agreed it will be some time before it makes it into game."
"thanks for the update. me and several others have closed our multiple accounts in protest. our grievence isn't that ganking be banned, but the slap in the face that the gankers are giving the \"gankee\" with insurance, recouping all of their loss while we don't.hulkagedon and trade route gate camps proves that point daily. our slap back is paying cryptic studios (s.t.o.) instead of ccp. if eve is meant to be recreation, it isn't from our perspective. thanks again, i will monitor this forum in the future."
"i agree, let it be able to probe out cloaked ships, require astrometrics v ."
"idea of giving black ops a boost supported, but xtover is a ****tard.issue one: according to ccp, the current database/server structuring does not allow people to query the location of cloaked ships. everything would have to be overhauled to allow this.issue two: even if it were feasible, would you really want to break cloaking by allowing anyone to scan down a cloaked ship? bad idea and you should feel bad."
"wow you shoot the messenger too, eh? how dare someone support a topic you don't agree with![citation needed]if there's no query showing how to find cloaked ships, however every ship and every item in a system has a coordinate. look it up when you make a bookmark. it's not in place but can be. i'd love to see that quote. please find it for me.it's not breaking cloaking. it's taking a black ops vessel to hunt down another. it's a ship that costs anywhere from half to three-quarters of a billion isk (more than a carrier, for example), and that currently less people own than own titans in the game... less than 300 people fly them, and most don't want to train for it let alone spend the isk.first, i love everything cloaky. over 90% of my main's kills are in bombers.i however also can fly a widow and would love to see it more useful instead of sitting in a station, or used as a mobile stargate filled with cargo expanders, ozone and isotopes."
"doesn't work for hulkageddon (which was hilarious event btw.) and similar for the lulz-gankers. i have a problem with that, and the problem is that they're able to have their lulz for free, with almost no penalty. the \"business\"-doing suicidegankers also can get away with trivial penalty of kill rights (of one individual) and minor sec status loss. risk versus reward ratio is even better than with missionrunning or mining, considering that the risk is trivial and reward is potentially huge. (as for why the risk is trivial, you should know by now, but i'll address it later.)that would make high sec no-risk area. currently it isn't that for anyone except suicidegankers.so you're saying that miners shouldn't try maximize their effectiveness because an unfair and illogical system is used against them? also, afk-mining isn't any way prohibited. actually, the way i see it, the current mining system encourages to it, as there's probably no other equally boring (and easily afkable) activity in eve. if you want afk-mining fixed, you should ask it elsewhere. (and yes, i think something should be done about mining, to make it more interesting, and more attention-intensive. if done right, i might even become interested in mining some day.)i'm pretty sure that it's perfectly possible to train a trial-time toon that can suicidegank with great effectiveness against all but well-tanked targets like transport ships or hardened hulks. destroyers are really easy to get into, and you only need the very basic combat skills anyway. not to say that highly skilled wouldn't be more effective, but low-sp char can be effective enough. when it comes to multi-boxing, i'm pretty sure that not nearly every miner multiboxes, and i'm also quite sure that many suicidegankers use multiple accounts. there's no difference here. regarding 100% guarantees, you can be 100% sure that even if you fail, you haven't lost anything, except minimal amount of isk and easily-recoverable amount of sec status. while if you succeed, you can also be 100% sure to have nice loot and one more juicy killmail in your collection. pirates of all forms seem to value killmails above all else in eve.that's pretty much true, and that way it should be, also for suicidegankers. destroyer isn't expensive even without insurance, but it's effectiveness is limited. battlecruiser or battleship brings much more efficiency also in suicideganking, but due to the insurance system, the suicide ganker gets this efficiency increase for free.---as for the triviality of sec status loss... think it this way: how long time does it take to recover the lost sec status? and how long it takes to gather isk to replace a ganked hulk? or industrial-load of lost goods? or pod+implants lost for lulz-ganking smartbomber? i think the first is in order of hours and certainely no more than a day of ratting in 0.0, if you know what you're doing. i don't think you can get more than few dozen millions per day by just mining in high sec. even few dozen millions imply highly skilled miner pilot with top-level equipment, which most won't have since you just blew it up. sure, the miner can also go missioning or ratting to 0.0, but combat is not his profession unlike yours, so he's probably not skilled in it. also, the lulz-gankers are probably blinky pirates anyway, so sec status loss is meaningless to them, and only way to penalize them is to force them to pay for their lost ships while currently they're offered free ships."
"invalid. because; i don't think it's the ship as such you're after (but i might be wrong), but mostly because of no because the game mechanics are unbalanced strongly in favour of the ganker.your argument is based on the false notion that the hulk is only marginally better than the covetor. it simply isn't true. which is completely beside the point and has nothing whatsoever to do with the proposal at hand. it is - as you are so eager to point out - your choice of using t2 guns and ammo, rather than the marginally less effective t1 the key point is that the game mechanics in suicide ganking in high sec is strongly biased towards the ganker rather than the ganked. you enjoy all benefits, the ganked faces all the consequences. as someone pointed out, the security hit is easily fixed (feck, i've gained +1 in sec just by clearing belts in 0.0, a total of maybe 20 minutes at most). mining (or come to think of it, living) in 0.0 is a constant risk of being shot to itsy bitsy, either by reds or by rats. it's a risk i'm prepared to take. carebears are not prepared to take the same risk, else they wouldn't be mining crap ore in a silly place"
"not to mention you make millions in chaining bs spawns. at the wee risk of getting ganked..."
"1. only hulkageddon is broadcasted in advance. if u can't do something as simple as heeding the warning, it's your own fault.2. as i told u already, the isk/lulz completely hinges on targets that aren't stationary, reliable, inanimate objects that generate a consistent, steady amount of isk. it hinges on other ppl, who have a brain (although not all of them use it). it's those certain victims that just don't learn from their mistakes that makes it look \"free\". if u have a problem with stupidity being punished, go to world of warcraft.1. no--what i already said was increasing effectiveness comes with more risks. try and put things in perspective for a minute. would u faction fit a ship or even go t3, even in the relative safety of your blob? would u risk a faction battleship or t3 in a lvl 4, hell, lvl 5? ppl do it 'cause they don't mind the risk for that extra effectiveness. it's the same exact concept.2. u misread because i never said afk-mining should be fixed. in fact, suicide ganking balances afk-mining. and furthermore, it's the only thing balancing afk-mining. u wanna keep badgering about risk vs reward, fine. advantages: 1. tons of free time 2. steady, consistent isk every few minutes 3. little/no environmental hazards 4. impossible to screw updisadvantages: it's obviously boring (but that's cancelled by the tons of free time, leaving 2, 3, and 4), and loss from suicide gankers (and that's only if u're flying a t2)so if u were to describe mining using the words \"risk vs reward\"...well there's no other risk to it. just rewards. all u're doing is asking ccp to weaken one profession (suicide ganking) for the sole reason to eliminate another profession's only true risk/disadvantage (which u stated u don't even have an interest in), making it all reward, no risk.and if u want to do make isk in a less boring way, do missions instead of standardizing every profession into one single uniform game mechanic."
"1. what's wrong with anyone shooting down a paper-thin hauler containing a fortune, whose pilot chose to fly a paper-thin hauler to protect that fortune?2. low sp must be offset by more ppl, which takes coordination and teamwork.3. there's a big difference between creating alts with several accounts to sink more isk and time to train them as opposed to simultaneously running several accounts at the same time to just generate income.while if u succeed, u can also be 100% sure to have nice loot--wrong. i already told u that a 3rd party could be lying in wait to steal it from u and it's not practical to attack them in advance either.nevertheless, there's still limits to their capabilities, which leads to forminng a large fleet, which again, requires a lot of coordination and teamwork. help to this degree is far from free.think of it this way:1. how hard is it to switch to a covetor and eliminate any possible losses almost entirely for a slight drop in afk income?2. how hard is it to realize that instead of having to replace that hulk, u could've done #1?3. how hard is it to use a cloaking transport ship?4. how hard is it to not autopilot when u're carrying those implants?5. u act like a few dozen million daily from an afk-profession is so little, considering u can actually afk doing it with no other risks.6. so far, u've done nothing but ponder what happens when a miner, hauler, or anyone is too lazy/stupid/careless/oblivious to even try to protect his assets."
"so u're saying i'd attack someone in high sec just because...so what u want to happen is whoever aggresses anywhere, even 0.0, should lose the possibility of insurance upon loss?care to elaborate on that? 'cause apparently, u and i have different definitions on \"marginally\". yet ppl want to bring up the mechanics of alt training, thinking they know everything there is know about it. and yes, it's one's choice to use t2 guns and ammo, just like hulk vs covetor. everyone has to make these decisions and deal with the risks that come with it. the key point is u're looking at this the wrong way. it's also due to game mechanics that he has to decide whether or not to gank in the first place. if u're not worth ganking, u won't be ganked. that simple rule will steer u clear of any consequences u would've faced otherwise. and of course, u exaggerate sec gains the same way u exaggerate the marginal difference in the ore rate between a hulk and covetor. only that crap ore is worth more isk per volume than pretty much any low sec ore available and probably 0.0 as well. all reward, no risk. we're merely instilling that risk."
"thumbs down! mechanics are working as intended. you want to be completely safe go play a pve game on a multiserver cluster this one is pvp.this kind of thread has come up lots with very little support for years and nothing has really happened on it at all.ill make sure to suicide one hulk for every post in this thread supporting it just for lolz."
"how in [fav diety]s name did you read that into it?we were, i think disucssing suicide ganking in high sec?no really, read haladas mining guide. i haven't as far as i am aware. it's still beside the point. fixed that.i've not said don't gank. ever. my alt would shoot me for it. =) i couldn't find all the itsy bitsy to put the victims together again anyway so what the f...you basically want to keep your full re-imbursment in insurance. cool. i think it's unbalanced. nothing prevents you from suiciding you carebears even if you won't get insurance for your ship. you'll just have to experience how fun it is losing a ship without getting any where close to the cost of a new ship. not really no. haven't got the figures at work so can't check."
"there is an easy, in game fix that has already been implemented.miners: pay attention to local; put on a dcii & shield extenders. it wont save you from a half dozen thoraxes, but it will save you from three.... or you can join a corp that mines in nullsec/wh and have some protection.the jita ganked:don't carry so much crap in t1 haulers. pretty much any t1 hauler can be one shotted by a properly skilled tempest. if you max out shield extenders, hardeners, and a dcii, it may take two tempests.if you're carrying upwards of 300 mil in your t1 hauler, you're a target. max out your shields so it wont be worth it for two people to shoot you.anywhere near 500mil and you should be in a transport with extenders and resists. i've seen a transport take 3 tempests and a mega and fly away in structure. yes, 5 tempests will gank any fit you have, so make sure whatever you're carrying isnt worth it for five people to lose sec and their bs.after that you get in a freighter.its about not playing stupid - not whining to the dev's to allow for stupid play.if you have a 2bil item that's 5m3, why do you load it into your cargo-maxed iteron v? put it in a t1 frig. no one scans those - and even if they do, you can align faster than they can lock and shoot.if whatever you're carrying is valuable, maybe you should get a better ship to carry it - or at least remove the cargo space you're not using and put a frigging tank on. i know i've chosen not to shoot targets because they've got too much tank.in conclusion, i wish i could contract your tears; they're more valuable than anything else in eve."
"because high sec is simply only one area of the game. the basis for your argument lie in treating high sec as a special place completely separated from the rest of eve that it's supposed to be some type of sanctuary. guess what--it's not or else, like i said before, shooting other players wouldn't be allowed at all. that's why the mechanics favoring the attacker isn't something exclusive to high sec either. it applies to all of eve.if u're gonna continue to nitpick, ***** and moan about afk income in the first place, u might want to try a profession that doesn't allow u to afk as much... just to put things in perspective.it's not beside the point if i'm addressing someone else's argument. it is beside the point when as i'm doing so, u think i was talking to u when i obviously wasn't.u forgot the second part of that... then again, that part's fine the way it is anyway.u don't have to directly say it. no one else did. what u and the others did was put yourself in a situation where u don't do anything about it... well of course it's gonna happen. and it'll continue because u refuse to use the tools and mechanics that r already set. yes because like i said before, high sec is only one facet of eve, not a completely separate area that serves as a sanctuary. that's why insurance is re-imbursed no matter the location. it's an intended mechanic. and the fun of losing that much... guess what? u've just experienced what many combat pilots went through when they took the risk of using a t2 ship. u're not exempt from this 'cause it's still eve, especially considering the nature of your profession.\"not really no\" but u can't back that up? here's an idea: go to the forge region and compare the isk per volume on all the existing minerals. notice a certain \"crap ore\" on top of that list?"
"ok, i'll stop here. you are taking it against me as a personally so it won't be interesting to feed the troll.*i* never complained about being ganked. all times but one chal0ner has been ganked it was due to my own stupidity more or less. *i* have ganked other players in low sec (not as this character, but as my -2 something alt). i don't grief carebears, it's boring...i've lived the last several months in wh/0.0-space so it becomes pretty pathetic when you argue against me as against high sec living carebears, which only shows how much you care about what other people argue.*i've* never, ever afk mined anything. i don't condone, and if hulkageddon clears the macro miners from the game i won't shed tears. you still don't get the point people are making, and you probably never will see the illogical mechanism in killing the gankers ships in high sec and then pay them back in full through insurance. and yes, high sec is a bit special as that will not happen in low sec (unless you are badly tanked near gate guns and such) and definately not in 0.0. if the whole point of eve was too grief miners anywhere, there wouldn't be any point in having concord methinks.i still think suicide ganking in high sec shouldn't be fully re-imbursed. nothing you've actually said in this argument has convinced me the game mechanism is fair towards carebears."
"1. no--i'm just merely clarifying that what u're really doing is asking to being pampered in safety, despite your profession (being automated as it is) not having any natural drawbacks, especially in a game where pvp is a major facet. furthermore, the only measure u have to take to afk in safety and still reap in the isk is a slight downgrade to eliminate any possible losses. i'm not attacking u by making valid points; u just refuse to listen.2. so u've never complained about being ganked... u're only doing the carebear's complaining for them?3. it doesn't matter if u've never afk mined anything--the fact is, it can be done, it has been done, it's being done, and it probably will continue.4. wow... u can't be serious... u're complaining of something that can't happen in low sec/0.0 simply because a lot worse things can happen in there, like oh... getting blown up no matter what? and u're calling me a troll?5. u're not \"convinced\"? more like u just want high sec to be special because u want everything to be handed to u on a silver platter--maximum ore rate, complete safety, and to top it all off, afk time. u don't grief carebears because u r one in disguise, just like the others. if u want everything, u'll end up with nothing."
"oh yeah"
"fully support this"
"supported."
"i aggree all the way!!! supported"
"fully supported! i'd also like to see something done to those who use nuet orcas to avoid losses. if a hostile docks in a nuet orca, the orca should gain aggression."
"not necessarily the ops particular solution, but a look-into hybrids."
"rails need love too :("
"ok, just to get the ball rolling, all ships are using two of the biggest small guns (t2) for simplicity (two damage mods fitted are shown in brackets):merlinantimatter: 14+7.5km - 41dps 125 volley (60dps, 150 volley)lead: 27km - 27dps 83 volley (40dps, 100 volley)iron: 43km - 17dps 52 volley (25dps, 62 volley)javelin: 6.8km - 68dps 146 volley (70dps, 175 volley)spike: 49km - 27dps 83 volley (40dps, 100 volley)incursusantimatter: 9+11km - 51dps 157 volley (75dps, 187 volley)lead: 18km - 34dps 104 volley (50dps, 125 volley)iron: 29km - 21dps 65 volley (31dps, 78 volley)javelin: 4.5km - 60dps 183 volley (88dps, 218 volley)spike: 32km - 34dps 104 volley (50dps, 125 volley)executionermultifrequency: 7.5+5km - 59dps 171 volley (87dps 204 volley)standard: 15km - 40dps 114 volley (58dps 136 volley)radio: 24km - 25dps 71 volley (36dps 85 volley)gleam: 3.8km - 69dps 199 volley (102dps 238 volley)aurora: 27km - 40dps 114 volley (58dps 136 volley)rifteremp: 7.5+11km - 47dps 365 volley (69dps 436 volley)titanium: 15km - 32dps 243 volley (46dps 291 volley)nuclear: 24km - 20dps 152 volley (29dps 182 volley)quake: 3.8km - 55dps 425 volley (81dps 508 volley)tremor: 27km - 32dps 243 volley (46dps 291 volley)i'm no expert, but i'd say the little bit of extra range the incursus gets is not enough to keep it out of scram range, unless youi sacrifice a lot of damage. if you wanna shoot bb bullets, you can just about stay out of neut range, but only just."
"bump"
"excellent ideas!"
"supported.i would love to see a few right-click distance options on the buttons that we can set ourselves."
"totally do it. more shortcuts overall would be nice, come to think of it."
"yes"
"meh...meh...this i like except here is the deal. tie security status, faction status, and new skills to getting scanned for illegal goods at the gate and station(as long as it's not a pirate faction station). then make it so pirate faction implant, ammo, module, etc. rewards require the purchaser to have favorable standing with that faction, lp, and a tier 1 version of the item in question. great now you as a pirate have taken a occular standard and changed it into a crystal delta(?) but your sec status and faction standing is so low you can't get through the gate. now you need high sec pukes with high standing to haul it to high sec if they want there goodies to pew pew missions. once implanted it's undetectable but until then you are barred from docking at any non-pirate stations or using gates. you want to see people start killing each other for isk make them guard a hauler full of hacked imps.nopesee 3.mehnot no but hell no this is just asking to kill empire dwellers and not even armed ones."
"100% support. sound has been ultra nerfed for way to long. ccp seem to have relegated this to the scrapheap. lag fighting is no1 but sound should be close behind."
"this really could summarize my whole line of thought really. i have a wonderful sound system that worked better with eve before dominion than after it-and just being able to hear a gun every time it goes off is something that should come standard with any pew pew internet spaceships game."
"supported.. came back to eve after a year or so away and really dissapointed to find the sound doesn't work correctly! its quite a big thing guys.."
"i cannot agree with that, leave that as it is, i can disable sound myself where i see fit. i still want to have alarms, but maybe i want to disable music and world. wow, that's hardcore, i am not near quitting because of that. but it is annoying. it is very annoying though, i mean srsly, maybe next time login button woun't be working? you can't let these kind of things happen. this is one of the basic functions that must always work. and if it does not, it needs fixing asap."
"have this same issue, all weapon damage is invariably missing most of the times, particularly during busy scenes. and i am not alone in this, i know of two other friends of mine with the same issue and none of us have what you would call sub-standard rigs we're running on."
"confirming sound has been screwy since apocrypha. sounds is one of the most important features of a game ccp. try to get it right, plz!"
"not sure what you mean.the point here is that on some occasions the second client just does not make any sound at all. when it does work, you can still mute or disable it as you see fit ...however, personally i have only experienced this on few occasions, mostly when trying to disabling and re-enabling sound, then all of a sudden i can't hear sounds from one of the clients. or when i am switching between clients, quitting and restarting them, then sometimes it get's messed up.either way, it is a bug, but for me personally a minor one, because i don't experience this often, however some players experience this more often."
"supported, i hear my artillery and autocannons only after they cycle like 5 times, and the only real sound that does work and that is extremely annoying are amarr chanting in stations and sonic boom from warping. i it really sucks that after the jukebox goes through some certain number of somgs it just stops and i am forced to play every song afterwards manually."
"supported so effin hard."
"signed"
"signed"
"agree"
"not supported."
"not supported!this proposal is just as carebear as proposing loot rights on salvage. ninja salvaging has it's place, just as rogue looters have their place, just be faster or kill them ...if you are talking about highsec, then tough luck, it is highsec, you can't shoot rogue looters just as you can't shoot ninja salvagerswhen stealing loot you get flagged to the owner of the wreck, he can shoot you, and that is how it should be.go to lowsec, 0.0 or wormhole space if you want to shoot rogue looters, just as missioners have to go to lowsec to avoid or shoot ninja salvagers.what's up with all these carebear pvp'ers in eve these days, it seems they want everything for free, like insurance on suicide ganks, and can't handle someone stealing their stuff ..."
"this idea is truly hilarious, everything the carebear ninja salvage moaners said about the hypocrisy of pvpers is true. what a load of total ****, i hope all you who supported this idea diaf (in game).honestly quite pathetic hypocrisy. is this actually a very good troll ?"
"try pvping somewhere other than hisec then"
"i fully support this motion, a much more convenient way is need to move my prostitutes around to increase market coverage and profits."
"totaly supported, my nightmare needs dead hookers!!! and make them illegal so i hve t keep the cops from spotting the dead hookers in my cargo hold."
"yes please."
"supported. this is not hello kitty island adventure.perhaps there could be a client-side profanity filter for people who don't care to see dirty words?"
"if you give t3 the option to use covert ops cloak and a cov cyno, that pretty much makes bobs even more worthless."
"makes sense.also, another filter: blueprint original, and blueprint copy.also the ability to sort blueprints by type groups (charges, ships, projectile weapons, ect)."
"agreed on the filter, but that last one is actually possible as-is. in the contract search page, pick type blueprint, and then a big subtype menu becomes available right beside it. it's too specific, if anything - options like \"cruiser blueprint\", instead of \"ship blueprint\"."
"dooo eeeeeeeet!"
"yes, wth is going on on the mining front ccp? as in: can we expect anything in let's say the next 2 expansions?"
"it takes up too much space, and in one slot you can probably fit three people in if it was text only. local becomes easier to read and you can see more people."
"supporting with addition of:clicked on character would show avatar for as long as it remains selected."
"we already have a working solution to this problem, it's called delay loaded chat channels.people should appear in local only when they say something. since most people don't talk, they wouldn't appear in the channel list. so the list would be kept small and you could clearly see who you are chatting with."
"]is there going to be another? keep the players upto date"
"i don't see the fun or benefit in making islands no one will really want to travel out and from to, once i'm out there i doubt i'll be leaving regularly. i'm sure many traders/corp/alliances that have power between those islands could do well in transporting things or more likely killing people trying to move around. beyond the people who go out to 00 on their own to mine/rat/plex whatever those islands will be largely vacant and perfect feeding grounds to stalk if enough people go out there to exploit the local 00 systems assuming they can-not owned etc.it would be an interesting idea to turn a few dozen worthless 00 systems into highsec systems but i don't see the rationale for these systems out there all by themselves. why would factions do this, why would they reach out so far to make one or a few systesm highsec and then more lowsec or is it just 00-highsec?"
"not supported as it doesn't seem entity consistent with what high sec actually is, though i would mention have you ever heard of the solitude region? it just about exactly what your suggesting, there's only two ways in one of through 0.0 the other at least 12 jumps of lowsec."
"i'd prefer to see .3-.6 sec systems on border zones fluctuate and change daily, even more than daily if possible. allow temporary highsec trade routes that open up, but as a result might drop and become hostile territory to an unlucky trader or miner. known \"good\" routes may end up closed off due to pirate incursions or even corp/alliance wars.i'd like to see lowsec pirate agent missions near these zones that with increased activity (i.e. people running the missions) affect the sec status of the constellation."
"this seems workable and fits within the lore as far as i'm aware."
"i have discussed a negative security space for pirates that functions exactly like high security space does for everyone else. granted there would not be concord intervention but there would be pirate faction intervention. it wouldn't be anywhere near as safe as high sec but it would give pirates semi-secure bases of operations that discourages them from fighting each other in that area."
"yes."
"the sonar... fitted in hi slots... it allow to catch cloaked ships with the direction scanner...... you active it....scan.... ( we have 4 bombers and 2 recons at 47 km)."
"troll 0/10epic faillearn to use google.t.t/me thumbs down"
"you shall not introduce modules that make complete ship classes useless.thank you"
"and not to point the astronomer finger of doom at you but...how exactly does sonar work in a vacuum anyway?"
"omg now i understand the grade of your minds....... ok i'll answer your question only if you answer this.... how exactly does a jump gate works?? why ships have only rear trusters and there's no inertia in eve??? why can i reach a top speed in space??? c'on its a game.... idiots"
"love you too."
"wikipediasonar requires acoustics... that means sound.... there is no sound in space as it requires air... the sounds you hear are artificially produced in your pod as evidenced by eve chronicles and back-story... if you even know how to read!now hurry off to school... your kindergarten teacher is waiting for you.. don't want to miss snack time and the cookies now!"
"while i'm still thumbing down the sonar idea for gameplay reasons, in an universe where ships fly in some kind of dense molasses (and it cant be empty space, something that make friction is needed to have fixed max speeds other than c) it could actually work..."
"what a dumbass people we have tell me why there are engine sounds and turrets fires.c'on be serious this game far from reality as your brain from intelligence... you are pointing a useless detail used in eve!... there's no sound propusion in space but turrets can brake your ears and engine have sounds too... blame the fiction game not me! idiot! and ill tell you that... if i can ear turrets from 100km i can scan with a sonar!! shut up you monkey brain confusing reality with fiction!"
"wow, this thread went downhill quick.btw, idea not supported. cloaking is fine as it is."
"omg finally someone who can use the thing over the neck!!!!!!!!!!or gimme unlimited trust speed or sonar will work!! and acceration factor is pointless too a bs should reach the \"top\" speed as fast a frigate! and the worst thig i don't see minmatar ships roteate like a banana in a wirphool when fire with 100000mm cannons!!!!! minmatar cannons should lower the ship speed!!!!!! change the route of the ship! hahaha think about missiles explosions!! the blast should move the hit ship at 50000 m|s!!!! using explosions as primary truster!!!!"
"no.just no."
"a module would just gimp the minni recons even more, no matter if low mid or high slot.target painting is already semi usefull.something i could see being at least partially balanced is a signature radius and speed reduction relation. the higher your signature radius is, the stronger is the effect of the speed reduction (if you want to have an \"in game pseudo science explanation\", the speed reduction is higher because the webber has a higher signature radius to grab).a speed reduction - signature radius relation would allow webbing small ships with mwds stronger than ships without mwd, strengthening the usage of abs more again.if this should be on top of the scripted webs, needs some number crunching, but in general both ideas have merrits, without totally overpowering the current underpowered web."
"the problem with webs that got more range is that you will always have to use the script with the largest range and the lowest strength, it gives gangs the advantage to totally immobilize you and the problem with close range is not solved.making it based on sig is even worse since it gives smaller ships the complete range control over larger ones and also giving the ships with the bigger guns a drawback on top of it by reducing the befit of fitting a web at all.also it would be the biggest nerf to blaster pvp since qr, since you have the ships with the largest sigs in many classes(hac, bc), with the guns that got the smallest range and that will never make it into range since it can be kitted by almost anything."
"before you go crazy, please actually look at the stats/discussion herethe idea behind this ship is to provide some unique and versatile features for aspiring industrialists. no configuration is meant to outshine its t2 counterpart. please see the thread linked above for more details and discussion.i've waited to post this for a bit to see what sort of support i could get in f/i and to flesh out some details.okay. flame resistant suit on. go for it."
"i'm not sure i can support this... good ship...but no ones going to approve a cruiser with a ship maint. array.ship arrays are reserved for capitals and only capitals.i'll think about the rest later.personally a gas mining strip miner would be better for the sake of gas mining."
"can a new t3 hulk be added to eve that has 4 strip miner slots with better tanking and 4 low slots. this would be a great way to help out the miners in low sec."
"did you seriously just ask for a solopwn mobile (for mining)?"
"way i see it, if it brings more people into low-sec, it could be a good thing..."
"solopwn mobiles are fine, as long as they require constant interaction.for instance, 2 second cycles with 50m3 cargo bay.still, macros :("
"that hulk would just make mineral prices even lower. more minerals would come = lower price."
"such a limited view on supply and demand... lets get this straight minerals are a building item not a sells item. the reason for the current low mineral prices is an imbalance in the market aka to much of one type of mineral not enough of another. more minerals in fact means more ships, more ships means more pew pew, more pew pew means more ships needed, which means more minerals needed.i would like some more details, i suggested a t3 miner on par with the hulk a while back, search for the t3 utility ship thread."
"these things would never leave the safety of high sec. also, iirc, ccp mentioned some where that the hulk isn't going to be replaced any time soon."
"i would like the ability in nullsec, and ideally low sec, to be able to disable a stargate, hence allowing you to siege a system.it seems a shame to me that stargates (and the sentries that protect them in low sec) cannot be disabled.my proposal is to give stargates a nice big shield buffer and allow people to be able to depleat it by shooting them. once shields go below 25% the gate is disabled. the shields would naturally replenish so to keep the gate disabled you must continue to shoot it. i would suggest the sentries would be seperatly powered and hence you would need to disable them independently but work in the same way.as with any shields the gate could be repaired using shield transporters and this would work from either side of the gate. therefore enabling anyone wanting to get through the gate to accellerate the natural shield regen process, and meaning anyone really wanting to keep the gate shut may have to do so from both sides. this of course means that trying to keep a high sec to low sec gate disabled is even more challenging as folk can sit in high sec repairing the shileds where pirates would be fairly unwise to follow.shooting a stargate would of course be a criminal activity and as such would incurr the wrath of concode in high sec making the disabling of gates a very expensive debacle.seems to me that most of the functionality needed to make this feasible is already in place."
"in theory it sounds like a great idea. however you need to look at it from all points of view.i own a system, and it's being invaded. i throw up a cynojammer and then close off my own stargates, and keep shutting it down even as the other side reps it. so now no cap fleet and no conventional fleet can come in, save for covops. i'm pretty much invulnerable."
"the idea is very cool. essentially barricading a system or gate.the 2nd post makes an important point though, how would one stop a permanent blockade with the number of alts these days?you could just set up a few alt moros, droning the gates for an easy brick wall.maybe if the damage needed to keep the blockade running increased over time such that eventually no force could keep the warp space rift locked down! (queue dramatic percussion)"
"no way. this would just be another mechanic that makes blobs necessary and nerfs guerilla warfare."
"the abuse potential is too big.i lock down my dead end pocket and any smaller roaming gang is locked out and i can carebear much safer than in highsec. this seems to be so wrong, given the benefits you can get out of 0.0/lowsec systems.if there would be an option for thumbs down i would use that."
"imo i like the idea of being able to disable the guns in lowsec. the part about disabling the stargate would be to easy to abuse. an alliance or large corp could disable the gate and basically be unattackable. that said, the pirate in me that loves black ops would find it absolutely hilarious to covops cyno into a system or region like that and kill all the carebears who thought they were safe"
"they should be doing this already, if they aren't then they don't care about user reports on suspected or obvious bots which from what i can tell is how it is.a gm's convo request shouldn't be effected by your settings on block/ignore all if you don't respond to them at some point i'd expect ccp to make a note of it and attempt it again as well as looking into the account's activity to see if it is a 23/7 miner or other activity that shows the account is being used by more than one person (breach of eula) or is a macro program (breach of eula). i can't support asking ccp to do something they should be doing if they aren't all brain dead."
"you're all missing one important point.it alerts the user that they are being tracked.when tracking and observing a user you want to do it passively in a manner that isn't detectable to the user.you don't want to have a whole botnet modify it's process just because you alerted one of the bots.ccp understand this. do you think unholy rage would have been a success if they messaged each bot telling them they were under investigation?"
"another excellent point. if a bot is identified monitor it to find other bots and do a drag net just like they did with unholy rage."
"what about afk mission running which requires absolutely no botting, and is done completely within game mechanics?"
"maybe in a few missions but in almost all there is no such thing as afk mission running because spawn aggro will kill your drones, you don't afk through jump gates, and there is no auto target and fire feature that is an in game mechanic. if you are only using drones, even with a dom, you are still taking forever to finish the mission where an actively participating pilot will get through that same mission in half the time.afk mission running is a drop in the ocean at best."
"miss post."
"...and there is a damn good reason for that.replace your voice recognition program with a macro program and it will be suddenly obvious why this is not possible."
"\"computer: delete boot.ini and reboot\"other then a gimmick voice control is pretty much useless everywhere i saw it, why bother with it in eve?"
"salvage can not be stolen unless taken from your cargohold, which other players have no access to anyhow./not supported"
"at the risk of sounding like ccp; ganking is working as intended1. non-freighter ganks (and this post) are almost always for lols and tears2. concord has nothing to do with the scc at all 3. sandbox, player to player interactions is a inherent and vitapart of such system.4. ganking isnt risk free 5. their is simple steps you can take to avoid it"
"see, here is the problem: even if that one hauler is hauling stuff worth only little, the inssurance will reimburse any ganking bs lost in the process and the loss of the gankers will be minimal.hell, people only gank just for giggles and don't lose much.again: insurrance payout is too high, regardless of what the victim is carrying in the cargohold.and once again. the inssurnace will cover the loss of ships. (imnsurrance fraud). ppl don't need to haul around 500 millione to make it worthwhile for 5 tempest to gank them.in conclusion: you did not understand the core problem. insurrance payout is too high for gankers, making it a valuable business even when ganking empty haulers."
"i think my torp raven needs a bigger alfa and i think those 2 ions do make a differenceo yea more target painters!"
"for haulers, they gank for isk. i know because i do it.with a slightly positive sec you get about four ganks before you have to go back and grind your sec. that part sucks, and i hate doing it. so no, you wouldn't waste a gank on something that wasn't going to pay off - anything under 200 mil is not a target to me. some guys will go for it, sure, but most wont. too big a risk that something will not drop, and 200mil isn't worth it.the ones you wait for are the 300mil+ untanked t1 haulers that undock. and there's plenty of those. fix the stupid problem first, and the rest will take care of itself.i'm trying to fix the stupid problem by learning these people a lesson, but theres just so much stupid in eve i don't think i'll ever be done."
"the issue i have with the suicide gankers is that the whole insurance setup is needing a make over with t3 ships costing millions and the subsys as well and if u go to insure it they insure it for 12mil how can a t3 cruiser be in the same insurance band as a normal cruiser that would be like saying a porsche is the same as a polo they need to insure the ships correctly or do away with it period as it is senceless spending even more isk at it to get less back and as for suicide gankers yes i agree self destruct or ships killed by the police shouldnt get insurance"
"1. u're not understanding that insurance applies because it's an intended game mechanic. i already said that high sec is not a completely separate entity that doubles as a sanctuary. it's just another part of the eve universe.2. and no one suicide ganks empty haulers. i've autopiloted empty haulers (or even with worthless cargo) on long trips simply because i had to get something done around the house and i've never been suicide ganked for it. so no, it's not valuable or smart to suicide a hauler that's not worth it. those decisions to hold back tells anyone with a brain that the sec status penalties do have an impact, despite what the carebears think."
"t2 and especially t3 r supposed to be better than t1. that's why they have little/no insurance for it to compensate--more power = more responsibility. here's the thing in eve: to be able to wield that much power comes with a risk, just like any t2 ship or faction mod, the risk of the lack of insurance if u lose it. this is not world of warcraft, where u're supposed to acquire all your epic gear for keeps--that's not how it works here. if u can't pilot/fit a t3 or even t2 well enough to not lose it, then u're either rich, u took a gamble and lost, and/or u're probably not rdy to fly one."
"this sounds logical, supported"
"as a primarily gal focused character i would dearly love hybrids (both rails and blasters) to end up on the receiving end of a little bit of ccp love. being less that a year old game wise i get the feeling that getting any of these propositions through the csm is going to be an up hill struggle, a fair percentage of the csm represent or have links to large 0.0 entities, logistically these entities are primarily focused on amarr hulls and weapons for the most part. changing 0.0 away from swarms of standard amarr fleet fit bs is not really in their interest logistically.but then again i'm a newbie to what the hell do i know."
"fleet battles do love rain rokhs and megas, just not as buch....but they do love them still."
"a lot of the data and arguments presented in this conversation (and a few others parallel that are ongoing at the moment) makes me think that as far as fleet bs issues of mega and rokh, the major culprit in this case in spike l.in general, the major issue for railguns is focused on the interaction of the weapons and ammo. i am trying to focus the issue to the damage modifier because it is the simplest solution. spike will need to be adjusted but the changes seem to be minimal. specifically for spike l/m/s, if the optimal bonus was reduced to 65 - 70%, while it's damage was increased by 15%(which can be achieved by increasing the gun damage modifier) it would balance out and make the rokh/ eagle/ deimos/ ferox/ brutix/ cormorant/ catalyst more usable for sniping while not making the mega and brutix op (they would be fighting in falloff, with a low tracking ammo), which is a concern expressed by many.this approach would also make the javelin l/m/s ammo feasible as an alternative to cn am. using current modifier: t2 125mm (javelin s) =24 base shield damage/ t2 125mm (cn am s) =22.63 base shield damage(current modifier)x 115%: t2 125mm (javelin s) =27.6 base shield damage/ t2 125mm (cn am s) =26.08 base shield damagewe can see that the difference between javelin and cn am will increase by 10% (1.52/1.37=110%) to demonstrate:now, nobody uses t2 short range because there is no significant difference:rokh, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/cn am) =553 @ 54+30 (0.01971)rokh, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/javelin) =561 @27+30(0.01478)mega, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/cn am) =605 @41+39 (0.02327)mega, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/javelin) =614 @21+39(0.01745)15% increase to the damage modifier would yield:rokh, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/cn am) =636 @ 54+30 (0.01971)rokh, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/javelin) =645 @27+30(0.01478)mega, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/cn am) =695 @41+39 (0.02327)mega, t2 425mm (3xmagstabs/javelin) =706 @21+39(0.01745)note: for those that will cry foul: apoc megabeam(3x heatsinks/in multi)= 641 @47+26 (0.02096)apoc megabeam(3x heatsinks/gleam)= 651 @24+26 (0.01572)even though the difference between javelin and cn am seems marginal, it allows rokh to get over 600 dps and in the case of the mega over 700 (which is perfectly acceptable if we also consider the tracking and optimal/falloff it has. it's a brawler by nature after all). furthermore, if the tracking of the javelin is amended (i haven't done any calculations on it), then usage of t2 short range ammo might become more attractive.therefore, i am refining my proposal to:+15% to all railguns' damage modifier-reduce spike optimal bonus to 70% instead of 80%+10% to pg output for all caldari railboats (so they are up to par with gallente ones as far as fitting requirements).suggestion for javelin: pending"
"supported."
"i don't support a change to spike simply because all t2 ammo should probably be looked at and addressing issues with spike should be done in the company of fixes to aurora as well. my own feeling on it is that the tracking penalty and high cap use in the long range t2 ammo at the cost of reducing the exceptional damage and range bonus that has largely ruined the advantage of using the right ammo at the right range for distances over 160km. as shown in the graphs of my previous posts there's no consistency in the damage curves as they near the end of range, all weapons systems pinning their hopes of being effective on the range of their t2 ammo even when that's impractical as is often the case of a rokh which simply out-ranges the lock limit.overall i think that a 75% range bonus and damage equal to the longest range high faction ammo +7.5% would provide a sufficient bonus over t1 ammo to still be considered useful without providing the huge disincentive to switching ammo types as targets move to different ranges. not only that but it would allow sniper ships to be more relevently balanced for who has the most damage at a specific range instead of simply worrying about their t2 damage as the only effective option. as an example with the 15% damage/rof boost to rail guns it would allow a rokh shooting dread guristas iridium to compete ( 6% less damage) with an abaddon's aurora & tachs with a little more range, bringing into reality the bonus for the rokh of being able to switch to more damaging ammo types at reduced range instead of the current setup which leaves the abbadon with a nearly 50% advantage in damage at that range.leave t2 ammo alone in a railguns fix as their problems are broader and won't be fixed effectively by a piecemeal approach of one weapons system at a time."
"1. switching ammo is by design, i don't think you should be able to bypass that constraint, however unwieldy it is.2. faction ammo should not be used to balance the weapon systems, it skews the picture. furthermore they are not player made, thus readily available, so they are an exception to the rule. if you noticed, i used faction ammo to compare their prevalent use over t2. when comparing hacs for example, i used t1 am.3. spike has 80% bonus to optimal, taking it down to 75% is not enough if you want to really balance the ships. a) to reach same range as the rest, mega needs to be gimped (2 magstabs+2 te) does subpar dps (19% less than apoc) and rokh does subpar dps also(16% less than apoc)b) if fit the same number of damage mods mega does less dps (7.5% less than apoc) and the rokh is still crap (16% less than apoc)although i am using mega and rokh, the ratios hold for the other railboats as well (especially hacs, although brutix is a bit op). i had to pick a number to append to my proposal and i obviously took the average, which is 15%. taking that into consideration, anything less than 15% is just as good as nothing, cause it really does not solve the issue. t2 is the only real option for mega/ tempest and apoc. the only ship using t1 that can reach 170km and do some damage (281 dps) with t1 ammo is the rokh. apoc does 232 at 172+33, tempest does 232 at 125+72 optimal, mega does 219 at 150+49. it's the rokh's only saving grace. how much for that dg iridium? i use cn am for close range, but only when we go toe to toe with enemy fleets. when shooting pos mods, why should i spend that kind of isk? t2 is cheap and plentiful, using faction ammo to get high eft numbers should not influence our view of the problem, such exceptions just validate the need for improvement.why not? if balance is to achieved, t2 ammo must be looked into, your approach just ignores a huge factor in the problem. widen your perspective, or you will lose the forest for the trees."
"not entirely sure what you're getting at here but it needed to be fixed either way, currently there's only 1 ammo type that matters beyond 160km and you could make arguments for that envelope being even smaller. switching ammo types should allow you to trade damage for range in a meaningful fashion as is clearly designed for with t1 ammo, t2 ammo, ranged ammo in particular, breaks that relationship.i wouldn't mind comparing t2 to t1 myself but in anticipation of people complaining that t2 ammo shouldn't be eclipsed by high faction ammo i opted for the least contrast comparison that allows people to determine that t2 ammo would retain it's advantages in relation to the next most competitive ammo type.i could be swayed on the range bonus reduction and opted for a 70% value initially but once again wanted to opt for a minimalist approach to change so as to avoid overbalancing and continually ocillating between two unbalanced points. my main point of contention is that all t2 ranged ammo needs to have it's damage taken down.except it isn't... i really wish it was though since it would be neat to max out the range on a rokh and use other ammo types to get close to, if not equal to, the damage amounts seen in other ships at that range. reducing the damage t2 ammo does, while unnerfing it to retain it's usefulness is the only way to give the rokh this much-toted advantage.once again on the use of dg ammo, it's to actually show the worst-case scenario for the ships after my suggested changes as balancing around t1 ammo would tend to leave faction ammo with serious advantages over or parity with t2 ammo which would invite a lot of complaints.i'm not saying t2 ammo shouldn't be looked into in fact i'm saying it should, but on a broader basis looking at balancing all weapons platforms instead of balancing rails around beams with broken t2 ammo. imho changing t2 ammo is outside of the scope of this proposal and deserves it's own thread for discussion... might have to do that tonight"
"the range problem could be fixed differently by applying more logic to how hits are registered. right now we have a system that doesn't make sense but is was easier to program. it probably reduces server load as well but it would fix long range ammo and weapons.for example, currently, if you have a ship that is stationary firing at another object that is stationary as long as you are inside optimal it doesn't make a bit of difference to your accuracy what range they are at. 100m is as good as 100km's as long as it's inside optimal. in reality the signature radius of a ship should be a base size at 0m which gets smaller from there depending on range. then to hit that target further away you would need more accurate guns. since the signature resolution on guns is by class and not by function the system is inherently broken before it even began.what should have been a system where range was irrelevant became a system where functional balance is impossible.as we all know in space these weapon systems would continue on until they struck something(for the most part). the trick to hitting a target isn't reaching it but tracking it and having a weapon that can accurately fire that distance. the system should be:[sig radius at 0m -(range x signature resolution)]x[(optimal tracking speed - transversal)x damage]= resultor something like that. the idea being you can always hit your target even if it's orbiting you at a ridiculous speed but your chances might be extremely low based on your signature resolution(which would be low for blasters, pulse lasers, and acs and high for rails, beams, and arty) and optimal tracking(which would be the opposite).but i digress...[edit: because it will never happen]still like the change tagami.[edit: forgot damage in the equasion]"
"could have shortened that post to 'dont like any of it except teh balck market' would have been easier lol.anyway, keep it rolling guys, agree, disagree, whatever, but get the ideas in...we need lowsec attention!"
"supporting lowsec love in general, though i'm not so sure about the specifics.i...- like the black marked idea.- like the criminal faction idea. imo npc rats should not shoot at players if the player has a high standing with the faction.- like the smarter rats idea. imo all lowsec pve should require pvp-fits. better fights all around. :)imo:- lowsec stations should be more differentiated: don't allow docking on hostile stations (depending on faction standing.) add pirate stations that will not allow law-abiding citizens to dock. :) possibly allow docking on hostile stations in exchange for a hefty fee.- lowsec security status should depend on the actual (player-activity based) security or insecurity of the system, so 0.1 vs 0.4 would convey meaningful information. make it depend on number of illegal aggressions per day, for example.- role of local and alternative (new) intel tools should be considered. lowsec can be improved without doing that, but i suspect intel changes could have a positive impact on lowsec.- there could be some flex in the security status assigment: some system should be able to flip from highsec to lowsec and vice versa depending on player activities. anarchy could spread, or order could creep further. mechanics are tricky, though -- neither 0.0 sov nor fw stuff seems right for the job.- fixing bounties would boost lowsec.- ransom mechanic would boost lowsec. (eg. pay ransom into escrow, from where it is released after you jump, dock, or log off for longer than 15 minutes -- if you are destroyed before that you get the ransom back.)"
"i like the general \"gist\" of this (tee-hee)."
"to add, in 0.0 pirate faction sov space, the rats should be the empires.and second the notion on border zones fluctuating from just barely hisec to lowsec, i.e. .4-.5.... it would make trade more dynamic and also give flashy people something to do other than camp amamake, rancer, heir, or tama.you could also have more of those nice pirate arc missions, have missions include incursions that disrupt a system's security status."
"living in lowsec i fully agree to the op with his ideas. will write some other stuff later..(don't have time now).i'll also add this thread to my signature!"
"i agree with qp. this is a huge issue, i of cause think there should be a limitation on where you can refit the tech3 ship. so the suggestion of haveing a \"tech 3 modular refitting pos module\" is the best! ccp - allowing people in wspace to change sub systems has nothing to do with \"preventing colonization\". since we already have conolized wspace. not being able to change sub systems only means have have to bring extra ships. it makes the tech3 ship fill its role better, a ship that can be changed for its need."
"this has my support. i don't have quite as many sound volume variations so much as the sound is just buggy. sound over writing other sounds and others not playing at all. there have been many times where i have been in a mission and have had no sound from any of the weapons. ccp should focus on re-doing sound for the next patch, since it is very important."
"supported"
"sound is not good now. it may be good, to improove sound in eve."
"supported!"
"supported!"
"--alliance wallet / tax--the functionality of alliance management is currently a tedious chore for most, in which those that run them spend most of their time establishing logistics and gathering money from their corporation counterparts.a designated corp"
"while i agree... i don't like the prospect of alliance taxation being a percentage... potentially 100%.just a comment at best."
"yeah, this makes sense. alliances need some more structure than they have at present. an alliance wallet - preferably with a few dozen divisions, instead of 7 - would be a nice addition. then don't join such an alliance. it doesn't seem any worse to me than the idea of a 100% corp tax."
"supported as long as concord blows up your ship if you fly with a dead hooker through hisec"
"supporting"
"supported. also, please add polar ice caps to the relevant planets."
"i think that two sets of armor implants and two sets of shield implants would also be a step in the right direction. one set for hp, one set for rep amount.the other issue with active tanks especially on the gallente end is the lack of low slots to take advantage of the rep bonus coupled with dmg mods. brutix and to a lesser degree the astarte need to have their slot layouts and pg amounts reworked. i think both these ships should get either another highslot + grid for gang mod or another low slot so they can actually take advantage of the slot heavy active tank they are bonused for...the other solution could be to decrease the pg needed to fit these active reppers. this would go along way in allowing active armor tankers to not completely gimp their load out if they fit the 2 reps these ships are so clearly designed to fit."
"ok, few people here recognize my way of reasoning, even tho it is logically sound and no one presented counter arguments.okay, so you boost the active tank bonus on a few ships that have it. those ships may get a slight advantage that may, just may, be able to make them competitive against passive/buffer tanks. but what about all the other ships? for them active tanking will still be the weaker option.i hope ccp, unlike casual players, put more serious thought into analysis of the situation. they could do some serious number crunching. first, collect a few dozen samples from killboards, filter out all pve and \"noob\" fits, categorize samples by ship type, split shield tankers from armor tankers. then calculate total effective hp for all ships. in case of active tanks, calculate effective hp based on battle duration for several intervals: 1,2,3..10 minutesfor each of the 10 battle duration categories, calculate raw dps necessary to kill the ship.make a bar graph of the \"breaking point dps\" for each battle duration comparing passive/buffer tank and active tank.calculate probabilities of active tank working for each of the 10 battle durations, assuming that every active tank ship fits cap injector, but has limited supply of charges.calculate probabilities of energy neutralizer to be used by enemy based on the dps. such as: for every 500 dps, an average of 1 medium energy neutralizer is used.calculate adjusted effective hp of active tank ships under conditions of limited cap and average use of energy neutralizers for each of 10 battle duration categories. compare findings with previous data.calculate average number of ships required to produce breaking point dps for each battle duration.calculate statistical distribution of ships in engagement, group different intervals of distribution curve and calculate success or failure of active and passive/buffer tanks for each 10 battle duration categories.calculate statistical distribution of battle durations. use it to create weights for each of the 10 battle duration categories and most probable effective tanking method between active and passive/bufferrepeat same calculation for every ship type.repeat calculations separately for armor and shield tanked ships.repeat calculations with modified starting conditions - such as increased/decrease tanks from sample data, increased/decreased energy neutralizer usage..keep updating sample data.you get the idea.there's literally months of work for serious game designer. work that is necessary to make educated decisions on important game balance decisions. the arguments people use on this forum are little more than hints at the truth and the signal to noise ratio is low."
"splendid idea"
"good idea."
"would be nice to have indeed. i am suspecting the filters need a little revamp in this case, but it's needed."
"there's already methods in place to do just this. the first is delayed local which you were told about in the previous post. the second way is another button at the top left hand corner that says \"show text only\""
"nuff said."
"clicking \"show text only\" won't remove portraits from the channel member list though, and that is what the op is on about if i'm right."
"do we really want local to give up to three times as much intelligence as it already is?"
"well... yes!"
"next thing to ask for is for local to be sortable by standings/alli/corp/etc. and why not? it's only logical, since we see everyone and their standings anyway. not supported.local should be delayed, everywhere ideally, but in 0.0 at the very least. with delayed local there should be options for your name/avatar to be always shown to no-one/everyone/standings-based/alli/corp."
"really no. not at all.wish there was a thumbs down option here..."
"it'd give the same amount of intel with three times less player annoyance. since i am vehemently opposed to using player annoyance as a tool for game balance, i support this(assuming it's an option and not forced, of course)."
"/support"
"i never really thought about this but still good idea. hopefully an idea this small will be easy enough to do with out breaking the game too much."
"supported"
"wondering a bit why this wasn't put in right away with the other ewar icons, but hey... all fine if it will be added as well, eventually. :]"
"supported even if its a x12+ skill and 30min a level"
"just out question:why was the original time not set to 23 hours? or 20? or something less than a full day? i know ccp doesn't think things through 100% (i cringe to read things on them being shocked that people would gate camp after jump gates were first introduced) but, honestly?guys, this is a no brainer. you have 24 hours in a day. people log in during the same periods of time in a day. having a restriction that keeps them from playing the same way, everyday, at the same time is not just game-dumb, it's business-dumb as well.and people wonder why ccp only has approx 250k (there's a lot of duplicate accounts) players instead of 500k already -- most people like to log on and off and do what they want during that time frame. not play \"wait to have fun\".while a skill to reduce this time is up for debate, the very fact it is 24 hours and not 23 shows a serious lack of foresight and looks outright embarrassing upon the dev team -- especially given its simplistic, obvious nature."
"supported"
"currently, we have the ability as players to right click a persons name and report them as isk sellers. it's a special selection, requires confirmation, and abuse is treated by gm's with appropriate harshness already.so why do we not also have the ability for us as pilots to do the same 'right-click-report' with macro-ratters or micro-miners, in order to allow the player base to help monitor the greater community and protect eve against macro-using isk-farmers?it seems that this would also cut down on the rmt ccp has stated they despise, while also doing good to the markets by re-valuing isk verses minerals by creating a slight deflationary pressure to the majorly farmed mineral indexes; in short, good for everybody (except macro users).oh, and before the macro-miners chime in to complain, my tactical uniform is flame proof and i carry an anti-troll device in my utility belt."
"just how do you prove it 100% without a shadow of a doubt that he is macro mining?"
"the same way we detect micro miners in the field and petition them to ccp now.as it stands, as i understand it ccp investigates claims of \"isk seller\" to accounts manually already for characters reported as isk sellers using the right-click-report interface, so how they handle this version of it would be no different.i could also see significant cost savings for ccp in terms of support dollars if this was implemented.there is no con to this: and people who do not cheat have nothing to fear.oh, and i support my own proposal, of course."
"thats not completely true that it is no different. the amount of to be controlled accounts would be much higher. besides if one offers you money you could have logs to show in the case. but how do you identify a clear macro miner? one can only give a guess but can not be sure 100%. say you see a covetor mine lonely and takes all roids (veld, scor, omber...). maybe even in one cycle.is it a macro miner? or is it a noob having no clue of the values. or is it a guy who needs certain minerals and mines with a reason omber?i am still supporting your post, as i think ccp can cross reference \"warnings\" and already made out systems and other indications. it will be more work as ccp might has to watch the character.what is more is that other then the \"isk-seller\" button there can't be a severe punishment for denigration as its not possible to be sure. that will undoubtly lead to misuse from people who despise the mining business."
"no. i don't want 20 extra options on reporting someone when i right-click his name in the game, some people actually try to play the game, not get others into trouble. chat logs prove weather he is a isk seller. nothing except watching him playing can prove he is a macro ratter/miners/mission runner. nothing. rmt is isk sellers, macro miners aren't related."
"quite simple: you only have one single option called \"report player\", when you click it you can chose what for (isk seller, suspected macro, other forms of breaking the eula, etc).whats your point? as it stands, when you petition a player for suspected macroing, ccp will observe his behavior to determine if its true. the proposal just simplifies the process.they both brake the eula and macroing is one of multiple isk sources for isk sellers."
"i support this, lets help ccp fight rmt. 50.000 pairs of eyes is better then staff of ccp.besides we would only be reporting them. its still cxcp staff that has to look closer and make final determination if its macro. im sure ccp can implement gm intervention in form of popup window gm wanting to ask some random questions, now any macro will fail answer to those since theres no player there to answer.and since holy rage all ready proved that fighting macros is beneficial (remember cpu load went down), etc...lets make macros enemy of us all and fight them."
"thus far... i've seen no one come up with a fool proof totally factual method of catching a macro.i find it humorous that its all based on assumption and someones opinion.not supporting.the last thing we need is some idiot asshat reporting me while i'm afk and mining.and i'm quite sure ccp wouldn't like the massive influx of false positives."
"well, if i am an idiot asshat wanting to report you, i can already.the proposed system would just make it more convenient.i also have to say that between the unholy rage and the option to report isk spam, i notice alot less isk spam overall.so it works, let players help police the game, gm's still have the final descicion, nothing really changes beside making it easier to report."
"there is a big difference between isk selling and macro mining.how you can equivocate the two is beyond even my capabilities of understanding your foolishness.and again.. ccp isn't going to like getting flooded with useless reports that are based on total assumptions."
"ok, if you add a bit of drawback for wrong reports:- 1 wrong report: warning- 2 wrong report in a row: 3 day ban- any successive wrong report in a row add another 3 day ban.maybe (and only maybe) that will keep in check the people that will start to report random miners. \"he is mining everything in sight, surly a macro\"\"a gang mining any kind of roid in range; macro, macro!\"\"he dock when full and jump to a bookmark: macro!\"and so on. i have seen calling macro behavior every thing a normal miner or group of miner do. honestly it would become the more over abused tool in the game, becoming meaningless in no time."
"this... i can get behind.this makes me feel better... if i get reported by an idiot... he'll get his butt banned from the game for a few days.... sounds good to me.change your proposal to what venk mentioned and ill support it.o7 @ venk"
"which means half the smack talkers and assshots will be getting banned for 3 days. that 3 days of eve without them. that i approve."
"would very much like to see just towers and associated structures start as npc sold bpcs, no bpo. having goods such as robotics via bpo seems too complicated to get the isk sink back in.could use an avenue such as this to help out high end mining as well.something like a 1 run control tower bpc costing 350mil and then the materials using a large amount of high end minerals and low amount of low end minerals.another option could be to have a cheap tower bpc say 50mil and then the materials would include 300 mil worth of npc sold goods i.e. robotics, uranium, etc."
"first, wrong forum. second, theres a summer and winter expansion. dominion was just released and bugs are still being sorted, why do you want another one so soon?"
"when you jump, alliance and corp bulleting (and many other windows) scroll back to the top. maybe i want to have a read while auto piloting. when i buy, market window does back to the top.can we cut this counter-productive ui behavior?"
"you forgot the most annoying situation of them all:in fleet fights, where you are trying to scroll down to lock a primary in the middle or end of the list and it keeps resetting back to the top. this is one of many ui issues in eve..."
"and they need fixing"
"c'mon, folks. i'm not asking for too much. can we get the csm on board?moar support plox!"
"i think they're all on planes to iceland right about now, so you might have some trouble with that. bug them on tuesday or so, they should have sobered up by then."
"nothing much, just the ability for players in a specific language channel to invite people into that channel. it makes me feel terrible when i see a russian player, less than a day old, type a question that i can't answer and i can't explain to him how to get to the russian channel."
"you can't do this at present? weird. yeah, this makes good sense."
"i'm not sure if my eyes are actually bleeding, or if it's merely my brain bleeding out through my eye sockets, but either way, it hurts to read what you just wrote."
"my guess is some of those dumbasses actually play eve longer than a week, and have read some of the background fiction.as for your question: the pod you are in simulates the sounds you would hear to make the pilot more comfortable.also tried to point out the worst spelling / grammar mistakes in your post, i'd even try to advise you to not flame people based on their intellect, but i'll just say this instead hoping you'll understand it:get a brains moran!"
"hehehe you i understand and i'm sorry for my english, but a point remain i'm right"
"not supported. this would ruin an entire class of ships without any way to counter it.i can't believe this is even a proposal..."
"no your not right. yes eve is a game, no it's not a simulation, but you're asking to make an entire class of ships pointless which means you have no idea what you are talking about. no caveman predicted black holes because he made a lucky guess. in this case you are a caveman."
"it's not your english. even if english is your second(or fifth, or whatever) language, there is no language on the planet where \"!!!!!!!!!!\" is a proper construction, unless you're taking the tenth factorial of a number. also, i'm pretty sure most languages feature capital letters from time to time."
"since we now have the right to give up the rights to our salvage. its only right that p;eople that come into your mission and start looting should be concorded. or in the very least the person whos stuff is being tooken should have the right to shoot them."
"no."
"gms on salvaging kthxbye"
"you can't give up rights to salvage, because you don't have any rights. salvage is free for all."
"for the umpteenth billion time.no"
"if you don't want people salvaging while you're doing a mission, find a ship with 2 or more utility highs, equip a tractor beam and a salvager, and clean up as you go. but there's no reason that's even close to valid for a game mechanic change on this front."
"i can seriously agree with the general topic of this thread. tier 2 compared to tier 1 bcs has been a point of debate for quite a long while. i personally think that the brutix and possibly some of the other tier 1 bcs need to be rebalanced so they are not made redundant by tier2s of thier own race or another races bc.saying that the brutix is fine is quite the stretch at this point... people have found that the most effective fittings for it do not even use the active tank bonus at all simply because an active tank hogs all 5 slots and takes a large amount of grid reducing you're armament to that of electrons and a couple ions...i strongly agree that the brutix is indeed in need of another low slot ideally."
"this, personally i'd go even further and say 8 highs and turrets without the extra drones since as usual caldari go without a damage bonus to hybrids vs gallente ships, for precedent look at the rokh vs. mega for a similar relationship.if the 900 dps brutix needs fixing then all the tier 1 bcs need fixing otherwise the balance is just fine."
"--additional ships?--for those of you who haven't realized already, there are gaps in faction-ship's in terms of training. for instance there is no such faction ship for a training spec of mini / caldari or amar / gallente.its a hole that forces many to c"
"what pirate faction would be mini/caldari or gallente/amarr.as there is some rp involved in the whole thing your proposal should cover the whole thing and not just \"i want more ships\""
"the rp is a pretty gigantic hole in the proposal, but from a game design pov, i kind of want to see it, if only to have an excuse to put ships into the game with two bonuses to tanking. still, i'm sure ccp is aware of the idea, and i'm sure they have a schedule in their minds for when to roll out new ships so as not to burn design space too fast. i see no reason why we need to push them along faster."
"\"gangs\" are already able to immobilize you when they have multiple webs and everybody just using the long range script version, is missing something that makes scripts so interesting:stopping one cycle to change the script.also immobilizing at range with gangs still depends on the amount of webs on one target (hard to balance since blobs are unbalancing everything at some point) and the amount of boni the script adds to the range vs the loss of speed reduction.i still think that research/number crunnching in that direction might result some interesting and balanced results.i see your point with the blaster boats though, the sig. radius effect on webbing was just a thought."
"if you were to script them to have a significantly lower strength (-60% or so) at moderately increased range (+50%), so just enough to slow something down for tracking to catch up (t2 web = 20% speed reduction at 15km).wouldn't stacking penalties make the pin-in-place scenario a pure theory-craft exercise? (ie. 3 rapiers all dedicated to holding one target in place).basing strength on signature is counter productive, since it is the small stuff you actually want to slow down .. perhaps an inverse thing where mass is factored in or would that just exasperate the multi-plate buffer crap?"
"stacking woulnt be really theory crafting but we're not trying to balance 5 carriers repping one bs either ;) .anyway, i thought about the inverse thing but that would just gimp target painters even more, while my original reason to related web strength to sig. radius was to boost the painter with the idea as well.on a rapier (yeah minni recon sailor here) a target painter could have been an option vs. 2nd web fit on a recon if web strength would have related to sig. radius. the idea behind it was to discourage/counter usage of mwds on small boats a bit (a bit not totally) while strengthening the ab and the target painter.i still like the sig.radius web relation on that level but it might need some more thought to take into account the big ships without gimping the target painter in the process.a (sig radius to mass relationship) and then the web strenght effect maybe? so big ships/huge mass with high sig radius are effected less while small ships/small mass with a huge sig radius are effected more?the target painting effect on webbing wouldnt be that bad on a huge mass ship, while on a small one the effect would be noticeable."
"i don't really see the point. 80% of those systems are knockoffs of existing t3. just add an industrial option to the ships when the fifth subsystems come in - say, a mining offensive and a cargo defensive - and leave it at that."
"i support some of it, enough to give it a support star."
"so, an orca is a capital ship? i don't have cap skills and can still fly one. also, if this is true then i want to be able to fit a capital ship rep on it.i can support some of this if it's more of a t3 (ore) mining class vessel, though i agree a ship maint on it would be a bit much."
"i dont like mining but i could be fine with something more plasablelikesetup #1 bonus to common ore yeldsetup #2 bonus to rare ore yeldsetup #3 bonus to ice yeldsetup #4 bonus to gas yeldsetup #5 bonus to cargo or somethingno crazy hanger things just normal cargo hold"
"look at the blueprint. it's a cap ship in the same way that a freighter is. admittedly, i don't think that's quite what drake had in mind, but still."
"do cruisers have ship maint. arrays?didn't think so.orca's are cap ships... just not formal.freighters are capitals but they are a very special nich... flying cargo can... nothing more."
"good chance the rapid deployment subsystem will be changed to something with ice mining bonuses. didn't care for it too much myself (cruiser with sma ) but i liked the idea of being able to refit a t3 gang fast .also, i know you could just add these on as \"industrial subsystems\" to the current t3 cruisers. definitely a viable option but i like the idea of unique ore ships models."
"this is an mmo, people pay to interact with others...so why does the game even have a \"ignore all chat requests\" feature?i think this should be removed."
"the rules say we ca discuss proposals here so here i go..currently, we have the ability as players to right click a persons name and report them as isk sellers. it's a special selection, requires confirmation, and abuse is treated by gm's with appropriate harshness already.so why do we not also have the ability for us as pilots to do the same 'right-click-report' with macro-ratters or micro-miners, in order to allow the player base to help monitor the greater community and protect eve against macro-using isk-farmers?it seems that this would also cut down on the rmt ccp has stated they despise, while also doing good to the markets by re-valuing isk verses minerals by creating a slight deflationary pressure to the majorly farmed mineral indexes; in short, good for everybody (except macro users).oh, and before the macro-miners chime in to complain, my tactical uniform is flame proof and i carry an anti-troll device in my utility belt."
"edited: accidental double post"
"this term tell all of us what you have done about the lag, and about the new game mechanics or is that not your deal? should be!"
"so far the csm has in the course of five meetings looked at many proposals, debated them and submitted the list of agreed issues to ccp. the list (which can be found in the meeting minutes on the wiki) has been used as the basis for the csm - ccp summit which is taking place at the moment (well, day one is done, two more days to go).unfortunately we cannot discuss anything at all about the content of these meetings until the minutes are published. please note that some subjects are still covered by nda and thus won't be made public at this time (or possibly at any time). this is out of our hands.so whilst i cannot confirm or deny what subjects may or may not have been on the table today (and the next couple of days) i can assure you (for what it is worth) that we are doing our best to pitch the player submitted ideas to ccp and to give them feedback on other issues.i apologise for the unspecific answer at this time. the good news is that ccp have committed resources to getting the minutes out quicker than from previous summits"
"this could be great products to produce through planet based factories (aka. planetary interaction). i am always in favor of adding new manufacturing processes when new products have to be introduced, than expanding on the existing mechanics. gathering minerals and stuff them into a factory slot with a blueprint is a bit too simple in the long run for my taste.the manufacturing and production careers needs new content too."
"supporting significantly more love for bobs to justify the cost and training. to start:- cocd- increased base jump range- increased fuel bay- reduced portal consumption- t2 resistsi'd also like to see ccp revisit the bonuses and slot layouts on a per-ship basis, but i'm not going to hold my breath. i don't support allowing covert cynos in high-sec."
"i'd like to retract my support for allowing probing of cloaked ships, and reserve that for a new t2 destroyer class.however i support the above, and cynos in hisec. the only reason they're not allowed is because empires have \"cynojammed every hisec system\" since they can bypass cynojammers, it only makes sense."
"i agree that makes sense from a role/backstory basis (and tbh it would probably be fun) - i don't support it because i suspect it would lead to a proliferation of bobs-based ganks in high-sec, eventual cries of \"omg op\" and ultimately being nerfed to worse than they are now."
"i would start actually flying a redeemer if ccp did some love./signed"
"the whole idea of the topic is wrong, so no support.however, nerf insurance payout. and yes, that means for miners, missioneers and all in general. afterall, if your stupid enough to endanger your ship to npc pirates, you should not get any payment at all, just like if concord nukes you.afterall, its not suppose to be a fluffy lala-land."
"it happened to me 4 times in the last 2 weeks (jita going to amarr forth and back), and i had close to nothing (10 million cargo) in my ship. one time i was sitting in an empty hauler, the other itme i had stuff for like 1 million in cargo.so just because it didn't happen to you, doesn't mean that it doesn't happen at all.(btw i wasn't afk and my hauler *was* tanked, pvp buffered.)if the insurrance covers criminal activities and even makes it a good business to suicide gank, then this game mechanic lacks all logic and realism. and before you answer, that eve is not realstic, let me tell you - and you know this very well: eve imitates and mimics real life economics."
"carebear tears it would destroy a whole way to earn isk on, in eve! or not really, one rupture can suicide a inty 5. rupture = 5mill. so would be the same."
"damn that is completely insane, this is the best example of why insurance should be removed for concord related events!i mean whats next, suicide ganking newbs in their t1 frigs just for the hell of it?"
"this issue isn't going away, at least tell us you're working on it"
"support this....again, lets keep this on the front page. ccp, get on this....i hate seeing rain drops instead of the old shock and awe"
"just to be clear i'm not particularly concerned with the quality of hits as at the very least those statistics affect all weapons systems more or less equally, seeing a more realistic simulation would certainly be nice but is not my primary concern with regards to balancing railguns. for rails it's a question of having a point where they get competitive raw damage to other weapons systems particularly in the longer ranges where they are in theory supposed to reign supreme."
"even with another system in place, the damage potential of railguns is lacking. if you change uniformly how range affects all ships, you won't do anything to remedy the damage output disparity."
"by no means was i arguing for a change but yes you would alter the damage output by altering the chance to hit. however, using current mechanics i agree that railguns are underpowered and that range is largely irrelevant in their case since the only advantage they have is a narrow band of the engagement window(the last 12% of 250 km's) that isn't realistically operated in anyways.it would be very interesting to see the usage numbers on ammo by type because i suspect that for railguns anti-matter and iron are more or less the entire market for tier 1 ammo. though interpreting that could be difficult since the rarity of mid range fighting and problems ammo switching are more of a deterrent than dps."
"it won't, but it creates breathing room for rails to preform in, one of the key issues currently is that railguns outpreform other weapons beyond the lock limit, bringing ranges down in concert with the 15% boost to damage puts railguns in the position of being able to out preform other weapons systems in the ranges after tach aurora. this would be made more potent by a reduction in all t2 ammo damage as it would allow all weapons systems to compete using t1 ammo types in the 160+km ranges.the only part of this that would specifically apply just to rails though, is the 15% damage boost though, changes to t2 ammo should be done accross the board to avoid inbalancing them vis a vis each other."
"actually the ammo most used are am,plutonium, lead and iridium, no-one uses iron.why penalize t2 ammo damage? if people train for t2 there must be some reward. t2 ammo should have higher damage output than any t1 with the same range or vice versa, t2 ammo should have higher range than any t1 with the same damage output."
"why would no one use the longest range ammo? i can understand the others in terms of balancing dps vs cap usage but if you are sniping iron will far out range any of the alternatives."
"piddly damage, the only t1 ammo worth using if sniping is cn iridium, and that is only if yu can't fit t2 guns yet. the others i listed are cap stable/ damage.for example when shooting the station, there is no reason to use anything else than lead (cap)."
"some new ideas from people added to the initial post.. check em out."
"i can't express how much i love this idea. it needs some proper fleshing out and balancing notions (to prevent it becoming a massive isk fountain) but it really has some potential."
"supported"
"corp bookmarks are a must."
"supported."
"please just fix this already!"
"supported!"
"how many pages of supports do you need exactly for ccp to do something about it?"
"the required number of pages would probably break the forums..."
"i didn't try during autopilot but... you could maybe go on \"map\" and right click on the destination to remove it ?"
"fix this, or remove it on everything, and my alts will make sure a missioneer never sees another bit of loot again, ever....."
"quoted."
"to add to this, what the op is proposing is removing one of the drawbacks of highsec pvp ( and at the same time nerfing a mini profession, the rogue looter ), and therefore detracting from lowsec, 0.0, wormhole space and factional warfare pvp.war decs in highsec are about having a way to destroy your enemy without being able to hide in highsec, it is not about getting loot imho.it is very much comparable to people wanting arena's and/or instanced pvp and/or duels in eve, detracting from the other more pure forms of pvp which make eve unique."
"/signed"
"i agree!lock wrecks for x minutes/seconds (maybe 30secs or smth?) to owners corp and last hit pilot's corp. most of the pew pew happens at stations and gates, where even flagged looters would simply dock or jump.."
"eve online is a great mmo game because it allows the players freedom of choice of what careers they want to explore. the game had a very fine balance indeed between the interests of, say, the casual miner and the hardcore combat pilots. each and everyone was allowed its fair amount of time and space in the game to persue whatever they choose to do. this has changed with the event or wardeccing.wardeccing, whatever the fair intentions where when introduced, has now become a means to score easy kills and/or easy money in high-sec at the cost of the peacefull and innocent. a combat corp can start a war at very little cost against a miner corp, which of course is not equipped to defend itself. some people argue that miner/manufacturing corp should prepare to defend themselves but you cannot possibly expect that players that have devoted all their time and resources to mining/manufacturing to be a match to a bunch of players who have devoted all their time and resources to combat.furthermore, and at least as important, those miner did not come to eve to do combat, they chose a different path, because that is what they wanted, and that is what eve promised to be a valid paht when they started out. now, with wardeccing, they are forced into a path they did not choose, and they do not whish to follow.high-sec isn't called high-sec for nothing, but what wardeccing has effectively done is making piracy legal in high-sec. my corp, less than a month old, has already been wardecced three times, every time without a proper reason. wardeccing has given combat corps that do not want/dare to engage their equals the perfect to tool to just attack the defenseless instead, getting easy kills perfectly legal, and all that in high-sec. that can hardly have been the intention of the designers of this game feature. wardeccing is disabling the free choice of career paths in eve (freedom that the game was designed for), and forcing miners to quit player corps and join npc corps instead (which eve was not designed for).i do not propose to get rid of wardeccing, but restore the high-sec balance. when a wardec is mutual by both corps, no problem, go ahaed and fight it out. and low-sec being low-sec you should always expect being attacked. but when the wardec is not mutual, high-sec should still remain a save place, and any encounters should be concorded by the normal rules. i know this will also disable to opportunity to start wars in high-sec even if there is a valid reason, but then again, it would also be ridicolous if you could just give the local police (concord) some money and then can go beat them neighbours up without consequense whatsoever. high-sec is high-sec and should be properly guarded.bottom line: wardeccing, whatever its fair intentions were, has now become an abuse at the cost of those who justifiably have choosen a non-combat career in eve. and that abuse will have to stop. engaging others in high-sec should always be concorded, even when the corps are at war (unless the wardec is mutual)regards.gwabakk"
"no."
"i cannot support this motion as in eve pvp is not achoise in this case, you are getting attacked, and you need to defend yourself. so no. i can see where you are coming from, and that might be an issue indeed, i would not mind something like increasing wardec fees a little. so what happens if some bastard smacktalks in local where we live eevry day, and keeps bumping our miners? do i need to wait for him to mutualy declare war on me to teach him manners? that does not exactly work. i agree that high-sec war-decs do need to be looked at. they must be a more serious decision then they are not, and have more consequences then someone having to stay docked up for a while untill the others get bored. station games, nutral rr alts, and other **** like that makes them lame. it's used for griefing 80% of the time, where 19 percent is where the attacker fails, and 1% when it is actually a proper fight. so, yes, it might need to be looked at, but not this way."
"pvp oriented game.it is already easy enough to avoid war decs.no."
"welcome to eve. i see that you have located the forums! congratulations!now that you are here you can take some of the money that you made and use it to pay people to kill other people for you! exciting isn't it!for more information on how to defend yourself without a gun go to:crime and punishmentwarn others of the latest scam, hire a mercenary to seek revenge or brag about your kills. this is the place to discuss the criminal elements of eve."
"so tell me, how can a corp avoid being wardecced? only way is to leave corp and become a npc corp member. a player corp cannot prevent being wardecced.and as for the pvp argument: pvp in eve is not just about shooting each other. eve is much more than that. eve is not a combat game, combat is just one of the many game features. my point is that wardeccing is becoming a blockade of all those other featuresgwabakk"
"you do understand that eve stands for everyone vs everyone, right?never being truely safe is what eve is. it's why it stands alone.nonconsentual pvp combat is something that ccp holds dear."
"stop being peacefulbe peaceful elsewherehire someone to not be peaceful in your placeif none of the above,join npc corp to be wardec proof./topic"
"i cant support this petition on the grounds that it sounds like somebody who is still learning about what the game is about.i suggest you look into hiring a mercenary corp if you have no other deference."
"join an alliance maybe?"
"wrong. you can certainly do everything in eve with a war active as you can without a war active. you may have to be a minuscule bit more careful but having a war against you does not force you to stop what you are doing, dock up and log. starting wars with no reason or purpose against new players is a problem, but not to be solved by making wars useless and making high sec logistics near invulnerable."
"best answer."
"i will elaborate.no , learn how to defend yourself."
"you're an industrial corp. hire a mercenary corporation to counter wardec the attackers. you may not have pvp prowess, but as industrialists, you can fight with your isk.welcome to eve btw."
"i would support this, but i can not because it does not make sense in its current proposed implementation. :pto clarify: an exotic dancer does not 'put out', and thus they can not be considered 'hookers'. that is why the 'prostitute' item exists - it is common knowledge that prostitutes do in fact 'put out' - and can be bought via contract in jita if you are lucky enough to find one and are willing to pay a battleship hull worth of isk for her.for this reason, replacing the dead 'exotic dancer' with a 'dead hooker corpse' breaks player immersion and makes absolutely no sense; i would however support that they be replaced with a 'exotic dancer corpse' if they reach this state, as long as that it also an outlawed or otherwise taboo item that will bring the concord/police down on the player who is detected as having one in their cargo hold. this would make perfect sense, and would be worth supporting."
"supported."
"it would be nice to have an option to \"buy all\" instead of having to type in the exact number/amount matching the sellers amount.this could be done either as a right click option when selecting the item from the market window, or a tick box in the actual purchase window when buying the item."
"all items?so if i click 'buy all' and select trit in jita, its going to try to buy every bar of trit in the market?without confirmation that you want to use up your entire wallet doing so? buying the most expensive first, right? ;)please elaborate on this more. as it sounds, i can't support this as it would be too easy to be exploited, or erase peoples wallets because they select the wrong option by mistake."
"something of this variety could be nice, yes. perhaps just a double arrow or something, make that box mouse-interactable instead of keyboard-only."
"there are a couple of different overlapping probe bubble configurations i use when scanning. problem is, every time i change the probes' range, i have to once again manually move them into the preferred configuration.i find it difficult to believe that people who can build spaceships wouldn't be able to come up with programming to support automated probe positioning. after all, it's just math, right?thus, i propose a feature be added to the scanner which allows the relative-to-each-other positions of selected currently active probes to be saved in a named \"probe pattern\". that probe pattern could then be selected at any future time as the \"active\" pattern, whereupon clicking a \"cluster probes\" button would cause active probes to snap to relative positions as defined in the selected pattern. obviously if you had more probes out than the probe pattern addressed, the extras would be ignored. some limitations might need to be imposed, such as all probes need to be set to the same scan range.it would sure make probing less tedious. true, it would likely make probing for ships when using combat probes easier. for that reason, i'd settle for it only working with core probes...because tbh, it's the constant adjustment when scanning out bazillions of sigs in wormholes that drives me crazy."
"i wouldn't mind seeing this happen. i'm somewhat used to doing it the old way, but a save option would be much appreciated.edit: oh, and first."
"dear god yes! right click \"move to 2au formation 1\" hehe wud be the name i'd have one saved as hehe"
"oh absolutely, yes, yes, and thrice yes."
"love this idea, it doesn't give an edge but it just adds convenience and lessens frustration. it's a \"duh, why didn't we do that from the start\" kinda thing."
"ahh guess what, after typing all that crap, you failed miserably.even if the active tanking modules get a buff, you will still have the issue that resist bonuses are superior to repair bonuses.basically although it would fix active tanking, the repair bonused ships would be still subpar and need a boost.sure enough, go right ahead and suggest a boost to the whole active tanking system but don't hinder this request just because your a nub.resist bonused ships can fit active tanking modules you know, so you still need to give the repair bonused ships a clear boon in that field.10%/lvl is a reasonable boon."
"not supportedactive tank boost fine active tank bonus boost isnt"
"supported."
"support"
"yes! to engine trails. this should be in 100%the others are nice to have as well."
"depends on the drive being used, a propolsion ion drive, would vent negative charged ions past the positive grid, leaving the ions as a train as they expel out the back... as for explosions, if their nuclear based propolsion drives, im almost positive the f*cking impulse/warp drive exploding would make a massive explosion.as for the venting of gases, it wasnt said that we needed more fires on the ship, though random placement of the fire and smoke, and maybe gases leaking from the hull in various areas would be nice... even if to each client it looked different atleast i want to see some bad ass effects when im loosing my 200m isk battleship slowly but surely."
"remove local all together. but seeing that is never gonna happen, this is the next best thing."
"exactly. this already works as the proposal suggest, you just have to learn how to use the feature, and navigate the ui to enable it. this may speak of a usability issue however, if people have trouble finding the option to enable this.so no, i do not support this proposal on the grounds that it is requesting a feature that already exists."
"yes please! text-only option is good, but should also remove the avatars from the channel-members list."
"as has been said above, using a suboptimal user interface as a tool for game balance is dumb."
"so this topic has been brought up many times outside assembly hall, but i haven't seen it brought up in the assembly hall so i'm bringing it up because this needs to be f*cking fixed once and for all!ok the client shows every shot \"x missed y\" \"y glanced off your hull\" \"y scored a direct hit on x\", so the client side obviously knows whether the shot was a hit or a miss or a glance...so fix the client side rendering to match the information! if a beam laser misses select a random yet close distance from the ship to render the beam off into the distance of space... if a rail misses a ship render it randomly off the ship so that it shows as a miss placed shot, if its a glancing blow, have it hit the edge of the ship but still go off into the dark, if its a direct impact have it impact the ship solidly with a nice big splash effect/debris from the ship surfaceif ccp can't handle communicating misses/hits for all the ships in the area, at least show the information that i already know about (namely my ship, and the ships im shooting) as my clients already receiving this information and just needs to properly render it.theirs no reason that a frigate should be getting directly engulfed in a beam laser and on top of that the beams stops at the ship, if it was a complete miss!this problem has plagued the eve engine forever< and its one of the biggest experience breaking problems that i've yet to see... (well that and the fact that the missles come out of no where sometime seven the top of the ship... /me shakes head, but thats for a different proposal)the gun impacts need to be resolved, this is a big problem, and i would imagine an easy solution since all the datas their, the client graphic engine just needs to be tweaked.please remember to check the support this topic when replying if you support this problem's need to be fixed"
"110% supported"
"there is irony in this statement. unless you're hung by the dread timer."
"exactly."
"i support this idea.my 0.2 isk1) macro mining or ratting is against the eula and either allows a char to at best get an unfair isk advantage or at worst supply rmt2) it is easy to detect a macro. once they are full, they return to empty cargo. same as a human. the difference is that a human has to initiate the warp, while the macro miner gets it done automatically (assuming no macro jet canning here - which i have never seen). so if a gm request/conversation is initiated and they dock without responding and then return to mine + rinse/repeat, then that means are a macro miner. the afk miner would have to return to computer to dock. upon returning they would see the message from the gm. to prevent the macro trying to spoof the gm, a captcha can be employed.3) penalties can be imposed on the reporter for abuse. what they are and how they work should not stop you supporting an otherwise valid idea.edit - checked support"
"i just went through all the fears and points brought up and i think i have an answer for all of them. if not, please say so.first:i understand that people who actually do like to mine all day are worried about getting reporting by the paranoid and losing accounts: the great thing about this - and i think it has already been brought up nicely - is that if people are stupid and try to abuse this reporting method they will simply lose their own accounts themselves, since repeated abuse of the petitioning and reporting system is against the eula already anyway. people will not abuse it because they themselves have a lot to lose if they do so. this already exists and is a part of this proposal by virtue of the fact that this is how petitions are handled today already. so please if that is the only thing stopping you, support this proposal.second: as maxsim goratiev stated above, it *is* possible to watch somebody and see that they are looping, etc and thus are running a macro. it would be wise of ccp to leverage this and allow its player base to help it cut costs in these hard economic times by leveraging its player base to help it fight rmt to keep its good name. it is not like the player reporting the abuse has the final say, and unless people can prove otherwise i consider that an invalid argument against this proposal, as well as an irrational fear that can not come to fruition and should not stop people from supporting this proposal as its simply not possible.third:rmt is many things, and despite what maxsim goratiev stated above they *are* related. i do not know the rules on talking about rmt, so unfortunately i do not feel comfortable with explaining the connection here. however even if they were not connected, they are both actions that are still against the eula and tos and thus both considered forms of cheating and abuse that ccp has publicly stated will result in a ban.fourth:the idea of the afk miner getting reported is nothing but a logical straw-man argument, because it is not rational to state that you can be both \"afk\" and \"performing actions\" like mining in the game at the same time without cheating since either you are at your keyboard pressing the button, or you are afk getting a refreshing beverage and your script is doing it for you. both can not be true, and the usage pattern of the guy who gets up for a drink and switches between roids when he sits down and notices it popped is very different from somebody who is running a script in a loop. they look completely different to both the players watching the person and to the ccp employee tasked with looking at server logs. getting the two mixed up is not possible. based on this i have to ask with respect that drake draconis please either clarify or retract his argument against this proposal, as his other issue - being reported when you are not afk - is already taken care of by the first and second items above.epilogue:as noted above, its cheaper for ccp to leverage the player base in detecting macro miner's.in the end this proposal is really about just lowering the amount of effort required to report suspected - key word, \"suspected\" - cheaters and their accounts so that ccp can do a proper due diligence and investigation. it is not like one guy reporting your account as a macro will result in an automate permaban, and anybody who thinks so is simply ignorant of how things work now.the end result of this is that if implemented it would be easier to report cheaters, while adding no harm or discomfort to innocent people who legitimately want to mine all day. because the fact is, ccp would not ban an account that was reported for macro if that user was not cheating, since it goes against ccp's best interest as a company to ban accounts for any reason that is not legitimate. and abusers will themselves get banned under the current petition policy so it polices itself.please support. you have nothing to fear."
"you're aware that mining lasers have reasonably long cycle-times?plenty of time to afk + mine.all this talk of \"the eula says\"..... while it seems no one has actually bothered to read the eula."
"yes, but that looks completely different in the server logs than a macro does, as well to the people watching. there is simply no way that a innocent person would be seen as a macro when they are not.are you stating that the eula allows macroing? because ccp has explicitly stated otherwise. please clarify your point."
"the server logs don't work in this way. the multiplayer architecture is such that the logs aren't a reliable source of exactly when things happened.if you've ever had a disputed reimbursement petition then you'll know ccps response is \"our logs don't work like that\".the use of macros is prohibited under set circumstances.this allows for users of hid helpers for the disabled. some users require the use of macros to be able to play the game, however they gain no advantage over other players with these, thus they are allowed.this clause has created some ambiguity and although it has been clarified by ccp in the past, different opinions on it's meaning have been put forward.also remember not all macros are automated bots but instead keystroke combinations recorded on gaming keyboards.there are also likely people that use macros to map keys that ccp hasn't included in the assignable shortcuts.yes market bots and 23/7 ratters are bad.... yes ccp do what they can.... no your anecdotal observation does not constitute any real evidence.making mining more painful then it already is isn't a solution either."
"not true. i actually had them tell me exactly what happened and point out a noob-ish mistake i had made. this tells me the logs work fine, and that your argument is invalid.and macro mining is one of them.you did bring up some good points; but i still fail to see how any of the fallacious arguments you have made have any legitimate stance against making it easier for people who see the same person make the same exact same action at regularly timed intervals for 20 hours straight for days in a row with no deviation on timing to report the obvious macro miner."
"because your mistake was something obvious that didn't depend on timing of events or client desync.nowhere in the terms is macro mining specifically prohibited.\"acquisition of items, currency, objects, character attributes, rank or status at an accelerated rate when compared with ordinary game play.\"so timing of events is your criteria? a) the server log times don't match what actually happened on the client due to desync.b) any bot can be programmed to add randomness to timings.just to clarify, i don't macro, but i wish mining wasn't painful.i have rsi from many years of computer work, sometimes just putting my hand in the shape of a mouse can hurt.it hurts. i wish it didn't. i would like to see features in eve that reduce strain and allow users to reduce the amount of time clicking or holding the mouse.i'd like to see macros reduced by the inclusion of fantastic ui in eve itself. a level playing field where everyone can play without physical pain.chasing legit users around because they recorded a few keystrokes is counter-productive to this goal."
"that does not make your argument valid, and it does not invalidate my own experience.not true. they have stated this very publicly, so unless you can get a ccp employee to respond to this thread and say that macro mining is ok and allowed by the rules and is not considered an exploit, that argument is simply invalid. no, that was simply a perfectly legitimate example. people in my profession call it a \"test case\".not if the goal is to catch the people who cheat by recording these keystrokes.your entire bias against the proposal seems to stem from a misunderstanding of the rules banning macro use in all forms.edit:if you re-read the 'unholy rage' and 'real money trading is bad, mkay?' dev blogs again, you will find that they both explicitly mention that macro miners support rmt and macro-anything is against the rules of the game. clearly, ccp has stated publicly that macro-ing is against the rules and anybody that declares otherwise is wrong."
"i believe there have been several gm responses but nothing concrete.it's probably smart of ccp to keep this a lil open-ended to leave room for people with different style interfaces due to disability or other legit reasons.when boiled down my objection isn't to the rules but more of a redirection of this approach to the problem.a report button isn't the same for macros like it is for isk spammers as others state above.while other threads have suggested further input from miners to ensure they are at the keyboard.i believe the solution can't be anything that requires further input, while user reporting of macros is completely subjective.just like the war on drugs, there is zero-tolerance and then harm-reduction approaches. ccp for the most part have gone with the carrot and stick kind of harm reduction.further harm reduction could be achieved by bringing up the ui to the point where the gap between macro and player is reduced while still allowing higher efficiency for micro-management.someone quoted me as saying i wanted automated mining but this isn't the case either. there is room for improvement in the system as it stands. i often find mining that my hand is constantly on the mouse even in between cycles, while jetcan mining adds a lot of unnecessary clicking.this is poor ui which can be improved, there is no argument for it being a click sink.i'd like to see a shift away from time-sinks being connected to masses of clicking and mouse work. it's possible to get these same gameplay effects while maintaining the possibility for micro-management and the same mix of possibilities when it comes to mining logistics.reduce the clicking and mouse work, thus reducing the area in which macros can operate."
"did it occur to either of you that neither of you know what the server logs actually frakking say?i mean... its all good your having a lengthy discussion but you people have no bloody idea what is logged or what is not logged.gm's won't even show you the logs.. they just say if its is or not is... and that's not much.with all due respect... stop acting like fools and stick to the topic on hand.just think about what your getting at... macro's by definition are keystrokes recorded and played back.and i'm pretty damn sure they are not keylogging as it would be a severe and very stupid move on the part of ccp considering the various laws in the various countries concerning privacy.now its possible they log actions... its possible that they may record significant events...but we don't know... you don't know... they won't tell you... and likely for a damn good reason.to debate is stupid and foolish at best... macro is a problem.. but don't make stupid assumptions over things you don't know!as to the recent responses to push for support :the fact remains... i will not support this proposal until the op edits it to say what venk suggested.period.i have enough trouble with the csm misreading and doing there own little things... i'd like to be accurate with such a dangerous proposal."
"one of the points of this thread is that people woting for it want a immediate action against the suspected macro.most of the time it is the worst solution.a) if he is a real macro user linked to a money trade network you want to watch him to caught the whole network and ban a lot of people in one go. so you don't want to alert him sending messages on the tune of \"you are a macro?\" to the character. b) if he is a player using a macro for personal gain you want to stop him as fast as possible. c) if he is not a macro but a regular player you want to bother him as little as possible..d) in every case you want to use as little manpower as possible while getting your goal and checking all the reports about suspected macros, with 5 guys reporting the same character so that ccp \"will\" act and 5 different gm getting a report about player x is not the way to go to maximize efficient manpower use.so only in case b) the suggested reporting idea work. so non supported."
"i oppose this only because it creates more risk-free isk for people who stay at their keyboard. actual people should mine in lowsec and nullsec with friends."
"i would think the system should be smart enough to channel 5 different macro reports of the same offender to 1 gm :p"
"that is totally and utterly false. please read the 'unholy rage' and 'rmt is bad, mmmkay?' devblogs again, as a head gm said this was abuse and against the rules very publicly and very explicitly and anything you say to the contrary just makes it look like you can not read english and do not know what you are talking about. i'm not going to debate this further with you as i have proven my point and you are only trying to troll, especially since the rest of your arguments are outside the scope of this proposal.than support this proposal.that is already in place, there is no need to add it because it already exists, since its already against the rules and is considered a form of abuse to abuse the petition system. please explain why you think its not. you should support this if that is your only issue.in my professional experience most ticketing systems based on assets (in this case accounts) are that smart if configured correctly, and unless its a funky in house developed system instead of an off the shelf software solution, it should already support this so that would not be an issue.. but lets consider this added to the proposal just in case in order to provide yet more safety to innocent users who get reported by mistake."
"a lot of the confusion here is about the definition of macro. most ppl dont understand, or misread the eula. or they read one part and ignore the other part.from my dealings with devs- heres some clarification of some areas.simple shortcut remapping- allowed. it can be done from eve through the shortcut menu. remapping multiple keys to a mouse stroke or an individual key is not an exploit because you can already do this from the eve shortcut menu (shortcut menu doesnt allow mice remapping but in this case theyve allowed it because its trading a keyboard keystroke for a mouse keystroke)if you cant do it from the eve shortcut menu- it cant be done within the confines of the rules. releasing drones for instance- no shortcut for that. if you were to create one with a third party program you would essentially be hacking the client.nothing that reads client or screen information and uses it to automate an outcome is not allowed.dr battlesmith brings up the point of players with disabilities. it hasnt been an issue for me so i have no petition info on this situation. i suppose one could contact a dev through a petition and make a request for an exception. its not the type of thing you want to point to after a ban as justification for breaking the eula."
"someone in a orca bumped my mackinow while ice mining. along came a brutix and attacked me. no big deal, part of game. he got me about 1/5th into armor and concord arrived and attacked his brutix. i found the next thing interesting. his ship dissapeared and there was no wreck, just his pod floating there next to the orca. i asked if he docked the brutix in the orca, and was told no.. you can't dock a combat ship in one (load of crap). ok, i really don't care about the attack etc, i didn't lose the ship, but niether did the attacker. there was no wreck, none! i was watching the whole thing. it simply dissappeared. (or rather docked i think)my question is, \"is docking a concord agro'd ship (criminal flagged) into an orca to save it, an exploit?\" would seem to be as your avoiding concord, which is an exploit.edited: i changed to proposal/fix. agree that concord agro'ing the orca would be a fix. and yes, i was watching the entire event, and there never was a brutix wreck."
"if it is like you described, i'd say yes, it's an exploit.to fix it, make ships with aggro unable to be placed in the hangar, or, for more tears, make concord also kill the orca :dthat being said, you have either forgot to formulate this thread as a proposal/fix, or you posted it in the wrong forum. assuming you wanted to propose a fix to the exploit, i'll support it."
"sounds like an exploit to me.support for a fix"
"the same got reported for carriers aswell. you can move ships into the ship maintenance bay under aggression."
"i don't think being able to store a ship with aggression is an exploit, at least not yet.probably the same flaw in the aggro-mechanic that allows rr ships to dock/jump.however; if done to avoid concord it is a banning offence .. doesn't matter if the trick used is \"new\", crime is still a crime.aggro mechanics need to be fixed in all regards, for this my support."
"maybe also file a petition about it."
"yup, petition it. avoiding concord is also a bannable offence i think."
"avoiding concord is considered an exploit, so yes, it is a bannable offense, though, in reality if it's your first offense you may just get a temp ban. that would be up to ccp.in any case, yes, i would definaitely petition it, and yes, ccp needs to fix it."
"docking under aggro won't matter as you can pop the pod in all eventuality... course i'm sure someone would point out that its still exploitable (session timer?)but docking under concord?escaping concord is an bannable offense.so yes... it should be petitioned."
"if that's what really happened, then i support this topick, and next time make sure concord kills the orca as well."
"err, no. just make them unable to dock/store. docking timer should be same as storing ship timer."
"yeah, this needs a fix of some sort."
"i support this need to be fixed... although i recommend not to criminal flag the orca to concord, just refuse to allow the ship to be docked if its criminally flagged.problem with criminally flagging and concording the orca is if a undercover badguy joined a corp to \"protect them while mining\", and then attacked a neighboring ship to get concorded, drop his ship into the corporate orca, and let concord pop the orca for tears, thats just wrong lol."
"my problem is there is no systematic way to occupy systems in fw, there is also no reward at all for doing it, we rely on some randomisation code snippet to spawn/seed plexes in random locations all over the region, so even if u do pull of the impossible and occupy some system, u get no prize, nothing... all this hard work, for nothing? why even bother, u get nothing."
"given that epic mission arcs are now an integral part of the game as high-level content missions, i bring the proposal to create new arcs to fill, or transform, some of the missing gaps.first ill like to review current existing arcs so everyone understands for what im aiming for.the blood-stained stars is meant for newer players to present the eve lore and state of affairs galaxy wide. i ran through it, and albeit entertaining it was just getting your feet wet into the real background and storyline of eve.right to rule, penumbra, syndication and wildfire are the epic arcs for expert missions runners with high-faction standing. their storylines are filled with complots and high-level connections.smash and grab, angel sound are the pirate epic arcs, meant to allow players running missions in lawless space and fix their pirate standings if desired. introducing the player to the life of danger and glory that means living out of concord reach.however we currently lack a kind of mid-level epic arc with the empire factions. something that allows a not-so-new player to unlock wider options for missions at level 2. in gallente space there is a set of missions that i dont know if are considered epics arcs but exist nonetheless, the circle agents (6 level 1 agents who just ask for courier stuff and bring you back to the starting point) and the graduation certificate chain (avrue auz -> bezan picholen -> mamo guerre ).we also have the old cosmos constellations.this proposal is to rekindle with these concepts and transform them into epic arcs using existing tools, with the integration onto the journal tool and enhancing the storytelling those missions provide.every faction should have a sort of circle agent epic arc that allows gaining basic standing with a varied group of npc corporations of said faction. i understand all factions currently have them, but the idea would be to transform said chains into epic arcs, extend the number of corporations that you gain access to and provide a common starting point in each faction space much like the pirate arcs have.improve the graduation certificate chain, changing the certificate to a token of trust from the faction and enhance storytelling. by that i mean, we as players run the new certificate arcs but get much deeper info on the lore and background of a single faction, understand more the shades of gray in it and learn the origin and position they have in the political landscape of new eden, in the end a token of trust is earned after proving yourself to be loyal to the chose faction, just a in-game item as souvenir.also, i would like to see the current cosmos missions chains converted into epic arcs with multiple branching, allowing players to get involved with the long gone civilizations of new eden, their relics, and the current power blocs attempting to seize them.finally, the original reason of this post, a proposal to build a new set of epic arcs aimed at level 2 difficulty with the inter-faction relations (say khanid-amarr) encompassing the fragile but important ties that bind such groups together.given that epic arcs tools were designed to provide a continuing experience of mission running within a single plot, certificate chains, circle agents and cosmos could all be integrated into it, and freshen up existing content of the game.please provide feedback or support depeding if you like it or not."
"instead of prostitutes being static roleplay items, make each one pay you an amount of isk per day equal to the amount of manhours players spend docked in the station the prostitute is in divided by the number of prostitutes in that station. perhaps the prostitutes need a fixed upkeep so that you can't clutter every system in the cluster with them. maybe every so often one would catch a disease and wouldn't be able to work unless you bought her medicine.this could help nerf highsec mission running by creating more lucrative alternatives.iskperprostitute * (average number of players in station * number of your prostitutes in station)/total number of prostitutes in station - costsperprostitute*number of your prostitutes in station"
"lol @ the idea.no to the proposal, passive income isk faucets are the last thing the economy needs."
"paging jade constantine to this thread"
"i support my own thread :)"
"people are always saying that space is a big place, right?contrary to what most people believe, this space isn't.this specific message is going out to the people that want sovereignty, but can't take it simply because the moment they do, a much larger alliance simply bowls over them and overwhelms say...a 200 man alliance with about 50-60 active players with a 1,500 man alliance with about 700 active players. the simple fact is, the smaller alliance simply doesn't have the means to fight back against the larger alliances, simply because they all want the same spot. the sandbox is getting too crowded, to use a ccp term.my proposal is extremely simple. increase the amount of space in the normal eve galaxy by a large amount, say five new regions with about 125 systems each. that total would allow a huge amount of new expansion, and the propsects of expanding further outward would be ideal for a large alliance, thus leaving the smaller alliances free to simply hold three or four systems out of a constellation. the galaxy as it is presents too little opportunity to expand simply because the larger alliances take up a huge amount of room within the nullsec regions. more room in the sandbox, more people can play comfortably. of course, i'm not suggesting that ccp comes up with say...another five regions of wormhole space, i mean in the actual galaxy itself, where no doubt more than 90% of the playerbase prefers to reside. the additional room would give enough space to allow players to explore other options while not stifling the players that already have a foothold in a certain area of space. more freedom would allow the smaller groups to simply be overlooked by the much larger alliances, and thus their efforts to build up wouldn't be utterly wasted by the attempt. all this said, this is simply a proposal, so if you have more to contribute, please do."
"the vast majority of 0.0 is empty.alliance sov is shrinking and will continue to as the \"fat\" is trimmed.that will leave plenty of pockets where you can hop in.. the alliance that gave it up will often just \"meh\" you. it's already happening if you look at the influence map (black star alliance, hun reloaded, sex drugs and rock 'n' roll, industrial revolution, primary., honorable templum of...wtf?, green alliance, flame bridge, stella polaris.)more and more will open.a few years ago the drone regions were opened up because people were hollering about it. and here we are, again.there's plenty of open space out there. go and take it... just be ready to fight to keep it."
"what do you think of a new ship class? i would find good dronentr<U+FFFD>ger! the ship can not establish a fighter and bomber. the hp of the shield, armor and structure as between 50,000 and 60000th skills: at amarr: amarr battleship level 4 amarr dronecarrier level 1 spaceship command level 5 the rest should be clear. bonuses: 3 more drones can ever use skill level 10% bonus on the damage from drones 10% bonus to the damage of large energy turrent slots could then auschauen: shield tankers: 6 hi-4 weapon slots 2 missiles 8 med.slots 5 low-slots amor tanker: 6 hi-4 weapon slots 2 missiles 5 med-slots 8 low slots others: max speed: 80 ms dronenkapazit<U+FFFD>t: 1000 m3 drone bandwidth: 500 3000 m3 cargo space these vessels are not to include capital ships. so they can also go into the hi-sec"
"dude....is this a joke?"
"no, he is serious about that. suggested it first in the german eve forums. we all said nooo, he ignored us obviously.or he is a german troll trying to get international. not very good, as you can see."
"he was in the german forum"
"this is a good idea!but first, ccp must release the high sec titan with 20 suppercarriers-drones!this 20 suppercarriers-drones can also drop bombers and fighters... i think 5 are balanced...this super-titan-supercarrier-drop-ship are not capital large and will costs 5mio isk."
"i can't find enough facepalm images to properly express the amount of facepalm i had.ban '10s tbfh."
"first page in epic threadnow for some content: no. 'nuff said."
"what is this i don't even"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"lmao, great translation"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.for all your facepalm needs."
"the word noob doesn't come close to describing this guy."
"what you think about officers ships? the b<U+FFFD>ueprints for that ships you will get at the offc."
"we at the german eve boards are allready talking to our councellor merkel to revoke this guys german citizenship."
"hell, my eyes still hurts from the last thread.please anyone, stop this guy."
"you may or may not be aware of a bug present in the sovereignty system in eve.game breakagethis thread details a lot of what is happening in 3d and z-r. neither side can claim sovereignty for more than 30 minutes due to a bug in the sovereignty mechanic. can we please get a response from someone on this?i feel bad for both sides of this engagement and it is not fair to anyone. i felt the need to bring this to the attention of the csm because no one else had."
"because everyone is asking like for instance my corp everyones just excited about whats next. you know any links or anything about the new ones ?"
"there you go"
"this probably has been raised before, but i'll raise it again for emphasis: fw needs some love!i understand the limitations of game mechanics in realistically reflecting an ongoing war, but what i'm seeing right now is outright ridiculous.it is a regular occurrence that i warp into complexes of all sizes only to see a single speed tanked sigil \"fighting\" there (and usually warping out at the first sight of danger). apparently all it takes to defeat the almighty imperial navy is to orbit their installations for a few minutes after which the \"best and brightest\" of the empire will simply surrender without a shot being fired at them.this can be fixed very easily. even if you don't want to balance out the npc difficulty levels (which i could live with) you could at least make it so that a complex can never be taken so long as there are still npc's flying in the same complex.this would restore my sens of immersion, and also make victory all the more satisfying and deserved for the opposing militia."
"how about just have each major empire be an island of highsec within a sea of lowsec (all surrounded by nullsec) and increase the number of connections between each empire so that there aren't terrible gatecamps, and make it so that you can get to any other empire by remaining in lowsec. the solitude region has the right idea."
"bump"
"i keep two separate windows for chat/info, becausee i like keeping a bunch of windows open. when i jump mid-typing, the ui switches focus from one to the other, and i wind up typing a third of a sentence into the wrong window. i hate that bug so very much..."
"i still dont get fleet finder shouldnt i list all the fleets in the constalation thats not hiden?"
"supported"
"can't agree more. kinda silly that you gather more info about your own drones when they are zipping around at 5kms than you do when they are sitting in your hanger...as people have already stated drones need a massive revamp... imho i think that the system needs to be taken back to the drawing board and reworked as a whole.buying drones should be like buying ships. i think that drones should have slots and allow for customization beyond the ability to buy slightly faster or slower drones that do less or more dmg of a different type. new drone models as well as cool drocking and undocking animations would be pretty pro."
"also need to be able to fix drones in drone bay. slowly."
"epic fail, delete topic plox"
"supported"
"ofcourse"
"bring back the epic intro movie!youtube link to old introthis intro is so much better and full of winsauce. it should not be forgotten and lost in time, it should be re included somewhere. just watching the intro makes me want to playt he game more!anyone else agree?regardsdavo"
"first, the problem. - with any bounty system, alts can and will be used to get around the system. there is very little that can be done to prevent an alt of a pirate collecting a bounty and then giving the cash to the pirate in question. ergo, collecting bounties must be done in such a way that there is an added cost to the pirate for being collected. clone fees is one such way. restricting payouts is an another. in combination this should work.proposed solution:- cap all bounty payouts to the cost of the clone.- the bounty only reduces by the amount of the clone, but is not eliminated completely.- example: someone who has a bounty of 20 million on his head is killed. his current clone is worth half a million isk, so that is the reward to the one collecting the bounty. the remaining bounty drops that half mil to 19.5.effects:- this would immediately destroy any profitability behind an alt committing fraticide, killing off his alt to collect the full fee. to remove the bounty all together, it would require killing the alt several times until the total pay out was reduced to 0, and therefore incurring the clone cost each and every single time. there is no net gain for the player and his alts.- bounties would be smaller for the hunters as well, but they don't suffer the penalty of having to pay for a new clone. for them, killing off the pirate is almost pure profit, other then the cost of the munitions and equipment."
"supported"
"while your proposal addresses the exploitability of the current bounty system, it makes the system near pointless. who is gonna risk his stuff, just to get the meager value of the clone as bounty? also, you don't propose a solution for the acquiring/transferring of killrights.nevertheless, i think you're going in a right direction, which eventually leads to damage based bounties, where you can avoid the exploitability as long as bounties payed out < damage done. like with any approach to revamping the bounty system, there are many unsolved issues, but i'm keeping at it..."
"/signed"
"interesting idea, it'd be nice but it hardly matters because you can group them in station easily enough with the shift key."
"supported."
"it should be this way already."
"good idea... this will help a lot in the help channel"
"i love how all the supporters are members of freighters united, invention inc, supplychain warriors, and all sorts of freighter-corps.no no no no and no!"
"ok, i'll bite....i don't pay to interact with others, i pay to play the game. i could go an entire year happily not talking to anyone in game. i know this will change some day, but for the past couple of years i have spent maybe a total of 30 minutes in chat.in short, i hate people, have no use for them.there, you caught one.red"
"the convo popup is exploitable by pirates who convoes targets as they decloak, so they can't see what they are doing and can't control their ship. to prevent this you have to be able to block all convoes."
"would be cool if someone has a container in space left behind that has a password on it, that you can use your analizer and take some time to decrypt the container to get the password.it would actually show you the password, so that you can re-type it into the contain to gain access.that way you can try the same password on all the containers floating around.recenlty i hit a pocket of space where there were about 20 cargo containers floating around.it would have been cool if i can hack into them.perhaps make it a skill to learn or something."
"i think they shud make a hacking v prerequisite skill called, secure hacking and allow hacking of the secure cans at level 1 let 1 cycle to decrypt take 6m, each level of secure hacking reduce it by 10% so at best its a 3m hack....to make it fair during hacking u are flashy red to the corp you are hacking, if you open it and take something from it you get on the kill list for 5 days for the corp, hey no one said being a criminal was easy"
"actually their is a way to do this... and not disturb the fact that they need to be transported and thats part of the \"sov work\"soverignty structures are concord based, so make them be forced to be built in highsec, at a concord sanctioned station (highsec), just like u cant anchor capital ship buildings in hs, make the reverse, concord building array only in > 0.4 and make it for building soverignty structures!!!!!!!!"
"theirs a topic that got pretty good support i recall being told that all that was needed was 25 player support and 35 player discussion, but so far havent heard of the topic being picked up to be voted on by the csm"
"sup"
"your stuff, can sok and i get it? :d"
"lmao...clunk!wowi thought this was an informative read first post locked and loaded but i walked into a flame and debate.ye ok so i am informed that nothing informative can be posted without burning in flames, or being debated;.. ahhh jet cans now i entered this mess,... hops in covert ops ship engages cloak, cynorgisic(spell error)field, and jump bridge... warp drive, jump drive active and me gets the lowsecell out of here!warning you cannot engage cloak while being targeted, you cannot activate fields or jump bridges while being scrammed, warp disrupted and webbied!warning! you are about to experience and out of pod experience....ummmm did i buy a clone? i dont remem............."
"and your point is...? you forget that a lot of so called \"carebears\" keep eve fine and dandy runnning. i even don't get all of this \"carebear\" calling. this thread is about ppl moving around in high sec, not in delve or fountain, my friend. it's decouraging, should a newbie lose everything he/she collected, due to some kid suicide ganking in high sec without real penalty and even making a fortune out of the insurance payment. no risk involved."
"1. how many times do i have to say this? high sec is not a sanctuary.2. care to link the lossmails?3. by your logic, any pvp at criminally flags at all would void insurance. but if u wanted realism like that, insurance wouldn't exist on any ship. it might be to your liking as a carebear but then again, pvp is a major facet in eve so that's not gonna happen.4. so it's the ganker's fault some carebears r so stupid?5. and what about the fact that it's sci-fi? hmm? that's what i thought."
"1. and the pvpers r the consumers that keep eve fine and dandy running as well. it's not so much the carebears hate any form of pvp 'cause technically, they're competing against each other to get their items sold. it's 'cause they refuse to learn and do anything about being ganked themselves and just ***** to ccp to hold their hand.2. high sec is not a sanctuary.3. a newb wouldn't have 100 mil+ in assets. 'cause at that point, he should've already learned a thing or two, even if it's the hard way.4. it's an intended mechanic, with sec penalties imposed as its limitation. if u think it's so riskless, go ahead and try suicide ganking a newb ship. go ahead and keep doing it. then go rat to get back the sec status and see if it was worth it."
"suicide ganking is an art, but insurance shouldn't be paid to you if concord destroys your ship. if you initiate the attack in 0.0 and are still destroyed, yea, get your insurance, but if concord blows your stuff up, insurance should be dismissed."
"dominion 1.1 is out, tyrannis has been announced... and most afs still pretty much suck. so, le bump! ccp, please do the following:* perform an internal rebalancing within the class such that all afs can achieve similar utility to the jag and/or ishkur* add a fourth bonus, either as a role bonus for the whole class or new individual bonuses for each ship* consider reducing their masses/increasing their base speeds to match those of their t1 counterpartssome additional and more specific desires, in no particular order:* swap the jaguar's optimal bonus for tracking a la the rifter* increase fitting room on the wolf and hawk* extra mid on the enyo and retribution; in fact, an extra mid + fittings to use it would be a pretty good addition across the line, but it's near-essential on these two* fix rockets* bring back the ab boost, it was great :("
"did you read what i said? 75% range bonus and 7.5% damage bonus over the longest range high faction ammo, that's more range and more damage, against normal t1 ammo the damage advantage broadens to 35%, a very large bonus under any circumstances, but still less then the 68% damage advantage that invalidates half the t1 ammo types. if a 35% damage bonus and 15% range bonus over t1 isn't enough on top of the extra 2% damage per level applied to the gun isn't enough to be a 'reward' then we'll just have to disagree. all that said i wouldn't mind if t2 ammo remained as it was if there was a full set of t2 ammo at varying ranges like t1 which would at least allow range flexibility to not come at a terrible damage penalty.you said it yourself, iron does piddly damage and it isn't until dg iridium that you get equal damage to t2 after having lost 60% of the range bonus, on a rokh that's 75km of range where there's no benifit to switching up for shorter ranged ammo and that's only if you have some of that expensive and rare faction ammo on hand. for pure t1 ammo damage equal to spike lies someplace between lead and thorium after we've started to tread into negative range bonuses, broadening the distance where spike is the only one worth bringing to more then 100km. this is why the rokh's 'advantage' of being able to use 'higher damaging ammo' is utterly and completely laughable."
"i don't disagree with your numbers, but with the method. all balancing should be done around t1/ weapons/ammo since the existent differences already implemented in the ammo tiers/ ranges will take care of the scaling.my correction to spike ties directly with preventing the gallente ships becoming op, w/out restricting them to being subpar. to suggest modifyng more the ammo-wepon interaction needs more data, which i don't currently have. (that means fields data, from in game engagements and tactical scenarios used). until then, i suggest we keep the changes requested to an absolute minimum.thanks for your support though, as well as everyone else, it is after all an issue affecting 50% of eve pilots. in that light, why don't you poke corpmates and friends to come add that support? maybe even get some acknowledgment from csm too?"
"full support"
"yes please"
"there is always a player who puts wall of text with some vague unclear argument just for the sake of itthis is special type of troll who is stuck within his own imagination"
"supportedcurrent system is abomination"
"1.0"
"problem: you can not align to pre-set bookmarks you've made. how many times have you been in low/null sec or even at war in empire, and have went through the trouble of setting up a safe spot (a spot in random space that can not be warped to unless in fleet with someone at said destination, or having the bookmark, or being scanned out) and if your in a real pickle, you set up 2 or 3 or more. now when i'm in a combat situation, i like to be aligned to something at all times, so if they enemy warps in i can get out at any time, but if i get scanned out in my safe spot, i have to be aligned to a planet or station, etc. and the enemy can see where exactly i'm warping to, and can send the rest of the fleet to intercept. solution: make an \"align to\" option under the bookmark drop down tab. when you go over the planets, belts stations, and gates, you can easily align to those, and i understand that it's because it comes up in your overview, but why not be able to align to your safe spots? ideas and comments appreciatedadded: (meant to put in sooner, just didn't get to it) but also the ability to align to fleet members, invaluable in fleet warfare."
"nono commentary is necessary here."
"i know this has been proposed before, but i don't think it was ever raised, so i'll support."
"i dont live in a wormhole, nor ever have. nor can i fly a strategic cruiser, but i am one for common sense./signed, if i can assemble a ship from scratch at a pos, i can make some modifications to it if i like."
"/signed"
"i've run into this problem myself, made it very hard to switch from sleepers to combat effeciently, supported."
"i suppose a much more than here: capital jump effect"
"supported"
"agreed. thank god this world is not able to put money in--> and take money out irl. would really be some hel to pay."
"the wreck belongs to the person who was flying it and the corp they are in! how many times in how many different ways does it need to be said to you?this game mechanic is working as intended."
"ahhh ye, i will have to say i do not agree, if these things were to be changed for fairness sake then it should also be changed when i (we = others like me ) go into low sec for better npc loots and get pk'd just for being there.i may not be a privateer but if these things were changed where would a privateers' life be at or where would the opportunities go for those who may be considering a life of a privateer?being a privateer as we all know is the ultimate freedom so to speak, live it, love it, dream it, soar angelic, i have often heard this in local: \"if you are under war dec it is not a good idea to be running missions\",.... for example....; and if you are a privateer and complaining about someone ganking your stuff,.. well... its all in the life of the life.have fun, good luck, fly well, fly safe."
"/signed dust 514 pc version please."
"ye i play console too but im an onliner = psp ( playstation portable)(pc as well obviously)will, i wonder, it make it to the psp handheld with headset suport, ad hoc, infrastructure, single player, with uploadable/downloadable data/items/exp into the \"main\" core??; vice versa into the psp?? i hope so.although id much rather see it on the pc; an exclusive for the psp(as in not for the ds series or other \"handhelds series\") would be nice as well."
"there is no way to avoid being war decced 100% of the time. however, there are deterrents. first, you can hire mercs to counter dec your enemy. second, you can join an alliance for security. third, you can train up to use combat ships and fight back. fourth, you can take a vacation from eve and let the war dec reward the enemy in zero targets, zero fun, and some wasted isk(if you know what you are doing on the market this is actually not that bad).how you fight a war is up to you but you fight one everyday as soon as you log in."
"i sympathize with the op because i believe that there is something wrong when cowardly griefers -- and they are most definitely cowards or they'd be attacking someone of equal skill rather than shooting fish in a barrel by wardeccing newbs and industrialists -- can force people to not play the game that they are paying real world money for. i would like to have the ability to take revenge by being able to file some kind of mining-dec that would allow industrial players to declare a state of operations where members of the decced corp could undock only in mining barges, exhumers, industrials, freighters, ... so as to deny them their preferred activities -- which they pay real world money to engage in -- in the same way that a wardec denies industrialists the ability to engage in our preferred activities.as the op gains more experience he/she will clearly see that the people who post most vehemently about how eve is a pvp game are the ones who, rather than engaging in actual combat with equals, like to shoot fish in a barrel."
"corp is less then 3 weeks old and you expect people to have tons of money to throw away. also, as an mining corp if they cant mine they cant get money. so thats a great idea of paying merc corps."
"i can only see two reasons that would keep you from joining a 0.0 or lowsec alliance or corp (which would discourage people- although not prevent them from war'decing you).1.) you only want to mine.2.) you want to stay in safe- high sec.solution:join an npc corp. the only downside- you cannot have your own pos. but you can mine, without any more tax than if you were in your own corporation."
"war deccing is part of eve. would be pointless to war dec someone in 0.0 or low sec. eve is a cut throat style game. paying isk for concord to look the other way is just one of those risks.if your corp is only 3 weeks old and you get war decced, all you have to do is either surrender and find a corp that can back you (there are way too many corps now anyway), or you can stay docked and bore them to death./not supported"
"yes, that's how eve works. glad we're on the same page here."
"the whole point of a war dec is to allow you to shoot people in high sec. so no."
"war declarations in eve are darwin's law applied. got deced? man up and defend your corporation. if you can't, then you didn't deserve the corp to begin with."
"short answer: no.long answer: nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo."
"allow me to stress again my basic argument: there are people in eve who prefer to do combat, and there are those who prefer to do other things. both groups have every and equal rights to play eve the way they like to play it. but their interest conflict sometimes, and a lot of eve game mechanics is about balancing those interests. that is why we have high-sec, low-sec, null-sec, concord et all. eve has done a great job in that, but wardeccing is now upsetting the fine balance to much in favour of those who want to shoot others.and that is why the wardeccing mechanics needs changing, to bing back the balance."
"mimimimimimino!"
"makes war irrelevant, because it doesn't matter in who you attack in low/null sec >_> besides, this is where yet another career comes up, merc corps =) hire one with all the ore you mined ;)"
"speaking as a miner/industrialist no.either learn how to avoid people who want to shoot you, or learn to shoot back effectively."
"best reply so far and from csm too.yeah, keep posting in this thread, i see it going far... not really."
"and you are who?"
"i'd like to point out contrary to popular belief, high sec, even with concord, in a 1.0 sec system, is in fact, not safe.... simple as that, to prove this point, someone go suicide gank him to show that you don't even need war to be killed in high sec...."
"now it just seems that people who don't support this are the people who enjoy war deccing indy corps. the high sec pirate corps are just the ones that fail at low sec/null sec pvp and have to get their anger out on people who can't fight back."
"in most cases, yes, but what about an a-hole corp who keeps can flipping you indy guys in our corp? what then, they just sit there and steal your ores? or what if you just plain out right don't like them cuz they talk smack? or you got beef with em for a legit reason?"
"join an established alliance or corp. or just stay docked for a while."
"enjoying an iceland trip off of your sub money atm"
"once again we see the maturity and actual age of our csm at work.great job.*golf claps*now as to the op.first off let me appluad you for not going emo-rage-rant on your post... at least you where decent enough to be eloquent.secondly... not going to happen.i've been playing for about 2 years...if not more... and if there's one thing i've learned... war-dec'ing... as stupid and absolutely ridiculous as it is... mechanics wise... is not something that needs to be eliminated from the game.there are some very clear points i've learned from this war-dec'ing system.1: 80 to 99% of the war-dec's i've encountered are all done for the expressed purpose of greifing.not all are like that... there are some who target you to make an effort to nerf your logistics pipeline... such as 0.0 alliances or whs operations... yet they never really follow you.. they just station camp there asses off... pathetic.2: said greifers are typically cowards... they refuse to leave the safety of high sec and as soon as you step out side into low-sec or whs... they generally do not follow as they are now subject to getting shot at. this means they are geared to shoot down carebears and not other pvp'ers.3: war-decs only end when there killboard eff. goes down or they get bored. as such its never a matter of isk... and they tend to cheat the system by ending the war-dec and starting it up again to lower the rates when possible. war-decs as such are very cheap and cost literally nothing.only gets expensive if they are stacked (multiple war-decs on target) or its an alliance. and typically they won't go after an alliance unless its an soft target.4: war-decs as such do not serve any purpose other than to deal out easy kills and make it an overused excuse to say its pvp game only and that's that. funny enough the excuse to tell them to go npc doesn't work when you have suicide ganking at an all time high... imagine that.so yeah.... war-dec is broken... its frakked up... its abused... exploited... don't even get me started.so why do i not support this?because there are no other methods in taking action against harassment.so like it or not... its here to stay.you'll love this tho.imho... there is absolutely no reason what so ever to be a corporaiton in high sec space.seriously... its stupid.unless your pvp'ing.... manufactureing (and odds are most are solo corps) or strong enough/intimdating enough to keep out of trouble... you have no business being in a corporaiton or being a member of one if your going to be a carebear.you make just as much money (more in many cases) and do better in npc.teams can exsist outside of a corporation... a corporaiton is nothing more than a formality with some minor advantages...with mailing-lists... chat rooms... cheap hosting... you can get one put together with minimal effort.so sorry mate... you should join an alliance that's strong enough to deal with it... or move to 0.0 space.it doesn't remove the risk... but the rewards make up for it if your able to hold your own out here.if i end up going to high sec... i will not be in a corporation of any kind... that i can assure you. (unless i decide to join one that's strong enough to deal with the problem)eve is not pve online or pvp online... its eve online.don't let anyone tell you differently.so in conclusion... not supporting."
"dunno, how ccp is hiring their csms, but obviously they anre't aware of you no showing any kind of respect for the paying customer.luckily, you are only a csm not a dev, so it is not your call what happens and what doesn't happen.i'd advice ccp to do some quality selection ammong their csms."
"i will support your proposal if you amend it so that i can choose buy the stuff you sell at a price i think is fair as long as i dont make any stuff myself. you see it is not my playstyle to spend all my time making isk, and i dont see why you greedy miners and manufacturers should be allowed to grief me by gouging my wallet, forcing me to buy t2 ships and modules at far above the price i want to pay.sound fair?"
"csm are elected by the players... ccp doesn't do much else beyond that.malcanis - u mad?"
"well eve is rated for people to be at least 13 years old. if you can't handle a little smack talk in local then maybe you need to mature a little. many people i know just laugh off smack talk and try not to antagonize it. as for constant can flipping i can see that being a legit reason for a war dec, but not random can flipping one in awhile.what i think would be a good thing would be that each corp has to have a representative after a certain time period when the war is declared. then both sides would have to explain why or why not they should be able to have a war. the third party would be representing concord(dev). this person would listen to both sides and decide if there is cause for war in high sec. but of course, eve devs are lazy and probably wouldn't do this because then they would have to do actual work."
"you would be sooo dissapointed if you knew what happened today. also drake, being csm doesn<U+FFFD>t prevent me from laughing at stupid ideas."
"ye i agree on this. i am intaki and it would be nice to visit my homeworld(s) also it would be nice to do race specific missions in your homeworld(s).i fear at this point the only way i would be able to return home would be to join the syndicate (not that its a bad idea but it is the point that i cant return home without getting pk'd) so even though the syndicate (if i remember correctly) is outcast from the federation; i am outcast from my homeworld(s)."
"so what happens to anybody who has a pos already set up there? what about the 2 cadnium & 1 titanium moons there? will they still be mineable?how ridiculous would it look to have a hi sec system by itself in a low sec dead end constellation? i mean 4 jumps from the closest hi sec system? c'mon.not to mention this would set up a precedent for other systems to have pilots begging for being turned into hi sec. i love the idea of the intaki struggle in game, but if i'm correct they don't really want to be gallente all that much, so why would it matter if the gal's took that space back.you want to make it real interesting, open up luminaire so that caldari fw pilots can drop in cap ships to help out that titan.ax"
"tyrannisseems like our planetary interaction will be the next expansion. so last opportunity to fix 'the physics' of planets!"
"why not. more immersion is always good."
"support 100% this is a very good point."
"hey kids listen up!its a game! you are just a fat cola drinking zit faced kid playing a game on a pc your dad bought for you. whats the point in ccp spending ph.d time figuring out graphics for somehing that does not matter and you could not understand anyway. and no!ph.d is not short for pretty huge ****. listen to an educated guy (mba), just make it look good! and yes mba is short for married but available, in case that are any girls reading this."
"/signed with enthusiasmwonder ccp power activate and make this happen!"
"supported"
"sounds like a great idea."
"another yes idea from the pirate queen. this would be a major ui improvement. instead of gimping it for combat probes, you could make their scan take a few seconds longer than core probes."
"i'd kinda like to see this for all probes, mainly because attempting to move objects in 3d space using a 2d interface is all kinds of terrible. but the point that it might make probing ships too easy does need to be considered..."
"you would have to reduce the number of active probes to the number of probes in the saved config as the game cannot assume what probes you want to use, but yes, i think something like this should be done also. and while you're at it, ccp, if these ships are so advanced, how come autopilot can't fly closer to the gate or all the way to the place you want to go to in the destination system. oh, right, cause it provides for more drama if they stop at the gate.. hm, sandbox..."
"probing is already very efficient. one of the few measures to limit effciency is the limitations of the ui.i don't think its a good idea to have ui limitations govern game balance as is the case with probing currently, but without a better system removing those limitations would make probing far too efficient.a saved layout of probes would need to be coupled with limitations somehow. significantly longer scan times could be a way to do it."
"would love to see this happening yea! here with ya on this idea all the way mynx."
"yes pplease although i have a bad feeling that ccp won't do it, simply because it is in ther best interest to keep things tedious, if only you could get all the isk in the universe with onre click then we would not be playing this game right?"
"voted absolutely yes!!"
"no. i am the fastest scanner i have ever meet.why my rl skill should be no longer relevant ?"
"not only would make probing too easy (at this point just remove it and make the scanner able to point objects and ships...), it would also make macroprobers easy to program..."
"time flux detected you are going too fast! wait five minutes and try again lol;...anyway, agreed. i also agree with the macro probers (dint know that was a prob until now)it would save me much time while probing in low sec; not that i go there much anymore these days;.. but i would if this was possible."
"heh sure give them a slight repair amount buff..a couple things caused the current issues with active tanks though that just giving those ships a rep buff won't solve it...ccp borked the all you can eat nos... many an active tank was fueled by this in the day. this in and of itself wouldn't have been a killer for active tanks. ccp then added rigs. i love rigs... alot, but tbh the buffer rigs are just too damn effective. now with heat and boosters and implants there is a hint of hope for the active tank since heat a tank for a bit, pop a blue or exile and rock a hg crystal set and life can get pretty damn fun again for an active tank... till you run into a couple neuts...the bigger problem and why i get nervous with active tanks is it's damn hard to keep it in cap... in eve cap is life, without it you are toast (yes projectiles dun need it and buffer tanks don't either) but even with projectiles and buffer tanks i shut off your prop mod, web, point etc and you are a sitting duck.the kiss principle applies... the simplest and easiest way to pvp currently is to buffer tank it and have some rr handy.wall of text aside... make the change and add more % to the active tanking ships... but it's the cap that's the killer on them. treating a symptom not the disease"
"i think boosting armor/shield rep amount won't change anything...cyclone (600dps/600dps tank pvp-fit anyone?), myrmidon(triple rep 1k dps tank) and maelstrom (omg...got a friend that tanks 2k dps with it) are awesome tankers for solo/small engagements already. rep amounts incl. implants+boosters+heat w/o fleet booster. the problem lies within buffertanking, especially rigs (no stacking penalties, etc.).my suggestion is more about balancing rigs (e.g. introduce omni resist rigs, stacking penalize buffer amount rigs. rigs are designed to be less effective as t2 modules; but regenerative membrane for armor tanks has +15% as well. sorry, buffing rep/boost amount isn't the solution! let's work on the rigs!edit: i fly buffer tanked ships (abaddon/geddon, harbinger, absolution) as well as active tanked ships (myrmidon+cyclone)"
"definitely, pvp is so interactive and a broad spectrum of activities, mining consists of turning on lasers, filling up, emptying, rinse repeat. hopefully they'll add belts to be found soon rather than macros simply having free roam to kill belts everywhere. definitely supported to give another profession a new look. as far as the planet thing, i wouldn't consider that really \"mining\" wouldnt that be more a pos thing?"
"give mining the love it deserves."
"1) mining laser should have a cycle time of one second2) roids should be much smaller3) belts are moving through space (at like 50 m/s)4) there should be more suboretypes (like 5 or so, going up to 25% more mineral yield)combining all, mining would be like following: you have to constantly watch were your ship is moving, have to scan/watch for the good roids, relock roids more often, but don<U+FFFD>t loose any mining yield because of 1)."
"this ship would be a great addition to the ore fleet as it fills the role between the roqual and orca. high sec oppsorca perma boasts at the belt and acts as a gscthis beast picks up ore from orca and brings it to the station. low/null sec oppsroqual is at a pos grinding ore and providing boasts.this beast supports the fleet with it's rr and brings the ore to the roqual. win win as it's a skill intensive train for a very specialized role that needs to be filled. /signed~dia~"
"to be compleatly honest .... i would. as i have already trained two orca pilots, one for boasting and one for hauling. this would be a godsend/signededit: forgot to check support lol"
"ahhh ye i am all for a custom paint job now that i found this topic but what i was really after was this: if not the custom paint how about \"sort of\" custom decals ie: corp logos(banner) and alliance logos(banner) on ships."
"problem: ever noticed when your scanning a shadow on the plane of the system? ever sent your probes beneath this shadow and had your nice bright easy to see squares and arrows darkened because of this shadow? this shadow makes it hard to see what your trying to do when moving your probes around beneath this plane. solution: quite simply, take out the shadow from the plane. this would make it much easier to scan things out that are in the bottom half of systems that fall below this annoying thing, and personally i don't much see the point in it being there in the first place.or: an option to at least turn it off in the settings overview, as some people still like it for \"orientation\" purposes.third suggestion: (by popular demand =p) replace this black cloud with a simple and clear (and might i add much more useful) plane grid, more or less exactly like the tactical overview, but instead of showing km, show how many au it is from you. this would help players not only remember where they are, but also shows how far something is (useful for d scan) and much like tactical overview can be turned on an off with a simple button in the scanner box."
"not supported. it helps orientation and positioning probes. it's a good feature."
"agreed.its even worse on an old, crt monitor that is darker then it ought to be."
"then an option to turn it off in the settings, because i can see it being used for orientation, but in the bigger picture are you worried about where they are or where the things your scanning are?"
"/signed.a billion percent. it's rubbish ccp sort it out. forget the famn zephyr. forget making everything shiny. forget walking in stations - this issue is so damn overduie that eve online looks so stoooopid."
"definitely supported.i'd also like to add more variablity to the points of impact on the ship i'm shooting at, when i actually hit it - it looks kinda strange when my 8x800mm always hit the exactly same place on the opponent's ship"
"there are 1000 more relevant issues/problems with eve than cosmetics, but sure, fix it."
"i think it would be best to criminally flag just the attacking ship and make it undockable. if you flag the orca, then concord splodes it, it would become loot. then another orca can swoop in and people would then use higher isk ships probably like tengu's or something fitted to make the orca look cheap. then they'd get the ship from the loot, and fly off to exploit again. which would then bring us back here. if a ship is flagged to concord, it should not be able to dock anywhere."
"sorry i was too lazy to read everything (most of it) but i blindly agree on the defender missiles because i have seen in local(s) chat that defender missiles are useless because you have to target the ship firing the missiles and have to target the incoming missiles and time the incoming from looking at the ship launching and timing it correctly,.. i agree the defenders should work as fof for other missiles,... make them worth their one and only tier, make them worth the bpo its printed on, make them worth the isk for me to manufacture and sell(eh im running with it)have fun, good luck."
"yes, make them work."
"yes fix em"
"i'm sure at some level in the brain of the person who thought this out it made sense, but i've lost count on how many people i've reported as isk spammers, blocked or kicked from fleet instead of warping to, just because that button is lost in the multitude of other buttons. this buttons are supposed to be the last resort, not to be pressed by accident, so why are they in the middle of the buttons that are used very often ?i propose they are moved to a bottom most group, if more than 1 option of this type is available, they are to be grouped and this entire group must be separated by at least 1 blank space, so mistakes by the need to act fast do not happen again. if anything i bet this will take some load off your gm's since i'm sure some people have been reported as isk spammers erroneously - i know i've reported some."
"yes, i want to support this change, since the current system is full of fail."
"yes, and make reporting and isk spammer only available from local."
"so, if you can only use the \"report isk spammer\" option from local, how will people be able to deal with isk sellers spamming in other public channels?at the very least though, the option needs to be removed when you're clicking in a non-publically accessable channel (corp chat, alliance chat, fleet etc.). should also remove the ability to report yourself for isk spamming as having that option when you right click on yourself in any channel seems very strange.failing that, the op's idea would be a decent compromise making it harder to accidentally report someone without making it harder to report someone you genuinely want to report."
"yeah, they really need to be blocked off. also cancelling market orders, and anything else that's severe without a confirmation window."
"i have become aware that caldari storyline agents do not offer fw missions to lead mission-runners out into lowsec to take part in factional warfare.every caldari courier-mission runner should be given the opportunity to help maintain control of the black rise regions, just as their gallente counterparts do. i find it ludicrous that my r&d alt who can only fly a shuttle is offered missions to take out dozens of battleships and structures, while caldari navy mission runners who have highly developed combat piloting skiills are denied this wonderful opportunity."
"you saw this thread?the gallente mission runners arent exactly happy with those storylines."
"just because i like the way it looks:procurer as a \"given\" noob mining vessel able to fit mining lasers and still able to fit strip miner when skilled up.more slots(not many)for:armor tankgunsbatteries(for those long warps) or more capacitordefensive vessel for rets and covies (protector of the standard barges; lol ye a small fighter produced by ore)or bpo able to be researched to bring it all the way up to a t3(small mining op miner/fighter/drone) with some decent little \"extras\".roid scout ship (cloak capabilities for scouting roids in low secs; able to stay cloaked while surveying roids;.. not available as a drone.)make it able to be flown as a drone option (skills needed of course) for ore/ice/cloud harvesting:make it able to fly as a drone into other systems to mine (might be a small alternative to the bot miners for those who do not run bot scripts)you could just pull up the map or get a readout much like the survey or on board scanner; [which may be more viable without having to revamp anything much] and zoom into the system to see where the belts are and stations in order to command it to mine what and dock where(can use your trading skills to sell for best prices from the procurer drone, but not able to refine just sell raw ore) providing there is a probe or sattelite launched into that system.... or by bookmarks.(snoring deeply)*moaning/grunting/talking in sleep*mommy!oh wow you wouldn't believe the dream i just had,... man i need a vacation from these long mining ops.;... time to get some r&r.i'm going planetside;.. i have been too long out in space.have fun, good luck, fly well, fly safe.salute!there is a luminous glow just over the horizon."
"the procurer is a mining barge.... that's it...the only thing i would even dare suggest is to put gas mining bonuses on it and allow gas strip miners to be built.anything more would be overshadowing its tech 2 cousin the skiff.but sorry to say... your idea is utterly ridiculous.no offense of course."
"idea? lol i hear ya,.. as the topic post says procurer \"fantasies\",..just thought i'd throw some humor in here. was in no way meant to be an idea \"suggestion\" sorry that was not made clear until now.(as can be seen i did not suport my \"fantasy\")no offense taken."
"lol...by default we tend to assume anyone posting here is trying to propose or point out an issue to the csm.jokes/humor in that light tend to get treated like spam by the forum mods.:)"
"ahh ok thnx for letting me know that.so it is not looked at as spam lets put this one up there for a suggestion, ridicule,debate,and flames;...i'll run with it."
"just a thought, but gankers know what they are getting when they suicide a ship. what if the ship had some type of decoy device to lure suicide gankers. bring the balance of being ganked back to both sides. as it stands now, ships can be scanned pretty much at will with no defense against it. ganking is a profession, which i understand and respect, however, bring it more on a level playing field? if a suicide ganker scans a ship, he may have to think twice about his risk vs reward if a ship is equipped with a decoy mod/rig. it could lessen the defense of the ship and make it more gankable but then it is a different type of defense if the ship is empty yet the scan is showing something of value that isn't there. it would however not take any items on the ship off the scan list either. suicide ganking is about risk and reward, if they definitely know what you have, makes it kinda unfair if you have no defense against a cargo scan. insurance is a whole other ball game i hope is resolved, but currently, there is no defense against cargo scans with a passive targeter."
"actually, there is a defence against being scanned. two, actually. one, small, fast ships can't be scanned, because they warp before anyone can lock them - covops are perfect for this. two, the corp hangar bay on an orca(or carrier/rorq/mom/titan, but those are presumably far less practical for you) doesn't show on a cargo scanner, so anything you carry in there is invisible. hope that helps."
"if i am preparing a stealth attack, i whant to get the best ammo type for the job. should i not be able to?"
"what?we have a hard enough time with afk cloaking rants and now you want to compound the problem by making it even more powerful?no... not gonna happen.be happy you can do what your able to do already with a cloak."
"warp to deep safedrop cloakload desired ammorecloakwarp back to targetwoot?"
"not supported. you already got so many advantages, you dont need more."
"i am unpleasantly surprised by complete absence of contructive critics, and by how personal the responces are. i fail to see any connection between switching ammo for an ambush and afk-cloacking. these two things are utteraly irrelevant to each-other. i really whant to know how being able to switch ammo will make afk-cloacking overpowered. how are these things relevant??i get the impression everyone believes that switching for right type of ammo is going to make cloacker solopwnmobiles or something. and it espeshially surprises me when compared to how generally positive responce in csm publick was. \i get am impression here i am asking for something personally for myself. so far all i heard is \"cloakcing is powerfull enough, (yeah, it does what it's suppose to do, hides your ship) and therefore you should not be able to switch ammo, because we are all upset about afk cloackers\" i see alot of logic here."
"i don't see any reason to think that this would have much of an effect on the game. thing is, ccp wants cloaking to prevent you from doing anything useful with your ship except moving, and while i'm sure you could add in some cloaked function(like ammo switching) without breaking anything, they don't want to add in so much function that they inadvertently let people do something meaningful while cloaked. they could micromanage it, but they'd probably much prefer to just keep it a blanket ban and not need to think about it. i don't think there'd be anything bad about the idea were it to be implemented. but i don't see any obvious need, and i don't expect ccp to like it. i'm not opposed, but i don't think i can really support it."
"in wwii there were these ship called destroyers who's job was to find submarines.why not take the salvage king desstroyers and make them something like a usefull ship again. give them a mod that won't allow a cloak in say 40 km. this will make a steath bomber hunter. this will stop people from complaining that there are afk cloakers messing up their game etc. the stealth bombers would still have the sneak attack but there would have to be a balance other than the tissue thin effect on the bomber."
"destroyers are very useful in pvp.they especially excel at killing frigates. did you notice that stealth bombers are frigates?all in all ... not supported."
"how about an escort type ..... some sort of interference field that wont allow cloaking for say 30-35 k???i cant remeber the last time i saw a destroyer in a gang in 0.0........"
"not supported."
"i see plenty destroyer class ships in 0.0 fleets. or you travel without interdictors?"
"heavy interdictors yes interdictors are tooo expensive for the little gain to have \"for killing frigates\" but the main point of the cloak hunting ship is to counter cloaking ships that are too overbalanced i have seen some of your postings and you seem to have some decent ideas. you are a smart \"kid\" but instead of all the critiquing that says blah blah im superior give some more \"helpfull\" advice/solutionsbtw where have you been i havent seen an interdictor flown in fleet as an active participant in years they normally drop bubble and leave......not as active as i would like no?anyone can armchair coach son get in the game afk cloaking is a problem and there are no viable solutions for it....... no ship should be invulnerable...... or why the heck fly anything else?give me a cloaky superjamming viator that does a billion damage per volley. hey im up for it.so as a serious challenge there use that rapier wit and come with a better solution for this issue that there are god knows how many posts trying. be part of the solution or part of the dang problem?"
"o_oyou fly in very strange fleets. anyway ... the cloaking is fine. if your system gets to a standstill from a single cloaker in system, you have a problem and it is not the cloaker.we had that in our system for the first few days aswell. havent seen him for quite a while since they cant get hot drops anymore.grow some balls. no need to nerf cloaker more."
"i've seen interdiction ships on killboards... which means the are used...i've seen fc's suggest and recommend there use in several different situations.if you've not seen them... doesn't mean they aren't in use."
"thanks drake i hear you but they arent very much usedand darious anything else????....... you have made your point.... seen all your posts you have loads of info and you are the greatest...... now anyone with actual ideas ?"
"you need to search the other *cough*cloak posts and understand that this is a massive argument that will never end or resolve.hence why we refuse to support any buffs or nerfs on said subject. (well except one... i want cov-ops on black ops just because the very definition of said ship class infers cov-ops and it would make them more popular than just expensive \"nich\" ships)interdiciton ships concidently are used for small gang warfare due to the destroyer aspect...that and the bubbles are detached...they don't get used to often as destroyers as a general rule of thumb aren't too popular in 0.0 due to it being cap-heavy and down to bc's...you don't see frigate gangs very often."
"this should be a quick code impliment but with my manufacturing i am constantly getting annoyed with the fact you cannot stack assets from deliveries with the assets you have or recombine assets after splitting. just a thought but it would be handy,~blood~"
"hi allfirst off: in this thread please do not whine about the profitability of lvl 4s. go do them if you think is so good. this is not about increasing the profitability of missions! trust in ccp to strike the isk reward balance! with that out if the way:while lvl 4 are simply too easy for many the jump to lvl 5 is huge. the reward is bigger but the increase in risk goes from 0 to high.what is needed is lvl 4,5 agents. the isk/hour ratio could easily be kept the same as in lvl 4s, but it would increase the fun a lot if skilled mission runners could get harder missions. its afk once u get a good fit. that is just too boring. this is a cry to make empire missions fun again ....please"
"just try smaller ships if you want fun in missions again. i just started using sacris for missions. pure fun."
"if you want to make missions fun again, rip out the entire structure that they have now and replace it. static, dumb-ai, no-surprise missions are going to suck pretty much no matter how difficult they are."
"i for one, am sick and tired of selling my stuff one item at a time! sometime i have a ton of stuff that has more value being dumped on the market, but its a stupefying chore to sell it.omg some help please :)"
"in regards to the 2nd poster:you can also attempt to become friendly with or \"rent space from\" one of the larger 0.0 alliances. a large number of 0.0 alliances have an extremely low population density. meaning, there is a lot of \"claimed space\" that is not being used at all.be warned: most alliances that you rent from will put you as a 'buffer' between themselves and their enemies. although they will often defend their/ your sovereignty (depending on your arrangements), they will usually not protect you from roaming gangs."
"so long as you can hop across a region with only a couple of jumps, no space will be too far away from rent seeking warmongers. the only really useful means of reducing the effective sphere of influence of the larger 0.0 entities is curtailing their ability to gallivant around the universe at will without leaving their home space undefended. reducing the jump range of ships, shortening the titan bridging range and cutting the jump bridge structure entirely out of the game, would go a long way towards bringing back the older, more fragmented space of years prior."
"completely disagree. adding space will only band-aid the problem, the existing superpowers will still have the ability to just steamroll through it in the name of \"good fights\".the real solution is to nerf all forms of long distance travel to the point where it will become too much effort for people to jump across the galaxy anymore. that way, a newer/smaller alliance can still try to take a small corner of 0.0 and only have to worry about being curbstomped by a fraction of the map instead of the entire map./ben"
"this does not stop larger alliances from steamrolling smaller ones. larger alliances will arbitrarily capture systems they never use just for the sake of it."
"+1 from mein a sense eve to small , but its not because of to low amout of systems , its becuase logistics are to easy."
"also think about the fact of the placement of the systems. ccp, if they did add these systems could not just put them in the midst of current null sec, but would have to expand it out further. where would the current \"huge\" alliances take? the ones closest to empire, because that's where you sell everything and buy everything. so not only will smaller alliances have to go even further, it would be through more hostile space, and more often than not, your hard work, salvage and loot will all be confiscated by large greedy alliances and the only real way to get it back relatively safe would be jump freighters. this would also create a massive imbalance between empire and outlaw space, so you would also have to add new space to this region as well."
"wrong. from the outside it may look that way. many are station systems and require sov. many have jump bridges, cyno gens, or now with dominion are 'developed'. in some cases they are strategic (49u, hed, ec-p8r, bwf, etc.)and 0.0 has never been \"more fragmented\"...wtf was the poster that said it was thinking? i remember ascn holding the entire southeast, d2(g) the north, razor/iron, bob, red alliance- all owning multiple regions. or go back even further to xetic/5/ca/pa...."
"space is an unforgiving place (skill up or stay in high sec, like me atm) so i would have to disagree with adding more space until we become so overpopulated that there is absolutely no where to go or until we get to a point of a total standoff where either or all sides can no longer conquer anything at all."
"if you want space get out there and fight for it like everyone else."
"i can't believe he realy post it hereplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.i mean, it's totaly crap! unbalanced and would all highsec lvl 4 mission runners allow to earn more \"risk free\" iskies with more afk mission running. even that noone would realy try to gank such a ship. if you want to make your lvl 4's within a time of afk, use an dominix or if you have the iskies maybe an navy domi for such. want to get a new shipclass for beeing faster in lvl 4's without looking on the balance in eve cannot be described.regards,lantiane"
"this idea is fabulous!you are fabulous!this whole thread is fabulous!"
"phail... what you suggested is an obese dominix -.- that's not even a good drone bay! if your gonna lol atleast make it something fun =pno support"
"i'm a fellow carebear =)but l5's should be extremely difficult with their payouts. thus being said, if you want to make a ton of isk, do it in low sec. l1's - l4's already have a risk of ninja salvagers we gotta watch for. l5's should add more risk by putting you in more harms way. just as miners have to do for better ore.not supported."
"level 5 missions are supposed to be higher risk due to their higher rewards. they were also invented to try to make you go to low sec. so no."
"eve is not highsec. eve is highsec+lowsec+0.0. if you wanna stick to only 1/3 of the content, you only get 1/3 of the missions.never heard of a wow-player that complains about not getting epic items at noob agents."
"please lock"
"see devblog. there will be a lot more carebear stuff soon, it just won<U+FFFD>t be in highsec."
"particularly the carrier part, where are these beasts not allowed? high sec. people regularly send in carriers to do l5s and is one of the reasons that they are where they are, which is able to be accessed by these behemoths. and also, if you think you can solo a l5, what are you scared of in low sec?"
"draclira<U+FFFD>s modified cap recharger bpo? i see absolutely no way how that could bite you in the arse. maybe distribute them with some sort of lottery system to give everyone a fair chance?"
"you guys are all wrong, this guy is on to something!"
"csm issues take several months to be resolved. i assume you want an answer far before then. make up a petition - it may seem slow, but it's far, far faster than the csm will be."
"if this was trackable (like something viewable in bio or corp history)... /supportedif no tracking and only a way for people to scam/steal and then pay ccp to cover their tracks... /not supported"
"thats like asking if the seasons will change. it's practically impossible for them to not change, it is also nearly impossible to predict exactly when they will change."
"pretty much this.sometimes i block invites when in a fleet or teaching a class. i have the option to turn it off afterwards. this doesn't mean i'm soloing, it just means i am joining a corp fleet etc and don't want to be disturbed by random people.options are good."
"i think that there might be a field under petition for this. the only reason that isk spamming has a special function is that it also blocks you from any communications with that pilot. your motive is awesome, but i think it is already covered in game. redundancy is bad. the only reason i would see this to be raised as a change is if you added some other feature that worked in tandem to kill those damn macro miners!edit i just checked - there does not seem to be a category for this under petitions. as such, i retract my previous statement, and say, \"onwards to assembly hall!\""
"proposals need to go into the assembly forum section where people can support it. you can throw ideas around in here but they cannot be taken forward until an assembly forum post has been made.i'm not sure at the moment what issues being able to hack open a secure can would have, but as far as giving you the password i would be totally against that."
"they aren't npc goods for no reason, you know? its one of the few isk sinks that are left in eve. keep it!"
"if they can make them player manufactured whilst moving the isk sink to a different level of the production line then i see no problem with it."
"this is not the case, the figure is 25% not 25 supports.from the csm dev blogwe have to work within this framework.your best bet is to get the support of a csm rep directly."
"sure,but first you have to actually do something to earn it."
"we did, and you won<U+FFFD>t like it, can we have your stuff now?"
"yes, but you won't like it. you have to collect it in starfleet energy credits and merits."
"that<U+FFFD>s ok my uncle deals in antiques"
"pleaseeeeeeeeeeeeee"
"i blindly without reading the first post link support this because (and i know i make refs to x3) but even stations/pos(eve) bought there look like stations."
"yes, please sooner than later. infinitely more important than ambulatory chars, imho.."
"bump, cause i can."
"i do not support a 10% boost to all caldari railboats. there is zero reason the rokh should have more pg than the hyperion (and only 325 less than the abaddon). pg increases should be case by case.i do however support a railgun damage boost so i'll give an overall thumbs up."
"i checked through the threads of all past csm cases, and didn't see it, figured if it was worst case i'd close it, if not then i still like the idea ;)"
"there was a thread here proposing that bm's be visible/selectable on your overview which would go well with this.edit: found it:"
"yes please.the same proposal is part of the bag of improvements to bookmarks proposed by luminus aardokay here:"
"supported for sure!"
"well.. yeah."
"use the sun noobs!oh well kk yea align bookmarks please."
"would love to see this implemented."
"just in case ccp throws that one out due to all the other proposals, we can atleast get this one ;) although it did look good"
"yes please!"
"yes.this is a desirable addition to an overall improvement of bookmark functionality."
"i just like bumping this thread every now and then solely because i know it gets your panties in a bunch ... enjoy btw: is your alliance relevant anymore ? ... just sayin'"
"i don't know how you want to tell whether i would be disappointed about some toony boony super secret going on or not. however i *do* know, that ccp should rework their csm system. and i *do* know that you are not a ccp related dev.however, whether something is a stupid idea or not is not your call to judge. everyone is entitled to his/her opinion, at least in the free world. i surely hope you are living in the free world, don't you? your opinion regarding a certain topic might differ, but that does not make your opinion better or \"more true\". i think, we understand, hm??? it's a pain in the ass for a 2 week old corp to get war decced by some 12 year old griefer with real life problems."
"didn't say you couldn't... or could.just saying... nice image to project to the people...not very bright."
"i'll sell you some ammo - i'm sure we can come to an agreement on the price. unfortunately, it's not an opinion, it's a fact. this is a craptastical (albeit well worded) proposal.first, and this is the important part, no one except the mentally deficient thinks the war dec system is perfect. it's hopelessly defective, and so broken that it should be replaced with something else. that said...war is a non-consensual activity. i doubt very much that the germans (yes i went there) sent a nicely worded note to paris asking, if it wouldn't be too awful much bother, if the french would mind terribly if they invaded and conquered their country. i'm sure the french fell all over themselves saying \"oh by all means help yourself.\"a three week old corp has exactly the same tactics available to it as a three year old corp when it comes to dealing with a wardec. fight back, run away, hide.fighting back has obvious downsides in that you might get your ship asploded. it happens. buy a bunch of cheap t1 frigates, insure them, fit them with meta 0 modules, and go give them hell. you might lose a few hundred isk per ship. and hell, you might just win a fight or two.running away is actually pretty simple, especially for a small corp. let them camp your headquarters and go mine on the other side of the cluster.hiding is just like running away except you don't undock. eventually people get tired of paying to shoot at people they can't shoot at and they go away. this is especially true of griefer wardecs. we actually had someone cancel a war on our corp once because we were, and i quote, \"the most boring war targets ever\"."
"while i am agreed that the entire wardeclaration system needs a revamp, i am solidly against removing them to 'mutual only' status.what is needed is a way for the declaring corp to put 'demands' into the declaration clause that the declared party can choose to meet, or counter. then they can duke it out just as they do now.once the demands are met, however, the war should end in a very short time (30 mins)."
"um not really. i'm in a corp that doesn't do this and i don't support this silly idea. reason being: it's a silly idea.although if i was in a corp that did wardec indy corps i would still have to say i don't support this idea. again though, its simply because it's a bad one."
"point on the doll where the wardec touched you"
"the simplest way to stop weak helpless newbie corps being griefed by wardecs is to stop there being so many weak helpless newbie corps.people complain about being \"griefed\". the real griefers are the ones who trick new players in to joining weak, useless corps that cannot possibly protect them.you create a corp, then you raise a flag and declare you're ready to play with the big boys. if you're not ready to do that, you're not ready to create a corp.increase the corp creation fee to 100m isk and change the skill requirement to create one to corporation management 5. problem is 90% solved overnight. running a corp is not a newbie activity in eve (or in rl)"
"look up my kills anywhere and i dare you to say that again.you are aware csm are democratically selected by the players without ccp interference, right?"
"i believe you need an office rented in order to be wardec'd ,.. dont you? .. im unsure of this,.. or can they click your corp banner and select \"go to war\" or something of that nature? if not then dont rent an office, after all an office is not really needed, really it isn't. but having one just makes things a bit easier for you and your corpies ummm without of course the war dec thing. its just easier to get on a \"good\" side with some mercs (isk talks and dead pilots dont fly for a few;.. depending on how long you want them to \"pay\")"
"...the amount of people...*sigh* in order to wardec someone you open up a vote, do a search for the corpname, and hit apply. done. there's no need for offices."
"ahhh thank you for enlightening me."
"*sigh* in order to wardec someone you open up a vote, do a search for the corpname, and hit apply. done. there's no need for offices.that is why war needs to be changed, it is to easy to declare war on smaller corps just to get free kills. now some people say you shouldn't form a corp that can't defend itself. in other words they say they do not want any new corps forming, since most new corps, unless made by people who started playing early on, are newer people. people just make up excuses why its good to have war so they can take advantage of it. it seems like wars are also to prevent newer people from experiencing the better parts of eve, even in high sec. now people will continue to say that war is needed but to be honest, less then 1% of wars is actually needed. so why not just make it harder to make a war. having a third party representing concord to determine if the war is just."
"actually that's pretty much our only job. we are a filter for bad ideas and to push the good ideas to ccp based on our judgement and experience. your idea is terrible.if you and your friends can<U+FFFD>t handle losing concord protection against someone who still wets the bed it<U+FFFD>s not csm<U+FFFD>s problem or ccp<U+FFFD>s problem."
"no, it's not a pain in the ass. harden up and fight back. yes it's unfair but that's what eve is about. high second is safer, it is not meant to be safe.if you want help with griefers hire mercs. many are new and will work for dirt cheap.as to your comments about sok, you might want to spend more time with the eve community to see what he's done for newer players (such as yourself), the advice he's given, the time he's put on the test server (including lending out supercaps) and the issues he's pushed forward through the csm.because so far you're just embarrassing yourself."
"isn't that what i said already twice now? lolin any event i'd like to also point out, yes, csm are voted, your fault for not casting votes -.- third point, life isn't fair, neither is virtual life >_> plain and simplemy case point is this thread has become one big trolling fest, completely derailed from original intended point, has failed, to many accounts, and should probably be ended already, tired of it seeing the top of the list and getting attention for stupid ****ing contests, everyone grow up and just go kill each other in game -.-"
"the original purpose of this thread was to propose some way for new high sec, non-combat focus corps to avoid being griefed by people who have rl problems. but for some reason people keep drfting away from the topic. maybe besides this problem we can get something passed to ban people who go on rants comletely off topic.a for an idea to help top useless wardecing, not the ons thatare legit, we should have concord(dev) be ahird party nd speak to a representative of both corps/alliances. then they can explain why they want a war. and reasons can be checked to make sure its true.ps: if can flipping was a concord offence, no pirates would have ships in high sec."
"three jumps, actually.stacmon (high sec) - ostingele - agoze - intakiand it'd be as ridiculous as, for example, the actee system, which is also part of a high sec island 3 jumps from the next section of high sec space.actee (high sec) - heydieles - old man star - villore (high sec)oractee (high sec) - heydieles - yvangier - charmerout (high sec)beyond actee there's a dead end branch consisting of a single high sec system (amane) and a low sec system (estaunitte) at the end of the branch.there's also the serpent's coil high sec island section between ostingele and aubenall.so, plenty of precident for the formation of a high sec island just going by current geography in the nearby area.-----i'd say in regard to the moons in question that they'd be grandfathered in. no new operations would be possible but any moon miners currently anchored would continue to operate as normal until unanchored/destroyed by hostile action.-----you're also wrong about the intaki not wanting to be a part of the federation. most of the sources so far portray the seperatist movement as being a very vocal minority. there's a lot more intaki either in the pro federation camp, or the \"really don't care either way\" camp"
"amarr homeworld: 1.0minmatar homeworld: 1.0caldari homeworld: 1.0gallente homeworld: 0.1how does this make sense?"
"supported, the intaki it would be good from an story point of view to make these high secure system. it would even make sense as a pr coup of president roden to win the votes of the federation intaki and weaken caldari and syndicate influence on them."
"supported"
"/notsignedthe only way i could support this is if the gallente militia take the intaki system back and hold it for a certain amount of time.in fact, let the reverse be true: if the caldari militia get back in the game and take some systems and hold them, they should become caldari sovereignty systems. if they hold them even longer, their sec status should go up. and vice-versa.probably won't happen, but i can always dream."
"i support it being converted into a high-sec system as long as a good story-arc supports said change.however take into consideration a completely isolated high-sec like that would be illogical too, so perhaps re-routing some stargates and connecting intaki to stacmon or something similar might be viable."
"i thought the intaki sympathised with caldari, at least more than other gallente.but yes, i think it should be removed from a fw conquerable zone but still made lowsec. the gallente fleets would assemble if it was ever under real threat."
"while i'm willing to admit, that maybe a few exotic dancers are not in fact prostitutes. i'm not so naive as to believe that their title \"exotic dancers\" is actually in reference to what they do, more than just a fancy name to cover up the ugly (or beautiful truth) of what it is they really do.a recent contract search for prostitutes revealed that there were only 2 available for sale in all of new eden, and that each was valued at 75 million isk. while i can't deny that they may be worth that much, i can however tell you a fascinating story about a bachelor party at the intaki v station and just what a couple of thousand isk will get you in the backroom form a so called exotic dancer.so my friend i ask... is my proposal flawed, or does death just reveal the true nature of the exotic dancer?ax"
"immersion. if this would be fairytale setting with flying castles and magic it would not matter a lot. but it is not. in eve star systems are supposed to be 'real' in the sense that planets with those parameters can have stable orbits in those positions they have. guy who coded it had phd in chaos physics if i remember correct. it might not matter for someone with only master of business administration (if i understand correct your mba). but it does matter to some people with education in the field of hard science. by the way - wiggling around with degree in forums is thin ice. for example i happen to have msc in physics and are in my last year of phd studies (and i must also admit that nature has been gentle enough for me so your statement about what it is not might be also incorrect )."
"pretty good idea, i'll give it a thumbs."
"im definiately all for this, it gets annoying as sin to sit and reconfigure probes for basic patterns!"
"supported, manually moving them is especially annoying when you grab the wrong thing and it re-centers it's focus on the screen or you change the size of a bubble, or accidently make the probe go 20 au down instead of across (you all know what i'm talking about.)"
"learn to scan. not supported."
"cause scanning isn't easy enough already"
"this is good idea."
"there are two old men, who to get to work by catching the first tram in the mornings and then walking a mile down an old cobbled path.both of the men work in the same factory and earn the same wage but one of the old men has no wife or family to suport and so wears nice new shoes, the other has a wife and three children and so can't afford new shoes so therefore his shoes are a bit worn out.every day they both head off to work the same time because they must catch the first tram of the day. after the tram however the man with the nice shoes always makes it to work quicker than the one without and so has become the favourite of the boss. one day the old married man complained to his wife about how his feet hurt from the cobbled stone and that he will not get a promotion because the other man beats him to work every day.the mans wife then thinks to herself that if she complained to the council and has the path repaired then her husband wouldn't have as sore a feetand then will get to work like the man with nice shoes.after a bit of campaigning, the council bitumen sealed the path and it was nice and easy to walk on. the poor man was pleased and walked down the path quickly.sadly however the man with the nice shoes, without having to walk carefully, instead jogged to work because the path was so very easy on the feet.the man with old shoes ofcourse couldn't jog and was just a behind the man with the new shoes as he was before.the moral of the story is that sometimes, fixing something to make it better for one, will often make it better for all and give you no advantage at all."
"supported"
"plus 10% is way easier to calc than 7.5% like, who the hell can add that after 3-4 skill levels? -.-"
"supported"
"yes, that stick needs to be poked at ccp. even saying they're not doing anyting much atm would be better than the deafening silence."
"i fully support this idea. it does not infringe on freighters/jfs and seems to fulfill a sorely needed role"
"anouther question of design would be which rr's would be given to it ? this should be a sub capital ship so normal rr's should be used. maybe tie in a boast to barge sheilds to bring them in line with cruisers and make hulks in line with either battlecruisers or tier 1 battleships. this would satisfy quite a few people. on this ship's design i think the ehp should be around 250k but not on sheilds and armor. give it a similar tank to the orca and similar structure hp as the orca. keep the sheilds in line with a battleship. marry this ship with a boast to barges and exhumers and miners will rejoice around the world."
"i support this idea"
"this."
"why do obstructive shadows when a faint grid would suffice. i never figured out the reasoning behind it."
"invert your view (not sure how to explain exactly)but if you look at it upside down you can probe just fine"
"supported.not need shadow, just the scanning harder than."
"i tried that, but it's still not quite as easy, as you can not get directly under it, as you can on the top, plus why should us lazy people recalibrate our methods? =p"
"pretty much sums up the op\"please make an already easy game mechanic even easier because it has a minor instance of difficulty and i am too lazy to work around it\""
"in my defence i'm apparently not the only lazy one ;) support ftw"
"yes, this is exactly right. why should the game be any more annoying than it has to be?"
"change shader setting to high and thank ccp for removing medium."
"good lord yes... nothing as annoying as getting rocked and splashed by missiles that are fired from so far away they shouldn't even reach your ship.or, even worse, being 'hit' (visually) by missiles that are hitting someone else on the grid sometimes tens or hundreds of km away."
"yea, but right now ccp is focusing their efforts on cosmetics just as much if not more so than actual game play."
"here you go sokratesz: sorry it took me so long to get around to revise it. please let me know what you think either in game or here!!!formal bounty hunter system change proposal for csmwhat is a spaceship/sci-fi game without bounty hunting???purpose: to create a working and less exploitable bounty system that is not so much designed to hurt pirates/gankers/griefers as it is to introduce a thrilling new career into the game for those who like to play the hunter!the current exploit, of course, being the ability for a player to undock in an insured ship with a clone without implants and get a corp mate or alt to pod the character and split or gift the bounty to the wanted player.changes:no change to the system of placing bounties (if less than -2.0 sec status, any player can place or add to the bounty) however bounties can only be collected by those with \"bounty kill rights.\" (like normal kill rights- dont result in a concord response)\"bounty kill rights\" are obtained by bounty office agents, when you start a conversation with these agents you are assigned 3 random online targets within say 20 jumps. standings are gained with these agents similar to normal agents. bounty agents have level 1,2,3,4,5 agents. level 1 agents assign targets with bounties up2 10mil isklevel 2 up2 50mil isklevel 3 up2 100mil isklevel 4 100mil to 250mil isk level 5 250mil + ....or something similar- this is just an example.the only change to the system of placing bounties would be a minimum initial bounty (say 100k or 1m) so that people would not just spam bounties on players and so even lv1 bounty hunters receive a sufficient reward. there is the potential for a skill to exist bounty hunting which must be trained before bounty missions can be accepted.... if this skill was made quite expensive (5 to 30 mil) this would hopefully limit the number of n00b alts out there who can pop their main character and send back the reward.the target is not made aware of when someone receives bounty rights to kill them.the idea of the 20 jump or similar range is that the target is close enough, but not too close as that would make the system exploitable... ie bring your character to a quiet area and know that you will be contracted to kill your character with your alt because no other wanted players are around. for this reason the bounty office should also be closed during and an hour after downtime or any server reboot  when there are very few people online.sure, maybe you will get your alt as a target from time to time but at least this system wont always be exploited.this may not be the best system but as far as i can tell it seems to be the least exploitable so far... and thats the real problem at the moment. i would also again like to stress the point that a player must have a sec status of -2.0 or less to have a bounty placed on them. thank you and kind regards dmac88"
"yep i play assassin,bounty hunter, smuggler in another world (ye should know which one by now, lol)absolutely witout a doubt thumbs up!!!"
"maybe players can submit contracts to the officers that will then be placed out to the public, but this will cost much more isk, to a: create said contract, and b: place a worthwhile bounty. this could possibly negate the utter spam of them, and maybe have it decriminalized to attack people with bounty, so concord doesn't pop you, because you \"bought\" kill rights?"
"change this trick/exploit in the game.all ship unscanable if signature radius/sensor strength reach < 1.08."
"why? you give up so much other aspects of your ship.also someone claimed they are not 100% unscannable."
"because it's an exploit"
"really? dev tell you that?"
"if u dont want to fight just ratting with unscanable ship, go playing with hello kitty."
"seems perfectly balanced to me. you lose pretty much any functionality besides being probe-proof. the only ships that could possibly benefit are non-combat ships (few of which have the slots to pull it off) and command ships."
"wait wait waityou're complaining about people using unscannable to do stuff at static sites?how bout you learn how to use that directional scanner?as for mission runners using unscannable ships....still possible to catch them...you just have to work at it"
"i like this mechanic and really hope it's working as intended. definitely not supported.a) unscannable ships are forced to fly with seriously gimped fits.b) a nice mechanic. quite interesting to see how people use it to their advantage."
"if you want to get spoon feed kills just run missions. rats happily suicide into you.given we had a very long discussion about this on the test server forum, i am pretty sure the devs are aware of the mechanic. as we still didnt see a change to modify the behavior, i am pretty sure it doesnt count as cheat/exploit but valid game mechanic. that said ... keep crying."
"wait wait wait... someone wana fill me in here?wtf is an unscannable ship?all ships are scannable in some form or fashion... some are more harder than others."
"easy way: sensor strength > signature radiustad more complicated: signature radius/sensor strength < 1.08t3 do this well with the dissolution sequencer; add 2 mid slot eccm and a low slot eccm and ta da, unscannablecan use implants/drugs/remote eccm to help as well"
"you wrong.read: *all ship unscanable if signature radius/sensor strength reach < 1.08.supported.remove this sh*t from game.unacceptable if someone use a ship without cloak, couldnt unscan."
"sorry what exactly did i say that was wrong? i said t3 do it well because of the ss boosting subsystem. obviously any ship can do it"
"there you go.for t3 choose a dissolution sequencer electronic sub system. stuff in 2-3 eccm until the sigradius formular hits."
"thank you so very much darius.. nice to see someone speak freaking english and explain it for the rest of us. *sincere compliment and salute to darius*not supporting for obvious reasons.(don't like that answer? serves you right.. tit for tat)"
"\"not supporting for obvious reasons.\" your reasons is nothing. lolif you dont know what is the unscannable ship, better if you dont support anything.but... exploit is exploit, cheat is cheat even then, if it came from wrong development too.so ccp fix it this sh*t. and no, not need extra stuff for unscannable ships, 3 months ago, a capital ship could use this cheat too.just now changed this thing, when the capital ships sig radius was changed.and not even need t3 ship for this unscannable crap. (all hac can, some cs can, etc)"
"you can still catch unprobabeable ships. i'm not telling you how. but if you don't want to think about it because you're too lazy why don't you go play hello kitty online?"
"fit a cloak, i got one on my bs... don't cry, this will never happen."
"why should that be anymore of an exploit than docking in a station or warping to a safe spot to wait out concord? but cord should have podded him, and as for destroying the orca well, there is a warning that say something about joining fleets and corps if those are \"flagged\" that you would be flagged as well so ye im in agreement with cord popping the orca."
"...yes, please, do try to dock with concord on your tail. then tell me how that went. really...safespot? by the time you land in the safespot, concord will be sitting there munching donuts. as for joining fleets with someone who is flagged...have you ever been involved in a fight at all? you seem to have no clue whatsoever about aggro mechanics. i suppose you're one of those that believe shooting a fleetmember is alright with concord. i suggest you get some real experience before you start spouting lies and crap on the forums."
"wow i did not know that;.. i have heard from a fw player that he (the fw) that concord can be a bit slow at times and they (the fw) are there to pick up the slack,.. not all fw players but this one group.now i hear that on the bannable offense but if they are slow at times is it still bannable if the opportunity to escape presents itself (not including docking at a ship) i know that was a dumb question but i culdnt help myself."
"make sure you are not confusing concord with factional navies/police. concord spawns pretty fast and one can not gate out, dock or in anyway prevent being sanctioned when being hunted.with the slow-poke navies/police you can do whatever you damn well please and they don't carry nearly as big hammers as concord."
"hmm the orca should get a criminal flag for helping a guy with gcc, this is just like repping a guy! and reps will get you gcc'ed. so vouch."
"but the difference is, repping is something the neutral has to activate. when docking into an orca, you just have to have permissions, which are set up before any offense would happen. the orca pilot could be an innocent victim as well. that's not a good situation. i agree, just don't let them store. i don't agree with flagging the orca."
"make it the criminal flag not the aggression flag, orcas can be used for combat support allowing new ships to be brought into the fight etc. if an aggression flag prevents you from docking with an orca then someone who wants to attack a hulk/orca combo would just have to wait for the hulks to kill an npc and then they have 15 minutes where the hulks cannot dock up to avoid getting suicided."
"here what i was thinking of they should make tech ii tactor beams that will give bonus like 50 % to range and maybe 50 % to speed. write what you think. it would be very helpfull whit salvage cos sometimes it takes too long."
"i think first they would need to focus on med and large tractors >_> only mod i know of in game that goes from small to cap size..... quite annoying if you ask me"
"use marauders or rorqual! is already there...just use it."
"because advanced weapon upgrades 5 and battleship 5 is a logical requisition for tractor beams?"
"don't most mods fit all ships small to cap? shield boosters, armor reppers, weapons, remote repping... those are the only mods that i can think of that come in sizes. shield & armor hardeners, engineering and electronic mods, propulsion mods, hull upgrades. i think there are many more mods that fit any size ship, than those specified to size.as for the original idea. i understand there isn't a t2 tractor, therefor you're trying to fill a hole you see. but the real question is, is this needed? a tractor beam is just a tool to get a job done. the job that it does is not one in need of optimization in my opinion."
"not needed and not necessary.not supported."
"but this is one of those mods that requires mod to ship size matching, hence, they need to put in medium/large... yes, hardeners can go on all ships, but a cap tractor can't go in a destroyer, see the point?"
"there's a cookie, you want it, but like hell you will actually work for it?"
"but it's the point of a rorq or a marauder is not an ideal salvage ship, which is where most tractor beam use comes into play, i think rather they should make a new salvaging class ship"
"it's not an ideal salvage ship? it has a goddamned tractor range bonus. do you really want specified ships for every mini-profession? where's your hacking ship proposal? the analyzing ship proposal?"
"how else can we nerf highsec missions?"
"replace non-ammo loot with 'wrecked modules' that are used as bpcs?"
"this idea is bad for my business"
"congrats, you just made afk mining even easier. no one will log off when they sleep to make lots of isk for when they wake up, this means the servers will be getting wtfpwned 24/7, then the core processors will overheat and melt, which will have the data relating directly to your assets in null sec, and your whole corp/alliance just lost all it's capital ships, thus creating an outrage, and ccp has to work round the clock to fix all these problems, resulting in the complete and utter shut down of eve, you've just made the worst decision ever!"
"now i'm curious about this business of yours"
"killed! x_x"
"your example makes absolutely no sense, whatsoever.ap and wtz are fine right now, if not a little overpowered."
"my proposal makes perfect sense, a mod or rig that allows you to jump through a stargate at a further distance than is currently allowed -.- what is there to not get?"
"i fit that mod. jump into a gate camp. instead of burning back to the gate. i can just jump out again? really?"
"won't quite reach to 15km away, but you won't have to burn as far, thing is, pirates might have it to and just catch ya on the other side anyways ;)"
"i proposed cardboard cutouts years ago and got a bit of positive response. a single market item that, once used, cannot be sold.to use a cardboard cutout you just drag the item to be duped over the cardboard preform and drop. for the user the cardboard item is grayed out, but when scanned it shows up on the scan as a normal item.caveat: the cardboard item takes up just as much cargo space as the original item. the duplicated item can be remotely duped using the assets list.also, you don't need the original in your cargo hold. you can dupe it and leave it wherever it is stored then autopilot around empire griefing suiciders. it's a good way to get rid of your insured t1 haulers. :)when the ship is destroyed the cardboard item is either destroyed or dropped as normal, but the killmail lists it as nothing more than '<item>, cardboard'. the recovering party sees it as a grayed out decoy."
"lmao can just imagine seeing that on the kill boards,....there is something in x3 that i use in my cargohold when i run smuggling ops so the local authorites cant detect it,.. its a sort of scrambler/ chameleon.. what it does is redirect the scan to a \"legal\" item thus what im smuggling does not show up but rather it shows i have 1 more of the legal item ie: im smuggling 200 space flies(illegal) but i also have other commodities, it will randomly pick one of the other commodities to \"cloak\" and match the number of the space flies. now if i dont have anything in my hold (ammo, missiles etc,..) my hold is empty it will take/ mimic what is in their hold and show that that is what im carrying,.. unless their hold is empty then im on the run. but that is a luck of the draw because it does not always work for mimicing whats in their hold,.. i think its like a 15 -20% chance of success, maybe less i dont remember cause i always make sure i have something in my hold."
"i don't think you've thought this through all the way. if you put a decoy into your cargo, you are now just that much more juicy to shoot at. you won't have fewer wolves at the door, you'll have more. i understand in a general way, if everyone was using them, gankers would not know who to shoot. but as an individual pilot, i want to make myself look less appealing, not more appealing. who is going to be the first to use this? will you really feel like you won if you lose your industrial half full of decoys? you still lost something, doesn't matter if your opposition gained something or not.i do not support this idea."
"i don<U+FFFD>t think cloaking should be made any more powerful than it already is. not supported."
"this idea is ret@rded!"
"i would like an explanation how this little change, that is made for the sake of convenience more then anything, would tip the balance of cloaking."
"seems there is something to this cloak thing for even in x3 reunion you cant do things while cloaked (mod) but put mods offline and they power down = signature of some sort, put them on line and they power up = signature of some sort,.. im sure .. has to be.so when sitting cloaked and your trying to change ammo;.. well im sure in some kind of sense different ammo has different \"signatures\" which by changing while cloaked would put you at risk for decloaking plus the time it takes to recover to target not to mention the \"extra\" time for the reload/load(change of ammo). say for ie: nuclear definately has a dif sig than emp, which has a dif sig than proton, now lead, titanium may not have much of a sig per say but \"powering down\" so to speak the wep to change ammo would give off a sig that could compromise you in a not so good way (as mentioned above). now changing ammo ie crystals .. thats all sig,.. has to be.. im sure of it.i mean its not like you can sit cloaked and do a tactical ship scan to figure out what munition is best,.. so just come equipped with the best munition you think would be good all around to do the job.... i think cloaking is for the pros who know or have a pretty good idea of what fittings are out there and probably have the right tool for the job,.. no matter what it is,.. id say just be a lil more patient because everything has a trick and knowledge will lead you to it.have fun, good luck, fly well, fly safe"
"the responses in this thread area hilarious. how can changing ammo in any way make cloaking \"overpowered\"? ridiculus."
"no.leave cloaking alone, if you wish to change ammo, then do it when uncloaking or at a safe uncloaked."
"because you dont have to give up that you are close by?"
"but you don't have to as-is. bookmark your location, warp off, switch ammo at a safe, warp back. it's not like they'll notice you."
"sure and then you come back end the target is gone and you start searching for him again. also lots of people have combat probes out to see if signals show up on scan. so they could still catch you."
"and being able to shoot your target with the right ammo type is jsut gonna make it overpowered? jesus, that is just.. lame.i understand if you do not support it because you do not think it is important and/or valuable addition to gameplay, but screaming that it would make cloacking overpowered is way over the top."
"up there on that line that says: logged in as... to the right of the 'log out' option show a timer letting you know how much time you have left before you can post again in 10s increments.please. *sigh*"
"im guilty of that. agreed.ye no need for the timer i just got this again:time flux detected you are going too fast! wait five minutes and try again"
"ever seen a swarm of arty thrashers? it's scary as hell. and extremely effective against pretty much anything.the other destroyers are just horribly underpowered."
"loldestroyers...pvp..."
"yeah, destroyers need loving. not this way though."
"yeah... see how you like it when you get hammered by fifty chat/gang invites in a manner of seconds after jumping through a gate.by the time you've clicked them all down you're waking up in a station.no."
"many mmos have a \"do not disturb\" option that blocks out chat. this is not unique to eve, and i think it's a perfectly fine options to use."
"because way way to many would just miss use them. if some mine in their belts they report them as macro, if some afk mine they report them as macro. if some have \"auto reject\" on they are macros.... ccp would get lik 2000 of these reports everyday, only 10 of these are correct macro miners."
"any chance u're up to it tea :)"
"trying to keep this short and open ended to allow discussion.some npc station services (blueprint research & copying specifically) always have long queues. this is caused by a growing player base, and a static fee which has become absurdly low compared to the demand for these services. current costs are 1000 isk + 2697 isk per hour. this comes up to less than 2m for a full month. the player run secondary market charges 300-600% more than this.i'm suggesting to make these fees more dynamic. this could be achieved by either a supply/demand formula that simply changes the fee for future jobs, or maybe some sort of auction system, where the person willing to pay a larger fee gets bumped to the front of the line. these two are just examples. the overall goal is to give a system that allows npcs to alter prices based on demand and what players are willing to pay."
"i support yet again!"
"funny that, 'cause i could've sworn i've seen other issues with less thumbs getting csm attention..."
"hybrid guns balance (csm)anyone know what came of this? has/is csm discussing this? also, much love to korvin for addressing it at least."
"beats me why no response from csm, especially since they know hybrids have huge issues."
"makes sense/thumbs up"
"supported"
"and let me to see my bookmark in grid!"
"also need to see bm's in the overview."
"most definitely. currently this lack is both weird and really annoying.fully supported."
"supported"
"maybe being aligned and able to insta-warp should not have the added advance of being so to a safepoint where you must be scanned with probes to be found instead of a quick on-board scanner. that's my opinion anyway."
"this functionality is a no-brainer. plz gief."
"supported"
"yes"
"i'm honored you feel that way about me.btw: has your alliance ever been relevant? ... just sayin'"
"so relevant that ccp nerfed us specifically ... ahhh how soon they forget ... mining must have fried your brain ...btw: friendly bump"
"well kick my cats i just found this thread. \o/"
"note to ccp: your customer base's e-peen flexing tendencies, combined with this proposed feature, will create more effective advertising in the form of glorified pewpew than any number of butterfly effect vids ever could. /supported"
"yes"
"this doesn't kill fraps either. in fact, it would allow for even more interesting movies to be made (after the fact) of major battles. i would do a happy dance.edit: support."
"it's not *my* idea, i am only supporting the op to a certain degree. i am not part or member of the op's corp either. learn 2 read.i have no problems with war deccing corps, as the op's corp is not my corp. learn 2 read. :) this eve-character is over 6 years in training. you can be sure, that i know how ot handle pirates.lolz, i don't know, who has been \"embarrassing himself\", as this player is *not* a new player. again:learn 2 read!this player's toon has been a part of eve since 2005. oooooooppppps! but you do know what? i detest cheap and emberrassing greifers taking on some newbs. thats why *i* support this idea."
"so your defense is that you are a player whose old character explains away his poor grammer, moderate literacy, bad spelling, horrible ideas, shady judgement, etc and believe this makes you and the op less of an embarassment....how?"
"how many languages do you speak? i am able to read and write in 6 languages, though not perfect.we can as well talk in my native language, if you prefer that? might it be possible, that not all ppl in the world are native talkers? could that be? wow, could you imagine, that there are some other ppl in the world but enlish and americans? wow.... impressive.nah that can't be, the world elvolves only around you and your langauge. man, i feel sad for you and your arrogance. you surely miss out on a lot. reading a book in another language, talking to the locals in their language (yeah, maybe not perfect and with poor grammar, but it is still fun and helps making contacts.)really, i feel sorry for you that you have ot jump on foreigners and their grammar mistakes on a message board of an international game. and well you know what? real life losers like that, who are only able to talk in one language and moch about non-native talkers, are exactly the same ppl who ruin the gaming experience for some newbie players like the op seems to be one. by cheap war deccing a newbie corp."
"please stay on topic."
"not supported.i love picking on newbies who cannot fight back."
"not supported, high sec wardecs allows a version of highsec piracy which tempers and controls new corporations. if a corp does not get wardecced in highsec it will never be able to prepare for its eventual decent into lowsec or null.i hate to say it, this is a sandbox, the ability to wardec allows the formation of merc corps and pirate corps. i would not be against the limit of one week of warfare without the fight going mutual with a 24 hour cooldown before allowing the coorps to redeclare, this way even your highsec carebearish types can have a bit to resupply before the fighting starts back up as well as slowing down those just doing it for griefing instead of any monetary gain."
"war should not be a wow-style duel. eve is not the land of teddy bears and pointy-eared elves. eve is not a fluffy cartoon land. high sec is not meant to coddle, it is meant to offer minimal protection so new players can learn the game and older players can participate in some activities in relative peace. war is an instrument for other players to disrupt said activities, forcing players out of their bubble so they experience more of the game. this is not to say that pve players should be forced into pvp. war decs usually happen when players stay in the same place, doing the same thing, for an extended period of time. there are so many aspects of pve that players would fail to experience if they were allowed to stay stuck in a rut. a war forces players to branch out and try new things.\"it is by opposition that we grow.\"\"adversity precedes growth.\"\"if we're growing, we're always going to be out of our comfort zone.\"\"the unexamined life is not worth living.\"\"when you're finished changing, you're finished.\""
"bah. high sec logistics are already invulnerable save for suicide ganking. it's called an alt in an npc corp and it is slightly more common than farming in the north american prairies.the op doesn't have a good solution (as in wardecs being mutual) but there does need to be some way to fix the horribly awful current 'pay to grief' system. all it does is drive new players out of the game in frustration and that is simply not a good thing.not to mention that with all the station games, remote repping and concord mix empire wars are loopy anywhoo. the whole thing needs a re-vamp, but mutuality only is not the way."
"im suporting this because wardec is a broke way 2 harass new players.i liked 2 know how many wardec are made between old and established corp (perct.)perfect there but they fought 4 a territory or for resources, so why not the wardec only valid in a certain constelation or solar system or region leaving the rest of the space safe making possible 2 new corp 2 avoid the fight. think that like switzerland.another way 2 balance the thing was extending the period prior the war start to 48 hours and adding the option do get a corp that gonna fight that war 4 u.ex: you recieve a wardec from a corp. u during the waiting period can talk 2 varios merc corp and if they accept it they gonna become flagged in your place.i dont know if is possible 2 receive varios wardec but if it is limiting to one.this are some ideas 2 keep the wardec but i think this will balance it more."
"well i didn't figure that my original post would draw so much strong (and sometimes emotional) responses. it has been an interesting read so far. i'm glad that there has been much acknowledgement of the failings and abuse of the wardeccing mechanism, although support for my proposed solution has fallen short. from all that i have read i have concluded for myself too that it is indeed the wrong solution for the problem at hand. on the other hand i have been a bit dissapointed about some posts that claimed that you should not complain and just fight, because they feel that is what eve is all about (or should be about). like i argued before, eve is also about free choice of the path you want to go, and i frankly sometimes felt quite some disrespect and even despise towards the part of the eve community that chooses a mining/industrialism path. however, as the eve community as a whole depends very much on miner/industrialist, that is a bit short sighted to say the least. please lets have respect for each other.for the rest, i stick to the opinion that wardeccing rules should change, but i retract my original solution, as clearly that was not the right one. there were some interesting suggestions that i hope will be elaborated further and which might lead to a solution that is acceptable to everyone.thanks for all your contributions so far.gwabakk"
"there's no arguing that the wardec system needs reforming, but making wardecs optional* isn't the way forward.a more formal system with declared grievances, declared objectives and declared peace conditions would be better.and these should apply to both parties. if the wardeccing corp declares a peace condition of \"disband corp\", then it is under the same ban itself. the war continues until one corp disbands. that would add an element of risk and increase the value of mercs, no? ditto for a peace condition of \"pay 1 billion isk\". if the deccing corp wants to impose this peace condition, it should have to put up a bond for that amount, which they forfeit if they let the war lapse.but with more stringent conditions on the deccing corp, should also come more stringent conditions on the decced. eg: wardec follows characters leaving either corp for 24 hours, no-one in corp can create a new corp for the duration of the war, etc etc. the tactic of cycling through corps to evade a dec is just as cheap as the tactic of deccing noob corps.*yes i know they pretty much are already, but you know what i mean."
"what about those people who use war decs against high sec corps but don't actually have rl problems?not everyone who wardecs empire corps is a mental basket case, some players actually like to pvp in a pvp game"
"damn .... how'd i miss this one ... page 3 no support"
"i actually agree with the general idea behind this proposal. there should be some purpose behind a war dec besides \"lulz\". if you just want to watch ships explode, go to low sec. i would also agree with the idea of implementing a character level war dec flag that follows a character leaving a war decced corp for a period of 7 days or until the war officially ends, whichever is shorter."
"interesting answer, so u see eve has a pvp game and it isnt only that.the way wardec works pvp players get what they want but rest is forced to it.eve in my opinion should be more democratic so adding a few conditions to wardec would balance the question"
"i don't understand."
"some players only see eve has a pvp game but others see more than that and those who dont see it only has a pvp game are forced 2 play a pvp."
"thanks for clearing that up a little.you can play eve as pve game. you just have to keep your head low and stay in an npc corp."
"the intaki who sympathised with the caldari are either in syndicate or with the mordus. all canon states, without exception, that the majority of the intaki in the federation (certainly not all of them, but most of them) support the federation.as stated above, this is an incorrect interpretation of the canon.so let me get this straight... you want ccp to change it so that caldari can deploy capships to support the titan in luminaire, but gallente cannot, giving caldari an obvious away-field advantage that cannot be countered by the fdu? that's pretty transparent."
"meh, supported . . . why not"
"has my support, but only if it is backed by in-game player action."
"supported"
"intaki is low sec just like thukker is low/null sec. as sec status is a concord thing, not a faction thing, it isn't a big surprise. however, faction defense of a system should not mirror the sec status. in that regard, yes, there should be gallente/intaki police ships on the gates."
"well, yes, but the difference there is that the thukker aren't actually part of the republic, whereas the intaki are part of the federation."
"correct me if i'm wrong but planets and such are actually stationary and don't orbit around the sun. personally for me, having planets that followed their orbital paths would be much higher on the list then this proposal. even better would be if all orbital objects like moons and asteroids etc. did this but planets alone would work too.ie this proposal is worried about having realistic planets according to their distances from the sun but the fact that they don't rotate and orbit would mean that having \"correct\" planets would mean having planets with one side scorched away and the other side lost in perpetual darkness and cold."
"yes. but that is kinda big change to how planets are implemented in eve. and it's really relevant only for inner planets, further away ones have 'years' that can have a lot longer than on earth - ie presently passed 7 years of eve would have caused only small move in their positions. i do agree ofc that if they would actually move and rotate it would be even more uber. but all is not lost, there is already light at the end of tunnel light - ccp is aware that at least temperatures are random in the info fields of planets and seem to be willing to do something about those. so when they do that script perhaps they can also include very small and very basic model that sticks 'right' skins in more or less right places by making use some simple planetary model (if they dont have time to do complex one) in consistent manner."
"the planets do rotate. maybe not all (or not all at the same speed)?during eve beta the planets actually moved around their star; however ccp decided that this had insignificant impact on the game (likely for the same reasons mentioned in the post above) for the cost in server resources."
"false. false. false. i am extremely embarrassed that a fellow mba would say such statements that are contrary to business/marketing/economics theories. i will imagine you are lying about your degree so i do not have to question how far the scholastic requirements for the degree have declined.incidentally, it hardly would take a phd in astrophysics to sort this out.please tell us what company you work for. i, for one, really want to know what shiny new purchase might be from a company with a \"just make it look good!\" attitude. in fact, it would be nice to know so i don't accidentally invest in the company."
"actually, if we are improving planets, let's get them spinning again as well. incoldblood- if you have nothing to add to the conversation except for personal insults, please refrain from commenting."
"so, does anyone apart for the npcs actually use defenders? seems to me that the de-activating feature does make them rather pointless in combat.perhaps they should be changed so that they activate against a specific target (and stay active until the target is de-selected), and shoot down missiles only from that target? that would make them useful, without completely unbalancing things."
"supported, they do need a fix.the manual 'turn on after launch' thing is really the only broken thing about them. if it could be set so that when the mod was active they'd launch when the ship was fired on, they'd be fine.and no, they are neither nerf or buff nor anything else. they aren't a 'nerf' to missile boats because you need to fit them in a missile slot of your own. you reduce your own dps for some protection - and it's not even all that good given the group fire we now see.they would be a nice tactical option if they worked properly. they do currently have some pve utility particularly against guristas, but that's about it.and, off topic, some folks quite like fof missiles and i know of at least one drake pilot who won a pvp fight expressly because of them. i'm gallente but even so my few missile capable ships always carry a couple of fofs so i can contribute if jammed."
"supported!"
"i don't know if it's a 0.0 phenomena or if it's wide spread, but i'm getting pretty tired of collecting large t2 rig bpc's that are completly useless, like a large memetic algorithm bank ii bpc (i've picked up 5 of these). these were somewhat useful back in the days of one size fits all rigs, but no one in their right mind would ever install one of these on a bs or capital ship.it'd be nice to see ccp take a look at the loot tables on magnometric sites and redo some of these rediculous drops to corrospond to sized rigs."
"hmmmm, i get the feeling this would be to useful for ccp to actual implement."
"shift + drag = move/resize all probesctrl + drag = resize spread of all probescode gets probe positions, if the a probe is moved towards \"center\" then all other \"corners\" are also moved towards this point.good flexible ui design has nothing to do with your ability to work around limited inflexible ui."
"battlesmiths solution is much more logical/appealing to me. we have far too many of the silly drop-down and context menus as it is and i am loathe to add even more.supported with caveat."
"supported, active tanks could indeed use some love.personally i would reduce the pg requirements of armour repairer slighly too."
"ok"
"game masters have given a new toy for people in 0.0people from the empire play in the war between factions.pirates also want something for themselves.some time ago i spoke about missions for the pirates and bounty hunters.i know that this can be complicated, but what i propose is simple.this module will enhance the fun in the bad pirates.using this, the pirate can check the implants of catched pod pilot and propose suitable ransom.pilot using it should get aggression, so the sentry can shoot him.it should not be allowed in high security space and can be used only by pilots with -10 ss.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.orginal topic !"
"/signed"
"+"
"1.0"
"already posted twice in original thread. awesome idea of awesome usefulness!"
"aye sir - pivates need some <3 from ccp"
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed+1"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+"
"1.0"
"not limited to personal sec status, but limited to lowsec and null and a yes"
"revived. also i would like to try to stay away from discussions of this feature adding a lag to the game. as third parties to the actual game mechanics and functions we cannot say what will and what will not create lag. additionally, the merits of an idea should not be measured by whether or not it might cause lag. i will leave it up to ccp to decide how to get around lag, or to scrap an idea because it will add lag that cannot be gotten around.again, i request that a csm member update us on the status of this proposal. is ccp looking into it? do they want to do it but don't have the resources? do they not want to do it from a gameplay standpoint?this topic had support from prior csm members but seems to have been forgotten. please just let us know what is going on with it, even if the news is bad."
"i proposed this over in fid a while back, and have been thinking about it since;here is the proposal for the csm's consideration since i haven't been able to find any major holes in the idea.original fid link: linkagebrief summary:a new class of module that absorbs the heat generated by modules placed into an overheat state, lengthening the time that they can stay in that state before reaching critical damage and shutting off.the module would have similar fitting requirements to a cap booster, and require a consumable charge of some kind.recommended gating skill: thermodynamics iv or vice products could be used in construction of the charges should these be player-made.why: allows higher ship performance at the cost of a fitting slot and cargo space otherwise utilized for other important modules. for example, if it were a low slot, it forces a choice between armor, damagemods and cap gear. if a med slot it competes with points, ewar, propulsion mods and shield tanks.pros: more diversity in fitting choices.cons: might be abusable by some ships if not balanced properly.constructive criticism desired. if there is something i'm missing then it would be nice to be informed rather than flamed."
"i don't know the way it stands now is kind of nice. overheating has a desperate quality to it that if it was simply made into an even more routine tactic would take away that feeling.of course a ship that is dedicated to burning its **** for that glory or death is kind of interesting too, but honestly i don't think that your proposals benefits would outweigh the feeling and immersion that the current mechanic supplies.(also heat-sinks already go in the lows :p, personally if one were to go ahead with this i'd put it in the meds it cant go in the highs because there are way too many ships with spare highs.)"
"this already exists.offline modules will heatsink damage from neighboring overheated modules and can take repair paste at any time."
"if i'm not mistaken, leaving the slot totally empty is even more effective, though i admit i haven't tried it myself. but yeah, this already exists, no need for a new mod."
"i would assume a module spesifically created for this purpose should be more effective then an empty slot. a ship with active hardeners and reppers can boost it's tank by 70+% with overheating, although only for a short time. those 70% may mean life or death, and if such ship is primaried in small gangs, it woun't go down easily."
"but an empty slot is specifically dedicated to it. what else is it doing?"
"i could live with a literal heat sink, a low slot mod that would decrease heat damage from mods by a certain percentage. would work great on ships which don't have hislots free for heat absorption and make overheating more viable.ever since their introduction, i've wished ccp would do more with overheating and boosters, this would be a nice step in that direction."
"yes, because that is a great solution for everyone.anyway, yeah shadow is annoying as hell, i don't care if i am below a bunch of planets all on the same axis."
"poor ui has nothing to do with lazy."
"i live in blood rat space and knowing which rat is neuting me makes it a primary target. i support this"
"1.0"
"sure"
"a: the problem i have with changing to a system where people submit a bounty contract is 1) so far the exploit is around ppl receiving bounty prizes not placing bounties (dont fix what aint broke, the current system of placing bounties works) and 2)how could people \"add\" to the bounty.b: as stated above there would have to be a minimum initial bounty you could place on a person- 100k or 1mil isk. c: also above: you receive bounty kill rights- which dont result in a concord response.hope thats all cleared up"
"here's the too long: didn't read versionyour system will be rife with exploits, both for the mark and the hunters. it will not do a better job than hiring mercs directly. the extended versionthe main problem with the current 'bounty' system is that the target's corp mate,friend, alt can collect the cash and there is no just no reasonable expectation that the target got killed in something that was important to him. if you allow the computer to randomly select the target and match it to a hunter, you will have people that will convo the target and ask him 'you want to split the bounty'. if you add in any kind of high sec kill rights you got a recipie for disaster as you will be drasticly be changing the idea of security sec, basically -2 and you might as well be in a war dec. the second problem, is why does anyone think bounty hunting is a 1vs1 thing? if i'm a pirate, then i'm in a pirate corp. so when you come to my stretch of low sec you don't fight just me but my 5 sniper bs friends. you need a gang to fight a gang, this is where that crime and punishment forum comes in and you can hire a gang to grief the griefers. there is no reason to take it out of person to person convo's and making a good contract when they will achieve the same goal as an automated system."
"note that programmable keyboards are allowed. several dev/gm statements about that."
"i would support anything to get macro banning to the forefront. ccp claims they do so many bannings, yadda yadda. yet when people are reported as macros in the current way, nothing is ever done. they reply to the petition saying they'll inestigate, then close it. yet, the macros i have encountered and petitioned have never missed a beat. i have made sure they were macros also. i've popped roids they were mining and immediately their lasers goto the next roid. there is no slight pause. these same people are mining back and forth to station when i wake up and still mining when i sign on later, even when i goto bed. the ones i reported do this and if the belts are empty, they goto the next system and still dock 1 jump, then mine, jump, etc. i've even bumped a guy in testing him many times to at least get him to say something, but never. ccp may claim they are after macros but i am calling bs on it after the macros are still out in full force. because if they do ban them, they dont read all the petitions about them.this does need implemented or something to that effect. macro miners/macro mission runners/macro anything needs to stop and ccp needs to take action instead of claiming something they dont do. just like isk sellers/isk buyers, they claim they ban them, yet how do tyhey ban someone who \"has been identified as a isk seller\" yet they are still in the game?"
"bolded the parts that you quoted that say the same exact thing as your post.my main point was that programmable keyboards/mice are allowed as long as they dont do more then what you could do from the shortcut menu. you can not use them to create functions (such as releasing the drones) or looping functions."
"players already claim \"macroz\" for every miner in high sec. i seem to recall a lengthy (and silly) debate about whether or not the veldnought was using a macro. ccp has automated tools to identify macro use. anything the automated tools aren't picking up isn't going to have logs that prove they are using macros. so, flagging a player as using macros is fairly useless. right click, lock, fire. much easier. at that point, it doesn't matter if they are using a macro or not."
"supported.ironic how a newest most carebearish ship has been twisted and manipulated to serve the purposes of suicide gankers"
"if it worked in this situation, i can see this exploit escalating. collect orcas, a bunch of high alpha bcs (arties or some such thing), sit on a gate outside jita and gank a freighter (but magically save all the ships involved in the suicide gank).this needs to be fixed."
"yes please"
"1.0"
"aye !"
"please do that, will make life so much more easierbesides (well im not a dev just a wild guess here), but maybe it will be possible to combat lag mosnter by streamlining io information flows by grouping them in a single fleet rather than managing io of several fleet seperatellymy guess that right now io is not based on fleet anyway, but rahter on every individual account, however maybe we could implement it this way so that they are grouped somehow by fleetmaybe single fleet io load on server could be allocated to a dedicated processor cluster based on size of fleetso if fleet is small, then process it as normal, if fleet grows very large then get a dedicated cluster of processors managing itsmth like that/wearing flame resistant suit and supporting the idea"
"simple idea:allow corporations to set 'rat' like bounties on ship types of their enemies (or just in general) - each time a pilot kills a class of ship, etc - he gets a pre-designated payout from his corp or alliance.the corp or alliance is given a interface through the corp/alliance interface to pay out based on such kills and can adjust as appropriate -- of course the entire thing is toggle-able, so that during certain campaigns corps are able to pay their pilots for their pvp participation in the same manner as pilots that might be ratting (although obviously not as consistent)and csm can take it from there on to its rational conclusions --- will be a great, simple, addition in my opinion.regards,kass"
"better war declarations:the cost of war:the price of war declarations increases over time. a cooldown is added to avoid wars being reset for free. once a war is cancelled a period of time in wich the wardecced corporation can not be wardecced again by the same corporation starts. i think between one week and one month depending on the time the war was active is good. maybe coupled with better pricing.negotiations:using contracts to cancel wars, you can trade a war cancel and demand items or money to do it. in addition, the period of peace can be set and tracked to see if the terms are met (cooldown applies though). if future treaties include non-agression pacts, they could be included in this contracts. public record of past contracts."
"i don't see the point, really. what does this accomplish?yes, i agree. we need better surrender mechanics. the current one is not user friendly.by the way, the blue color makes me want to tear my eyes out. don't use it ever again."
"it serves the purpose of cancelling wars being meaningful and making the costs of declaring war being paid as time goes by. they increase over time now, don't they? if they don't i'll add that to the proposal.btw: blue over black makes one of the best contrasts that makes reading easier, i'm sorry it hurted your eyes :p"
"zes, better war declarations would be nice, we need a whole system, not parts and pieces all over the place. this is not going to make it better."
"i don't think the cost of war increases as time goes by. hence my earlier question."
"fixed :) i thought it was by some comments in other threads."
"first, the griefers steal my salvage. now the new thing seems to be them stealing my quest items. my damsel got stolen the other day and when i fired at the griefer concord killed me even though he was stealing her from a container in my mission! they say that they try to sell them back so there's a profit in it, but it's griefing in its purest form.ccp, can you please fix this? thanks."
"its high sec piracy, deal with it.you need to understand that with eve its not your property until its in your hangar.if you can't accept this design aspect then you need to play another mmorpg... can any1 here think of one better suited to this person ?"
"nice name- crappy topic-1/10"
"assuming this isn't a troll, just petition to have the mission reset."
"they shouldnt even do that for players"
"anyone stealing mission items is scum of the earth!!!"
"you'll all be so proud of me.i ran into some1 else's worlds collide at around 0600 eve time, and lucky me was able to grab their 20 x ship's crew ! dodixie of course, where else are there so many carebears waiting to be farmed ?got a 5 million ransom for it :d set a reasonable price, anything excessive doesn't work."
"1st: why you dont get the damsel directly after the hub is blowing up?2nd: we have no quest<U+FFFD>s and no quest items here, its an mission objective.3nd: its not griefingto the end:carebear mimimi"
"uhm, you don't get flagged for stealing mission items?hmm, if possible, that should be fixed, not that it would solve much ofc, can't go shooting a pirate with a pve ship anyway, that would probably cost you more.still it feels wrong and not in line with the other rules, if someone steals, they should get flagged. this will probably mean revising some missions.p.s. to op, don't mix salvage into this debate, it has/will have a detrimental effect on the discussion and is working as intended."
"yes it is.if you don't get flagged, that needs fixing. as for the rest, if diplomacy does not help, let the guns do the talking."
"exactly what cybergh0st say.you don't get a aggression flag if you steal a crucial mission item that drop in a can but you get it if you take a crucial mission item that drop in a wreck. so it is seem a bug, not a intended feature. concord should not protect the can for you but it should allow you to try to protect it by force."
"my personal opinion is that there should be no concord involvement in anything that happens in a dead space area.however, as it stands nothing in eve is yours until it is in your cargo bay.accept that and things become easier.not supported."
"the mission item can should be player-owned (i.e. another player would be flagged for stealing from it). whether or not the mission runner can kill the other player at that moment is irrelevant (just like it is irrelevant whether or not the miner can kill the player that flipped his can). if they want to engage the person who nabbed stuff from their can, concord shouldn't attack them. that's just silly."
"yes"
"definently need a fix"
"someday they will be fixed"
"increase the anchoring skill to decrease the time per level needed to anchor or unanchor an item, maybe 5% or hell even 10%. this is mainly to take the hours of wasted time away when anchoring or unanchoring pos's."
"supported. hell, i'll even give you the $7 in advance if you commit to give me the working token in 3 months."
"supported, best thing blizzard ever did fro themselves. the amount of restorations was straining the customer service and billing departments to the brink and eve needs it before it gets into the millions of subscribers."
"this issue has already been raised by the csm and passed on to ccp.*wiki link*"
"supported!"
"20th time it is being proposed. here is what we will do: [/url]please visit your user settings to enable images.we more trash it under repackage. currently it is right next to \"make active\" and as that is the most used button on any ship, there is a high chance of miss clicking. repackage is probably the least used button, so moving it under repackage would put it outside of the risk zone."
"better would be to add the same style of confirm popout that is used to remove yourself from a fleet. so you have to hit trash it then confirm, then actually click ok.but yeah, along with the other 9 billion ui changes eve needs, this one needs to be done."
"yeah, but repackage a ship also has the \"are you sure\" prompt (i think). make active doesn't.it may cause some grievances, for example:maxsim goratiev> time to repackage my domi for resell.\"are you sure you want to -\"maxsim goratiev> blah blah blah, yes!maxsim goratiev> wtf? where did my ship go?"
"you have a point there, you know. but it definatly need to be moved form where it is to a less frequently used neighborhood."
"on a similar vein could we move the \"self destuct\" option away from \"enter starbase password\" - an option often used in high lag environments?"
"sure!"
"a thread with more suggestions :"
"according to the changes to the navy frigates they are supposed to be a cross between an assault ship and interceptor:\"due to their split weapon layout and lack of dedicated role, navy frigates usefulness remains quite limited. we plan to turn them into an hybrid of interceptors and assault frigate classes, combining points of both, being less specialized than the tech2 hulls, thus more versatile but less resilient.\"one thing i would like to point out is that the warp speed of these ships were not adjusted to a higher speed to reflect this. currently they still have the warp speed of a t1 frigate. i would like this increased to be the average warp speed of the assault ships and interceptors. sadly i can not log in right now to do the calculations myself but i believe all af's warp at 6 au/s and half ceptors are 9 au/s and the other half is 13 au/s. which means the average is 8.5 au/s.tl;dr - increase all navy frigates warp speed from 6 au/s to 8.5 au/s"
"you might want to link your fid discussion thread if you start cross posting. :)"
"better yet i just requested to have that thread locked. thanks for pointing out the cross posting stuff. edit: so this idea half backed?? or does it have some merit to it?"
"since such a large proporion of a warp is spent accelerating and decelerating rather than traveling at your top warp speed this isn't really that big a deal either way, but to fit the desciption, sure why not.i'd much prefer to see the acceleration and deceleration rates whilst warping improved for smaller ships though, rather than to tinker around with the (only marginally useful) top speed."
"navy frigates were changed to closer in performance to t2 frigates, that much is true.what speaks against your proposal is that they were all made into combat oriented hulls, with a sizeable damage increase over the \"old\" ships. in addition they all received an equally large base speed increase making them nearly as fast as interceptors ..if they were to get any more attention it should be to push them even further towards the af side rather than the interceptor side."
"being a mixture of the two classes does not mean that every single stat is somewhere in the middle of the values for the afs and the ceptors. it means that overall the ship as a whole fits somewhere in between. the current ones do. i see no need to change this."
"i'm sorry op but i would have to disagree with this as it would lessen the isk sinks in game considerably thus things would eventually become much more expensive since every one would start to have more isk."
"not supported. the op csm has obviously no real insight about industrialism and economics in eve."
"love the concept, but as stated by many people so far, current proposal has no details on balance.not supported in current form."
"i like the idea but it is just more trouble than it's worth. do this and you'll be creating a bigger problem (getting rid of a good isk sink)."
"it would be nice to get some statistics on the effect dominion has had on the purchase of pos towers. i would guess there has been a fairly significant decrease. i do not think players manufacturing pos towers or related things would cause the impact suggested by the \"it removes an isk sink\" crowd. ccp has already moved a sizable chunk of the isk sink from pos fuel to isk paid directly to maintenance fees. as the cost of these fees is greater than the npc provided portion of pos fuel that had traditionally been an isk sink, the isk sink has grown significantly. with tyrannis coming out, it seems like a good idea to look over the balance of isk injection and drain in the system. pos bpos are a good idea for another variable that could be used to create balance.it is a good idea. however, i'm also worried that pushing this could weaken the tyrannis planet management idea. i prefer planet management over more bpos."
"i have chatted to corp and alliance members about both of these subjects and the general concensus is they agree. so:- i would like to be able to swap drones in space for various damage types, we don't all have dronebay space to carry various types to launch as and when needed and after all they are a type of ammo, and ammo types can be changed in space.atm i am in gurista rat space, am amarr and a laser specialist. i would like to see a crystal which does kinetic damage, other ammo can be chosen to cause kinetic, why not crystals? and, no, i do not want to retrain and apart from that, my amarr ships are laser orientated. seems a shame that my drones have to do all the work killing rats, while my guns are used purely to take agro away from the drones!constructive comments would be really appreciated.thanksstar"
"lasers are an energy weapon, not a kinetic weapon. having a laser that fires a solid projectile doesn't even make lolrp sense, much less any other kind.i would not be opposed to changing drones in space (being as i use drones heavily) but we need to make sure that you don't end up with dominixes with 700 m3 drone bays, and i think that was largely the intention behind the mechanic.however, as written, i can't support the proposal due to the double up with the laser issue."
"basically, this.as an addition. you can change drone in space with the help of:- ship maintenance array- orca- carrierapproach the ship/array -> go to the fitting screen -> on the lower left corner there is a drones symbol -> click on it. happy changing drones.that said, the drones proposal is kind of mood and has the tendency to get overpowered if you would be able to do it without the array/orca/carrier. and the kinetic/explosive lasers will never happen. but in the end ... it doesnt really matter. the 2nd weakness of guristas is thermal. so you can switch to crystals with more thermal dmg.not supported."
"i'd like to see a skill to reduce the signature radius of pods. say 5%/level. would increase survivability of pod a little and make it easier to escape after loss of ship. could be called 'advanced evacuation piloting' or some such. since limited to pods would not unbalance the game. the same or a similar skill could be applied to shuttles.any thoughts?"
"almost entirely useless, but it amuses me. sure."
"simply put, there is a bug with reprocessing. sometimes loot just won't reprocess. for some inane reason.i am not talking about items that cannot be reprocessed. i am talking about items like (ammo. modules. etc) that should be perfectly reprocessable, but the station won't give a quote for.for instance. i had 2 thunderbolt heavy cruise missiles in my hanger. i decided to reprocess them, yet, when i get a quote, it tells me that i have not selected anything to reprocess.yes i did.and earlier, i reprocessed 100 units of small anti matter hyprid ammo. yet 1 unit didn't reprocess along with the other 99. and refuses to do so. same with 73 out of 700 defender missiles i had.ccp. fix this."
"it is the same as with refining ore. you need a certain batch size to reprocess them. no bug there."
"wow. i had no idea you needed a batch for loot.../i failed."
"supported of course. i really don't understand why eve has so many issues like this, removing this sort of thing would improve the ui immeasurably. also i'd like to stop starting conversations with people i'm just looking for info on."
"of course"
"as someone who has run courier agents for faction standings.this would suck!it's enough of a grind without having to reject half your storylines."
"what nonsense. if people want to be in fw then good, but if not that's good too. forcing them on some stupid mission \"just because\" is ******ed."
"the skiff already has its' niche. mining mercoxit."
"this is a really dumb idea. the mod would only be used by stupid people and autopiloting haulers, and i'm not sure about the latter."
"yes, more appealing, thats what makes it so much better, you lure gankers to attack more. then they gank someone and waste their time on uselessness. you'd get more suicides, sure, but you'd also get more people flying around in junk luring them to shoot. thats the purpose. otherwise, they can continue to pick targets and know risks, rather than no risk if they know they are hitting a loaded ship full of isk."
"i say everyone who reads this thread should convo spam the op, maybe he will think twice about post silliness on the forum."
"its been discussed many many times for many years, and has been proposed many different ways.i am for the hacking and accessing of secure cans, but showing you someones password would be a terrible idea. they might be an idiot and use that same password for their login, or pos shield or jb network, oh who knows what else. and i would think that to break a secure container, you would need to take hours not minutes. real brute force hacking can take days. maybe 12hrs to start, with 10% reduction. 6hrs at level 5. oh and call it advanced hacking.write a proposal for assembly hall!"
"i glanced at it, but i would rather they work on lag reducing tactics, then giving ******s more of a reason to complain (omg i have dynamic smoke and hull damage on and im lagging so bad this game sucks whaaa)not to mention i'd rather have hybrid turrets not be useless, before considering cosmetic changes to projectiles. gg"
"i believe the anti speed nerf thread prior to quantum rise had close to 2000 supports. it's certainly #1 of all time for ah. that said, there's been a few true threadnoughts over the years that have gotten several thousand posts(most notably, the one on the t20 scandal) - if they'd been in ah instead of general or information portal or one of those, they could likely have gotten to the requisite number."
"bumpie cause they are stil broken"
"maybe limit the use to sec status, only allow covert cyno's in 0.5 or .06 systems. maybe allow covert cyno also to be used in mission/ trough gates aswell... gives advantages and risk,.... bypassing ship restrictions but also allow hot drop risk. the last thing would be hard to implement, maybe allow them only in l4 missions."
"ratting is a reward in itself, with added bonus of sec status, i don't see it as a penalty at all.it is also not about realism but about balance, currently the balance of risk vs reward is skewed, and should be restored."
"as a gallente spec'd player, i support this idea."
"it was rejected (7 votes against, 2 for), largely on the grounds that no coherent case was made for why such a boost was needed, or what form it should take. that's why i have reservations about the op - the current csm seems somewhat determinedly bureaucratic (and in a few cases, determinedly ignorant of game mechanics), and want everything laid out for them just so. a proposal like that in the op (i.e. a straight demand for a buff with no explanation or justification beyond a link to a lengthy thread) doesn't seem likely to go down well."
"excuse me, did you read the thread? if yes, you know that there have been quite the number crunching and data presentation, as well as the justification for specific changes as the 70% spike proposal.i can do a compilation of all the arguments i have presented in this thread, but that has to wait till the weekend, and it will be posted as part of the thread.alternatively, if the csm wants to read the thread, they'll find comparison tables for hacs and bss, baseline fits used to benchmark each bs and hac to each other, and the relevant stats. i cannot append excel spreadsheets to the forum and they don't accept outside references, so they will have to eventually read this or tell me to stop trying to promote it.the analysis that was done is based on real field data (i believe that i can claim that u'k and -a- has a very good knowledge base as far as fleet bs and sniperhacs go, don't you agree?), i do believe that they need to read the threads there were many counter-proposals and point clarification made in it.this proposal has gathered within two weeks more support and views than others have done in months, experienced players w/ both caldari and gallente pilots agree that it is correct (as far as weapon-ammo interaction, it has been unanimous) and ask why the csm takes no interest?they asked for a specific proposal, here is it, numbers included and justified."
"i read and supported this thread, and read/participated in the ships & modules thread that preceded it. i know there's been relatively detailed discussion on the topic, but the op in this thread (i.e. the proposal that the csm would be voting on...) reflects none of that, instead requesting a buff and pointing the reader to a 25 (!) page thread. korvin's hybrid weapons proposal took a similar approach ('buff hybrids plox, here's a link to the full details of and justification for this proposal') and got shot down because there are a few bureaucratic twunts on the csm. i think this proposal is likely to suffer the same fate if voted on by the current csm, more because of the way it's presented than its merits."
"ok, will take that into consideration and present it in a comprehensive way that covers it as much as possible."
"i would rather see the damage left as is, and get the tracking a huge boost to rails. mega should track somewhere in the .005-6 range. that would make rails middle ground tracking between the amarr long range pulse fits and the typical sniper bs fits. then you could have the option to over stuff tc's on a mega and get solid mid/long range advantages.the balance can't keep being about damage for all these ships, all we see from that is constantly higher dps ships, making them then have to examine hp again."
"unfortunately as niches go that isn't a particularily useful one since you're still massively outdamaged by various assortments of laserboats who will still track well enough at that sort of range. also this would clash harshly with the range bonus given to the rokh.as to the concerns of number crunching i'm willing to spit out some more graphs for them if nessesary and/or clean up existing ones to be more clear."
"actually, it would put a rohk to nearly equal damage at better range than a 3 te/ 3hs apoc, for less tracking. it would put a rail mega at about equal range for better damage than a pulse apoc. those 2 ships would win the 100km battles, apoc would still retain the close range damage advantage. both of these ships have the advantage of no tracking penalty from t1 close range ammos rather than scorch to hit out to those ranges for high damage. apoc can swap down to radio, but for a large drop in dps or stay with scorch for more equality in tracking.that defines a role for the ships. if you want massive range dps, use the hyperion, it does 401 dps, similar to all the other bs. boosting rail damage, just screws up that whole tree. tracking creates a niche advantage at mid range."
"see, there is the hole in your logic. these 100km battles? they never happen between bs.only in two situations i have seen bs fitting for 100km, both of which is anti-hac:1) sitting on station undock and shooting at sniperhacs, while they keep distance and transversal, protecting a capital ship that got bumped (provi pets ratting in carriers pretty much, ****ting their pants when one of our hac roams gets them outside their stations)2) gatecamp busting, when you know the rival gang is sniperhac heavy and they sit at optimals.pulse apocs pretty much dominate that domain, because of the dps they can bring to bear. some use tempests w/ 800mm becasue acs are sexy and the ships are fast enough to close in for a kill. both mega and rokh, are not even considered even if their tracking and range is enough, because they lack in damage. unless you increase the damage potential for rails, they will not be usable even in their niche, which is long range. so, instead of trying to change the nature of the guns, why don't we try to fix them where there are lame: damage."
"i'm not sure about the pulse apoc since that's in theory a short(er) ranged weapons system then railguns and thus making your comparison a dissimilar one, both beams and tachyons will thoroughly out damage any rail platform at 100km though so the argument is quite mute, by that same measure i'm sure railguns also outpreform autocannons at 100km. also, if we took your example out to more useful sniping ranges we'd quickly find our dps sinking below that of spike/aurora/tremor, which is part of what pushes everyone to t2 range ammo since it outdamages the longer ranged half of t1 ammo. this in concert with the advantages of blobbing up means that the range that matters is wherever most of the t2 ammo will fall, around 200km or so.that the hype can do 401 damage is great, if it could do it at 200km, which it can't where the apoc will push that same damage out to 212km with relative ease, if i want to not quite make it to 200km i'd much rather be flying the battleship that gets 100 more dps for the range loss, the abaddon. 502dps @ 154km"
"tracking isn't even remotely a problem for railguns imho. blasters yes, arty yes(have they fixed arty yet haven't fired one in almost 6 months), railguns no.the problem here is that the damage output doesn't allow for railguns to outperform the other systems except at a range in which it's damage is so negligible that its largely irrelevant."
"at 150-200km you don't need tracking."
"i'm not so sure on the ops proposal, but i think railguns need a revisit.personally, i'd like to see the dual 150s and dual 250s becoming a mid range, high damage - leaving the 250s and 425s as the extreme range, and the 200s/350s as the lower damage/range 'fitting compromise' option. put the 'duals' in somewhere between blasters and the top tier of guns - in terms of fittings, damage and tracking and - provided you've had a look at the powergrid on the railboats - i'd be inclined to start using them again."
"this would be an ok if other races only got similar changes for their ammo as well."
"odd, minmatar did get a projectile buff. sacrilege and legion gets a 5% damage boost to hams, typhoon has 5% rof, as does the raven."
"still here, still waiting."
"hell yes."
"fix plx."
"i agree, seems like an awful lot of people want something that should have been done a longgggg time ago. why are we still being ignored?"
"agreeing here. don't really mind what gets changed, just _something_ needs to, as rockets are terrible to fit now."
"with the align to bookmarks this could be integrated at the same time."
"that's the exact point of the safe spot is so the pirates can't get you without some work -.-"
"i don't think the people who make this game play it... i mean i can align to anything else in space but not my own damn bookmark?! i understand they screwed up when they added aligning feature in the expansion but to not include this fixed in one of the first patches after release?"
"good idea"
"don't be mislead, they play it definatly, just something they've over-looked, and unlike any other mmo i've ever seen they've actually taken the time to get an entire seperate staff (csm) to actually regulate ideas exactly like this one, and honestly review them, and with enough support and csm reviews they will implement it i'm sure, if they feel it's a good idea. it's all about the faith mate ;)"
"yes please. although id fear my old mission system where i have bms scattered all over the place ...."
"yes please"
"it would be convenient."
"/supported."
"just bumped into this problem myself. kind of defeats the point of having a t3 if you cant change the setups at a pos (in w-space at least).completely support the motion."
"fix the damn sound already. pvp is dull as hell right now, you can't hear anything."
"this man gets what the problem with shield tanks is. the only time when you board a ship and the shields are full is if you board it in a station."
"wreck is owned by the \"final blow\"60 sec timer then open season."
"that would just encourage whoever is attacking to fit high rof guns and stuff.this is just a privateers, \"we camp jita 4-4 and are tired of seeing people loot the stuff we kill and now we are mad!\" thread. let this ret@rded idea flush down the toilet instead or necroing it every time it falls off the top 10 pages of assembly hall."
"i agree that the hel needs to be brought in-line with the other supercarriers, but the op's proposals are inappropriate and also fail to address the hel's obsolete bonus to remote repair modules."
"supported."
"having an option to wardec only to a constellation/region might not be a bad idea since it would allow, say, a small mining corp to fight the rival that keeps mining in the same belts as them without paying the 50 mil wardec fee. or it would let a griefer corp dec only in the jita area."
"i agree very much with malcanis's counter-proposal."
"this makes some sense."
"this is totally why i voted for sok. and i'll do it next time too. -liang"
"i disagree, because there is pvp at every level in eve. ok so shooting rats, missions or mining are pve to a point but as soon as you need to sell your loot you are competing against other players! do not simply treat the term pvp as \"shooting other players in the face\".wardecing does allow (for example) an industrial corp to attack their market competitors directly (or via mercs). it also allows people to disrupt supply chains of larger entities (though much is done via npc corp alts anyway).i felt i had to comment because of the suggestion that wardecs should be mutual because \"all wardeccing against industrial corps is due to people with rl problems\" which is something i find ridiculous"
"i'm sorry... but i am really getting sick and tired of hearing \"wardecs allow industrialists to attack competitors\" as an excuse or an valid argument.that is utter bull**** and you know it.since when has an industrialist corporation ever war-dec'd?in case you people forgot... you make nothing in pvp'ing... there is no profit... ergo... 99% of the indies in high sec won't even bother... they just go somewhere else or hire a merc to deal with the problem.so stop coming up with excuses and assumptions and start dealing in facts.fact - war-decs are dominated by greifers who seek to pvp soft targets.fact - war-decs are dominated by corporations seeking to disrupt logistics in 0.0now maybe i'm just a guy in a cave but i have never heard of an indy corp war-dec'ing an another for indy reasons.pos take down? doesn't qualify... and most hire a merc to handle that.99% of indy corps are always on the receiving end from some pvp corporation or some such.its both hilarious and totally stupid to see people tell me and everyone else \"oh but it allows ______ to do this to an another corp\"wake up... just come out and say it. stop lying to yourselves.you'll live longer.and let me emphasize that while i have an issue with the excuse that i just blew away... it is in no way a valid argument for me to say war-decs should be nerfed... or buffed for that matter.just don't put the blame or reasoning in the equation that wardecs are useful in that context. useful or not... they aren't using it... because there's no point to it."
"um, why would an industrial corp dec anyone? that would be pretty stupid and put their assets at risk for no reason. they pay mercenaries to do the wardeccing.but yeah anyway, well done for working out that most rational people prefer to start fights when they're likely to win......u mad, bro?"
"there is an idea, corps would pay for the ability to wardec per system. each system would cost more then the previous one. this would make wars have a point in high sec to control recources yet make it hard for griefers. costs could be set that it would be impractical to control more then a handful of high sec. only downside is major trade hubs would be constant war systems. (i mean it not like people ever war there.)"
"yes. supported.also maybe an option for a monthly fixed tax instead of/ in addition to percentage tax. i've been in at least two alliances/corporations that require monthly fix taxes on top of the percentage tax. it would be nice if there was a system, similar to bill payment system, that allowed for corps/alliances to set monthly taxes on members, if only to help simplify what it already being done in game."
"seems reasonable."
"i agree.op also reminds me of the fact that those rarely used rigs could use a boost to the point were it actually becomes a viable option to use them."
"signed."
"yup t2 rig bpc's should drop equally in all sizes.this was overlooked when rig sizes were introduced."
"supported and bumped - if fw could be balanced out and the fixing needed could start sooner, rather than way later, perhaps fw's issues might be fixed by the end of the year.the system do not need removal - that won't ever happend with storylines moving on as they do - the system merely needs to get the attentional fixes we as paying costumers deserve.fw can be so much better than it is right now."
"i get the impression that ccp rely on data from the game itself rather than count the number of forum threads.to the op, if you saw the fanfest presentations you might notice that dust is not eve (and thus outside the scope of the csm) and is being developed by a totally separate team in a different country.csm have already voted on a number of fw issues but attempting to tie the release of another game to fw fixes isn't going to get us anywhere"
"can only support this."
"this would finally let me shoot those ninjasalvagers that enter my missions who don't have the guts to go to lowsec.i await your ninja tears!"
"you don't own the salvage produced by the ships you kill. how many times is it needed to say?"
"if you remove concord from deadspace, that means that anyone can come into your mission and gank you without repercussion.trust me, this is not what you want."
"supporting my own proposal"
"i support this proposal. at least make concord simulate scanning out the anomaly/mission grounds. put a 3 minute response time to deadspace, minimum."
"supported. +1"
"epic support!"
"rofl. you know what you are asking for? if your proposal would go through ... then there would be no more mission running as basically everyone would be ganking mission runners or what would be left of them.your stupidity is like space ... unlimited."
"epic! so why don't you go to low sec to run these missions in the first place?"
"supporting an epic troll"
"what an idiot.hell, i'll support it i don't need to run missions to make money. and the tears it will generate in the six months it takes people to realize they got what they asked for instead of what they wanted will make it worth it."
"supporting an idea i have suggested several times"
"supportin the moronic troll!"
"you went full ret@rd, man. never go full ret@rd."
"my opinion :p"
"they follow the telemetry of the attacked ship.in high sec the ship send a distress signal to concord when attacked by other pod pilots. so no need to probe anything.op is either a troll or totally clueless.not supported."
"supporting this so i can farm caldari invulns from mission ships with impunity."
"you're only saying that because you're the alt of a salvage thiefwhy are you so frightened of missioners actually being able to protect their salvage that they own, you thief?"
"and you're only saying that because you had huge slice of tard cake right before posting here.let me get this right, you want no concord in deadspace so mission runners can shoot theives.except you and the op and maybe a couple other people in this thread all had a huge bowl of stupid soup from the same can. this made it so you don't realize that if no concord in missions (deadspace) you all have just turned them all into null sec pockets. you do understand that means anyone, and i mean anyone, can scan you down and come in kill you and then salvage/loot your stuff.wow, have fun with that. if this comes to pass i'm going to go hunt some people down just to stop the spread of the tardism religion.i really hope this is a troll thread, and iq's on eve hasn't really slipped below shoe size."
"you were, unfortunately, infected by the malcanis troll. there is no cure. i suggest biomassing your character so it doesn't spread to your alts."
"the sad thing is, that luck would have it that people are really serious about this motion of removing concord. i would rather take a bite than to ignore it and see it passed and then wonder why i didn't say soemthing."
"people have said lots of things about me, but i recognise a quality post when i see one."
"just look at the name for a hint."
"lol"
"turning high sec into low sec/not supported, even though its a troll"
"only if we can get titan ship models changed to monster trucks can i support this proposal."
"i absolutely support this proposal.1) mission runner gets blown up in mission ds by pirate2) pirate gets gcc ( this is seperate from consord response )3) mission runner closes mission4) pirate is no longer in deadspace5) pirate gets concordokkened for being gcc in high sec :)"
"i'm ok with that."
"but i want that."
"agreeing with the op, though i hope the csm don't take the physical violence part thingy too serious"
"ccp should take a look at the asteroid environment used in star trek online (no, that game is nothing like or even comperable to eve, it's just another game... but visually speaking the environments are stellar compared to eve 'asteroid fields').mining in such an environment would actually be somewhat refreshing, so long as they limited the bouncing-off-roids to the same degree that sto has."
"not supported, mostly because making it more \"interesting\" might very well make it a pain in the ass to do long term. barges are not agile, and need to constantly watch out for suicide gank attempts: being distracted by a minigame or needing to manuever frequently might have the unintended effect of making the profession worse.to get me to support this would have to have barges updated as well to handle a more interesting craft. things like speed or defense would need to be boosted."
"... did you even read what i wrote?this isn't a proposal of how to make mining more interesting.this is a wakeup call to the csm, and hopefully get them to ask ccp what news there are, in case of mining. darius mclever pointed out, that ccp are working on something mining related - seen at the fanfest 09.mining is pretty much the same as it were 7 years ago - it's time for some news. and it can only go too slow."
"after the industrial expansion that wasn't (quantum rise), i was upset at ccp. they have been making some minor in-roads, but the system could use a substantial overhaul. supported."
"i fully support (and would use) a dedicated ore hauler as described by the op.the orca is an awesome ship due to its versitility. but this would be something different.much larger ore only (maybe gas, undecided) hold. but not able to use the fleet bonus highslot modules.semi deicent tanknot able to compress or use mining modules.same or similar mass to an orca.please implement, i am already saving up isk for one"
"mess with insurance payouts and the miners will eat you alive. having insurance not being paid out on concord kills doesn't mess the miners up and fixes the ganking issue.this stuff need way more thought. not supporting as it stands."
"plenty of nullsec pirates have +5.0 sec standing, but otherwise i like the idea. supported."
"1.0"
"not supported. why on earth would you restrict it via sec-status? why shouldn't it just be an offensive action like every other offensive module in the game and have a sec status penalty for use?"
"support."
"uh, this makes no sense. if he is in a pod shouldn't you have aggression on him already, if you have him scrambled and held?as for the ransom i wouldn't mind if it made it easier for pirates to do so, but you are asking us to trust the person who just destroyed our ship not to destroy us for the lulz again after taking our money. with it being impossible for the ransomee to get safe passage or even an honored ransom, something like this wont encourage us to pay you which is the real problem."
"i have to dissagree with that idea.i think pirate's already vgot a nice access for a pirate stuff from lp stores. and i think its enough, i already heard ideas about web-sruptor - web + warp disruptor... oh god, maybe a cafe maker with latte or cappucino?stupid idea, game should be as a poker, u lie or be lied"
"/signed"
"1.0"
"pod scanning is silly. turning off implants is ridiculous. restricting it to people who are -10 is sillydiculous. no, no, no, no, no."
"meh, this is a maybe. the security status idea is ridiculous. the contraband idea on the other hand sounds pretty good. i don't like the idea of adding this to ship scanners; an extra slot should have to be spent on something that would be this powerful of a negotiation tool. just as ship scanners are not cargo scanners, and neither of them are on-board."
"that sounds good. ofc there are few technical issues to discuss, but \"main idea\" is good. nowadays it's hard to get ransom for pods - i'm usually killing them when pilots are trying to bargain with me ;)"
"ahaha thats a great idea.would be great to know if the guys got a set of +3's or a low grade set when you're getting ready to pop that pod"
"what's the point in paying if ransom is not honored?ccp should make a ransom mechanics first, but i'm not sure how it could be done. make target invulnerable once ransom is paid(oh, exploitable)move target to his clone station with his implants intact(say hi to new form of quicktravel)third-party like transfer (hi, this is my alt on the other side of the gate, pay me the ransom again)"
"multiple layers of \"heatsink\" modules, offline modules, and empty slots starts to get a bit ambiguous.couldn't the same thing be achieved by allowing the use of repair paste on active modules?wouldn't that break some of the game-play of repair being mostly between fights?"
"bump"
"see that's just exactly it. it could be implemented in a simple, nongamebreaking way initially that would still go a long way to help immersion. i've been wanting this since 2003, and it is _the_ reason why i did not get involved in the rp side of eve, a few abortive attempts aside. i really just could not make it work when there was nothing that could be done with the slaves.ideally i'd like a more well developed mechanic that affected standings or loyalty points or something, but i'd be happy with anything that made it not completely immersion-breaking."
"perhaps the option to keep the salves and incorporate them as part of your ship. forced crew labor. thus giving you slight attribute pluses to gunnery or other items on your ship.each ship could have only a maximum # of 'crew' it can have at a time ( depends on size of sihp ), and they also die off after time. making you require more - and there you have a valid market price for slaves.freeing them perhaps brings up your security standing or something.using them - brings it down."
"i consider your title to counter itself...\"free the slaves\" - fine\"for the love of god\" - amarr!don't support amarr and don't support slavery at the same time:paaanyways, support because of the poor slaves :("
"it really should be as simple as being able to sell the slaves to the amarr empire (keep them in slavery) or a \"reward\" from gallente/minmatar for turning them in like you get for turning in dog tags."
"agreed. its got to go."
"supported. could you also please change the lighting so that viewing the map from certain angles doesn't wash things out?"
"don't think i've had this problem as i only scan from directly above almost the whole time cept to move them up and down (hate going down below the plane....) but maybe?"
"i already risen this issue, but yes. srsly, how hard can it be?"
"signed the question is why hasnt this already been done"
"makes perfect sense to do this"
"i agree that the system is still exploitable, but the idea is that is at least somewhat functional and not as easy to exploit. regarding the \" convo the target and ask him 'you want to split the bounty'.\" this is a risk as these types of agreements are often not honored in eve.the other thing is that i think you miss read part of my idea- when you get bounty kill rights, they work the same as normal kill rights, the only difference is that when you kill a wanted player, you only receive the bounty on them if you have those bounty kill rights.the 1 vs 1 point you raised is very interesting; currently i sometime spend time with a small fleet in low sec waiting for reds (bounty hunting).sure, this will never be as good as the crime and punishment forum or hiring mercs directly--> but look at the bright side for people already punishing pirates--> hopefully this system will increase the average bounty on a wanted player because they cant just pop themselves when the bounty gets to high (and they want to avoid serious confrontation). sure there are still exploits here, but hopefully implementing the above idea would make the system less exploitable, which is a win for everybody, except for those who are currently cheating the system and avoiding the consequences (infact profiting) from their actions."
"your logic escapes me.you agree its exploitable , but then say it not easy to exploit? if i offer to share the bounty with the bounty target, that's an easy exploit of the system and since its so obvious how can you say its not easy? the second exploit is that if the -2.0 target can still ride around in most high sec and assuming he doesn't get heads up that his contract has been chosen or who chose it the 'hunter' will probably wait until the target is in a non-combat ship before 'collecting'. if you get high sec kill rights on an alliance frieghter because the guy driving it is negative security and all his alliance escort has to stand there and watch you have serious break in game balance. \"sure, this will never be as good as crime and punishment'. then what is it we are talking about here. if there is a better method, why try to have ccp create a new system that will have a very dubious legitamcy. honestly i think you all are just wanting to get off cheap on paying mercs and thats just wrong in itself. part of the reason piracy and low sec don't work well is that market guys rarely hire people to protect their caravans cause it would eat into their margins."
"title explains all.currently you have to manually export fleet loot logs to file using the \"export\" option under the loot log in fleet window.give us the option to automatically export those log without manually clicking on \"export\" every time, just like chatlogs and gamelogs."
"/me suporters"
"supporting"
"seconded ninjaedit: also seconded that self-supporting is gay.at least you're honest enough for not using an alt - or is that yet to come?"
"obviously supporting"
"confirming i'm an alt of someone, and i support actual logging, like real logs.or perhaps have it as a check box, to create these logs.that way people who don't want them and rarely use them can simply uncheck the box."
"the data needs to be stored on the server and api accessable, with fields to show what kind of container the item moved from-to.as it stands data is lost on disconnection."
"for missiles just one upgrade module have, which is the ballistic control system.no flight time upgrade or flight speed modules.the guns can get more optimal or falloff from modules, but missiles cant get anything, just damage+rof modules.should be create for missiles, low slot range modules too.this : missile fuel injector (7.5% missile velocity with stacking penalty if someone using more than one)"
"missiles and guns are different. i see no reason this needs to be added."
"what is your point ? every weapon system need shooting range, that's not different."
"supported"
"drones have only 2 modules and 0 implants while missiles have a full range of implants.i think you can get behind the drone users in the queue for more stuff."
"this"
"you fail.drone link, tracking cpu, navigation computer. i think this is not 2.and one more thing. yes drones need more love too, i wrote so many times, but please tell me, how came here, drones how much modules have ? that's restrict the missile upgrades ? if something wrong need fix, like missing drone implants and combat drone rigs, missing cpu rig, missile flight time or speed modules etc.this is just one thing which need to revise, like anything else."
"no way, there are no slots to fit extra modules.i'd support getting new missile variations which have more range/less damage; maybe replace worthless precision ones with that."
"this ^^^ i like."
"target painters are very nice for missiles. missiles already have pretty good range, which you can increase considerably with rigs.an explosion velocity script for tracking computers would be nice though..."
"a turret sniper is dedicated to range with no tank.a cruise raven setup for long range is well ... a cruise raven setup for any range.the option to swap a midslot (tank) for say a 30% velocity bonus would be good."
"i'm for a mid-slot missile speed boost. with it, missile ships might have a use in ranged fleet fights (which is to say the missiles might get to a target before it blows up)."
"lol, you are right i forgot the tracking nerfing aka navigation computer module. for the rest of your post, seeing how ccp tend to fix one thing at a time, yes i want drones ahead of missiles. missiles are fairly well equipped with the rigs and hardwires. what need to be addressed is some t2 ammo and rockets. they don't need a blanket add to all missiles module. we especially don't need again torpedoes hitting at 80 km. note that the op is asking for \"flight time upgrade or flight speed modules\", essentially a way to get missiles further away and in less time. range is already a strong point of missiles and flight speed is already at the max possible for the eve engine. so i don't see anything in the op proposal that can help missiles or can be implemented, unless what he want are 80 km toprpedos like in the past."
"i'm new to eve, but i'm surprised this is not implemented yet. one of the most common things to do after running a mission is to sell all the loot you acquired from it. this basic idea has been proposed before:"
"support"
"plz this would be so helpful and reduce frustrations with the ui."
"support"
"this is a fantastic idea. i support this idea."
"do it!"
"there should be an option for removing yourself from 'local chat'otherwise this gives experienced players / older players a huge advantage to us newbies.i cannot go explore any space <= 0.4 because as soon as i enter the space ( which i am not protected in anyawy by concord)...i show up in local chat.any pvp players in the same solar system just have local chat open. they see me appear, and go look for me at all the jump gates and then expand search.they should have to 'run into me' in the same jump point ( like an asteroid field) or something instaed of knowing they are not alone.and i shouldnt know they are there either unless i run into them.i dont stand a chance in <= .4 space unless i have been playing for years."
"to many pvpbears and nullbears whine , so its not going to happen.obviously its broken and there was plenty of topics about it."
"it would be as simple as making someone have to probe to see what ships are around the system or something if someone is hidden. just like scanning for other anomolies.i don't feel like having the need to play the game for 'years' or be forced to join a big 'corp' ( instead of going at it alone ) just to be able to 'explore the game'.it makes the game ( for me anyway ) un-appealing because i will never be able to put in the amount of 'time' that hard core games do. if they find me -yes they have better ships - than can kill me. that is part of the game. but first they have to know i am \"there\" to find me."
"this and variants of this have been proposed about a billion times. it's not happening, at least not in anything like as simple a format as you suggest."
"come on, you supported the silly \"skill to reduce the signature radius of pods\" proposal!it's pretty obvious that ccp would not do a simple delayed local without updating other mechanics (such as the directional scanner) - they have stated as much. current local does need to go, in 0.0 at the very least, everywhere ideally."
"not bad"
"like it"
"smile like you win eve :d"
"awesome idea man"
"huh, getting isk for pvp?somethings not right here...oh well, i don't see any downsides of this.except smaller corporate wallets, but that's something the ceos/da boss' or directors/officers have to work with."
"do this."
"clean and simple. likee."
"good idea"
"like it!"
"."
"nice idea, good work"
"loverly."
"i like it ! ;)"
"nice idea"
"i would love to be able to pay mercenaries this way as well."
"there could be some thought to a pirate allowed to recieve a bounty from another pirate.if you are a pvp killer - concord should not transfer the bounty amount to your account.this would prevent you from putting a high bounty on a pvp killer, and his buddy kills him so they can split the profit."
"i have been thinking about it for a while and what would be nice is a system that functioned through contracts that is very much like buying a hunting license and getting tags. using the contract system would allow people to exchange anything for the service, auction the service, and privatize the service to corporations or individuals if desired.you could make then the person who accepts the tag doesn't get paid until that person generates a kill mail that matches the conditions laid out in the tag. the conditions could be based on individual person, corp, ship type, or a combination there of. seems like a better solution than the bounty system and allows people to fight proxy wars."
"sounds cool but it'd obviously need some tweeking."
"if you've ever tried to anchor a tower in a 0.4, on in highsec, you will by now, have found it's practically impossible for any corp to accomplish - practically every non-alt in eve has done at least a few missions - enough that they've got a tiny amount of standings with every faction.the net result is that it's next to impossible to achieve the standing required to anchor a tower in any corp that isn't made of alts for the express purpose of launching a tower. and even then, you need to be phenomenally careful that none of them picks up a 0.1 faction standing anywhere.i quite like the idea that factions only let people they like anchor towers, but i'm less enthusiastic about the notion that - in practice - you're forced down the 'alt' route. so i'm asking for the corp standings mechanic to be revised - to be something other than the average of the members in it - because that means almost every 'real' corp has even very high standings massively diluted. i can't think of quite how it off the top of my head, but i'd really like to see something that counts 'really low' standings, as negligible. even as simple as excluding everyone with an absolute standing of less than 0.5 would help a great deal.i'd prefer though at corp that had mostly members who weren't too negative in standing, and a few people who were really high standing - would have a reasonable 'corp' standing. perhaps something like a sum of squares (modified by positive and negative, otherwise it would be daft), capped out by the average of the top 10% members of the corp? so people who were 'around zero' wouldn't really make much difference, but people who were really high (or low) standing would substantially skew the overall standing. for bonus points, that would have a similar effect on standings for jump clones. i know that it wasn't supposed to be easy to get a highsec tower. i'm not really suggesting that that be overly changed - thing is though, practically speaking it's _very_ easy - i just move one high standing into a corp on it's own, anchor the tower and then we're done. if there were a minimum number of people needed as 'caps' for the average, that would actually make it somewhat harder to 'alt', which i cannot help but feel is desirable - there's already enough reasons to run industry with alts as it is."
"if cosmos was remade as an epic arc players might run them"
"if cosmos goods were made worth a tinker's damn people would bother with them again."
"you know how to get around this? jump from one war dec corp to another. rotate the corps and keep that corp war decced forever. costs are the same. the only down side is a long employment record."
"can i have your eyes? the blue text is almost blurred, the orange is a lot easier to read."
"when in 0.5 systems and higher, remote anything (repairing, sensor boosting, etc) only works on members that are in your non-npc corporation."
"so your alliance mates can't rr you or your pos?they should share the eventual aggression flag. end of the matter."
"seems to me tri went to play with privateers and burned themself a bit?"
"probably a roleplay prostitute"
"i am already contacting fox news in case your proposal gets through."
"oh, ok my fault. right, no flagging after steal is griefing, mayby a bug i don<U+FFFD>t know.what i mean is: ninja looting is not griefing."
"thisitem tabs"
"yes, people hate on missiles because you could outrun them, and they don't hit instantly. sadly or no, these things make much less difference these days. also, it's quite possible to hit extraordinary dps levels with short-range missiles and certain common ships (drake, etc.).presently the following defenses work against gunships: ecm, sensor dampening, and turret disruption.the following defenses work against missile boats: ecm, sensor dampening.defenders were supposed to be a defense against incoming missiles, reducing their damage somewhat, but not negating it. they simply don't work, and therefore deserve to be either fixed or deleted.it's possible that missiles would need to be rebalanced somewhat around a \"working\" defender system. the nitty-gritty details are as always in ccp's hands.--krum"
"<delete me>"
"bad idea, guess proposed by people who want to steal \"secure\" stuff, maybe have a hacking ability, all set at 23 hours, the owner is alerted to the hacking, then the owner and his corp can respond, if the hacker is bumped off the can, the timer resets :)"
"it still isn't clear to me why on the csm wiki page for the proposal on the increased fleet size the text from my proposal was copied to the letter, except the actual proposed solution. the raw logs only show that tea mentioned the discrepancy (thank you tea, especially since you do not approve of the proposal), but nothing was done about it. it's not that i couldn't live with the altered proposal, but there has been no transparency at all on the reason for this seemingly arbitrary modification. looking at the contributors for the wiki page, this critique for lack of methodology goes specifically to elvenlord and isd salpsan."
"problem you pointed out is an existing solid one, but solution on the other hand was not quite there.after some unofficial discussion with other csm members and more then few players (some of them where fcs of those big gangs) we/i changed the solution to the issue. it was proposed and passed by the csm as it is now, and we feel it will solve the problem."
"not only is this awesome, but it would actually make anchoring and running a pos enjoyable.doooo ittttt."
"unlike mining, which is still all reward no risk, u can't afk rat."
"agree with proposal. insurance system must be revamped, so no pay off for self-distract or concord kills, slightly less isk for t1 and more for t2 and t3."
"when the eve community stops caring about what happens in eve is when eve is dead. bumpedit, think i must of hit report instead of quote the first time :/"
"not a bad idea, though long range class rails will still need a boost or have the lock limit removed to have their range advantage be meaningful. the key problem is that range alone without some sort of damage isn't useful, the entire concept of being superior at some range is by doing the most damage at that range, for rokhrails this is beyond the lock limit and this never happens for megarails."
"so, i decided to see what each member of the csm flies, to get a better idea of what weapons they are used to.elvenlordneut dominixcarriers/supersceptorsrailgun megathronalekseyev karrdeceptorsbombersblaster ishtarzastrowrail rokhteadazeac hurricanestorp typhoonstacklersmrs trzzbknon-combat character and/or altkorvindisco bssrail megathrongilaz0dnon-combat character and/or altsong linon-combat character and/or alt. but, the general lack of kb could simply be misleading.sokrateszwyvernhelen highwater (added because he was in the csm discussion on the previous proposal)rail megathroni was originally going to compare the fits of different csm members to railgun ships, but it looks like many fly railgun ships primarily. several on the csm are personally familiar with the failings/strengths of rails (probably more than the kbs show). surprisingly few fly amarr/minmatar actually. so, we'd have to use some standard fits to make a useful graph. so, if the proposal is provided with better (more concise) detail (rather than a giant thread) and maybe some pretty graphs, this should pass the csm.i'll put together a sniper dps graph with eft later today."
"my full support for lowsec boost!also, logistic pilots shoudn`t be engaged by sentrys or loose sec status because of supporting an outlaw when in same corp."
"supported. outlaw would be much better than the tyrannis, also known as pos monkey.plus lowsec needs something unique about it, not just increased risks significantly without increased rewards."
"except that they forced their own hand with tyrannis by announcing dust 514. where as with low-sec and fw they know through experience they can let it languish and drift aimlessly with little of consequence to trouble themselves with."
"good ideas, low sec need it."
"i support the idea for a better lowsec"
"/signedvery good ideas!"
"although i am not a pirate, this idea has my full support."
"good ideabut dont touch ransoms!this is deal between victim and pirateother things...pirate faction agents should be stay in 0.0 and give lp for all outlaw players who killing players with 5.0 standingadd to your idea my pirate scanner mate!"
"i support this product :)"
"point 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7totaly agreethe rest is too much 0.0. low sec is empire. you cant claim empireregions or systems. and i dont see any reason to do it. the rest is a realy good system to boost low sec without hitting high- or nullsec. like it."
"signed"
"many ideas i do not realy like. but low sec needs a boost! much more than the stupid planetthing, so signed."
"please remember to tick the support button on your posts guys get lowsec the love it needs, and not in a fw kind of way..."
"sounds good"
"i couldn't agree more!"
"right so.vote for \"outlaw\"."
"hell yeah!"
"voted"
"this is my old proposal, should be join to \"outlaw project\"this idea is only a sketchif you like it we do it jointlycan this idea was already, i dont knowmy dream:pirate npc corporations(for example : blood raiders, guristas pirates, angel cartels)would be avaliable only for the truth pirates (players who set creates a pirates).i'd like these npc agents to give pirates (the players with standing -10)missions where purpose would be another playerplayer with a high standing, who makes missions against pirate npc corporation(blood raiders, guristas pirates, angel cartels ... etc)for example:if the player \"gothard'de belle\" will take mission where the aim will be blood vessels ridersand if this mission will be in low sec or 0.0, then my npc pirate agent in the region that i am in, should immediately send me an e-mail that this person took such missions and blood riders ask me for help in getting rid of a strikerif it was in another region then my npc pirate agent should give me a bookmark to my region's opened worm hole to \"constellations\" in which the player is taking a mission ...i know, i'll have a little time but glad to try :)as i get to this constellation then i will be scanning systems for a strikeri should also have facilitated scanning the player on a mission as easy as it was in the safe spotthis is dark side of evealternativelyplayers with high standing, a minimum of 5.0 should have access to agents npc concordif a player has a lower security status should not have access to these missionsthese agents could give bounty hunting missions for playersagents bounty hunter story line should be in high secbounty hunting mission objective should be a pirate (player)cooperating for the example with (the blood raiders, guristas pirates, angel cartels ... etc)bounty hunting missions should be available at the moment he accepts pirate player mission (assasinate)then the agent bounty hunter would give a bookmark to the worm hole that leads to a constellation of which may appear the pirate (pirate player)npc agents could assign bounty to pirates which eliminate player on their missionsthese agents could also propose to the player-pirate's victim to put some bounty on the pirateit would be a part of reward for bounty hunter who killed the piratefor a few days after taking the mission bounty hunters could receive messages from their concord agents about the location where the wanted pirate is currently docked"
"good ideasmake low sec more interesting for everyoneu can earn trillions in highsec, u can earn quadrillions in nosec but u only can earn earn peanuts in lowsecmake the game overall better and boost lowsec!"
"support-button, right!"
"good ideas. please make the lowsec a batter place"
"7: have lowsec borders between all the empires, or at least the empires who are at war, so there is no 'safe' route for people, this way people would actually hire escort personel to protect haulers, another career opportunity. smugglers would also be employed in such places...is the best part.100% support"
"some good points!"
"i also would like to add that any standing changes should not be affected in 0.0.basically if you don't take standings hits for killing people in 0.0 then you should not get a standings increase for killing rats there either."
"/signeddefinately some interesting ideas here..."
"+"
"a little late to this game but here goes anyway.while i agree that low sec needs some love most of the ideas presented here simply don't seem that useful to me. the best way to get people into low sec is to give them an incentive to go there.more ideas like adding low sec only pos mods like pleasure hubs which take hookers and booze like current pos's take ice and less of everything else. the idea of adding in mods that use up the various trade goods which now languish in cargo holds everywhere is a great idea.supported in principle, though i disagree with some of the suggestions."
"i support this!"
"/signedwe need more love in lowsec."
"(1/2)i like the idea to limit pirate faction ships to low/0.0 sec only but it is allready too late for this and it would **** off a lot of players so the idea is sadly unreasonable. however i would like to extend the ideas in the starter post with a proposal of a new ship type that can only used in lowsec.new ship claas : electronic remote access dronessieze : between a small/medium drone but piloted by a playerthe purpose is to enforce the target to eject his cargo and/or his pod!the small manned drone vessels will be able to dock on the hull of a target (i have the pictures of matrix i in mind when the bots try to capture the hoover ship). the requirement is shields below 30% and successfully warp disrupted. depending on the taget sieze you will need multiple drones in order to make this working, vague values later. when the necessary ammount of drones have docked on the tagets hull a interface will become available for the attackers containing a list of all modules and critical systems. by clicking on a system or module you start to disable it funktion wich take some time. if successful the module is offlined by consuming its hitpoints to zero (same as overheat effect). apart from modules there are several internal systems that can be offlined. - delf destruct ability this can only disabled if the pilot initiate it. the basic chance to disable it is 75% and it can be raised to 99% by skills. but a swift reaction is needed because the disable timer is only slightly lower than the destruction timer. - trustersthe ability to fly sublight speed can be disabled here. its one of the early targets because it prevent the prey to get back to gate or station.when disabled the max velocity is 0 but the ship could still go in warp when the warp disrupters are taken off. - cargohold emergency ejectwhen successfully hacked all the cargo will drop in a special container, far enough from the prey to scoop it back. frighters can not eject cargo they can only captured or destroyed! after the cargo eject the target ship will become unlockable and invulnerable and go instant in a emergency warp to a deep safespot and it get an additional a 1 hour cloak like the one you get after a gate, until it moves. the trade off here is 100% cargo but no ship kill (including fitting) versus killed ship but parts of the cargo destroyed. to pull this off a good attack team need about 10-15 minutes. note : not every target is worth time and effort to treat it this way. its about freedom of choice, if you think its worth your time do it, or you just pop it and scavenge the leftovers as usual. - enforced emergency eject when successfully hacked the targets pilot will ejected from his former ship and the pod will become unlockable and invulnerable and warp instantly to a deep space spot where it is additional cloaked up to 1 hour until it move. the ship is free to board to whoever can grab it. a good attack crew will need about 30-40 minutes to board a ship. thats a lot of time for reinforcments sound easy to capture a ship, feeling to yarr out lout ? well it is hard work and it need a big support crewthe capture drones have the signature and the velocity of a medium drone, they can be locked, shoot at and die real quick.they can even shoot after docked on your hull wich make a standing target. they can be smart bombed wich is a real horror, they can attacked with drones, fof missiles and minmatar turrets still fire, even without cap not talking about cap boosters wich should the absolute primary to disable first when smartbombs are fitted. after all its hard work and its supposed to be hard."
"good ideas. i support it."
"(2/2)so you need warp distupters, neutralizers, ecm and small boats that take care real quick of launched drones. while it is optional to disable any modules it might be a good idea to incap weapons, cap boosters and other modules that could break the sige. of course that extend the time of the operation and a big retribution fleet might just a few jumps away. that means some battle ready escort might a good idea too. thats certainly a lot of effort involving a bigger group of people to capture a ship successfully. more effort worth to gank the random 0815 guy because that where a real pain and would **** people off. its not meant to become the number one choice of pirating everything. the focus is more about faction fitted ships or juicy cargo or careless marauder/dreads/carrier that ratting in lowsec. imagine this complex fitted vargur worth 6 billion fall into your hands unharmed. that justify a crew of 15 pilots or more to bring it down. to spice it up, due the sieze of the vessel there is no space for a pod. however all functionality a pod provide is supplyed by the ship itself. think of it as a pod with extended functionality. however if the ship go boom you wake up on station. the safety layer of a additional pod is not provided. tough stuff for tough guys (and space girls) the ships can only bought and used in lowsec and npc 0.0 space because this are the only systems that recive a carrier signal provided by the local pirates that is needed to make the hack software working. thats the insurance the pirates installed to make sure their invention wont turn against them. some stats :target need to be warpdisrupted and the shields must be constant below 30% to make the electronic capture vessels able to dock and work. if a criteria is not meet anymore the docked boats will repelled and can not redock until the criterias are meet again. if you docked on your prey you see his interface, when you click on a module a timer apears (depending on the module and sieze of the module between 30 seconds and 5 minutes) and when it meet zero the module is offlined/have 0 hitpoints. you have also the buttons to eject loot, pod and disable subwarp speed. this timers run between 5 - 30 minutes and have a percentual based success chance that means they can fail and need another cycle simillar to salvaging. the ship skill(rang 4) and a new skill(rang 3) under electronics can significant raise the success chance. you get access to the interface only when the minnimum requirement of electronic capture ships docked on the target. if 2 or more ships offline the same module on the target it will offlined faster. there can be more ships dock on a target than the minnimum requirement, that help to speed up the capture process. electronic attack vessels needed to capture a ship (not fixed, just an example) :shuttle = 1 interceptor = 1 (max 2)frigate/assault frig = 2 (max 3)cruiser = 3 (max 5)battle cruiser (4 max 6)battle ship/marauder (6 max 9)carrier/dread (12 max 16)....titan (40 max 60) to boost the pirates a requirement to get into the ship should be a sec status below -5 and the ship should available exclusive above the black market mentioned in the starter post of this thread."
"lowsec definitly needs love, that is obvious even for a 0.0 pilot like me"
"/signvery good ideas. at the moment lowsecs are just ridiculous..."
"don't forget to check the \"support\"-box while posting you ******s! every vote counts! lowsec needs you!"
"signed"
"whoops okay +1support :p"
"+1 thumbs up.dont like all of them, but its a good start.11. pirate stations that only give docking rights to flashy reds."
"bump for an outlaw expansion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"i use a raptor with standard missile launchers cuz i get more range then small guns (no gun skills) and also, with the crow, i cant hit most intercepters cuz the rockets dont have enough range."
"this is kytanos termek and i approve this message."
"bumping for moar rocklet goodness."
"i'm for the change. the system should be improved."
"/signed, i want to share my 600 au safe spots"
"supported."
"i support this!!!also, could we get the ability to make folders inside folders for our bookmarks? i have a folder for xxx km away from a gate, and i have tons of bookmarks away from gates but i dont like having 20 bookmarks in the same system for the same gate. and i dont like makeing more and more folders."
"so you don't like making more folders, but want ability to make folders inside folders?? logic fail? =p thanks for support though ;)"
"/signedsuggestion: make safe spots towards, yet beyond, planets, moons, gates, and the sun. this fools inexperienced pursuers into warping to those larger bodies, and delays their probing you down for a few more seconds."
"isn't that what the \"warp within 100km\" is more or less about? granted it doesn't take you out of range of sight, but if your 100km off, not much they can do and basically works on the same principle."
"i'm talking a safe spot lined up with an orbiting body, yet hundreds of thousands of (not hundreds of) kilometers out."
"no, i want to make a folder inside a folder instead of just haveing a hugh list when i right click in space."
"hansu, that is possible, mid-warp to something, have your people and places opened up, and while in warp click \"add bookmark\".also, you said \"i don't like making more and more folders\" is what i was commenting on"
"fix the sound already :)bump to the top."
"supported. i have prety much all of the problems listed in the op."
"i support this !what we need is software stereo downmix option in audio options.this will re-route all sounds from 7.1 directx accelerated sound to stereo output only.this feature allready was in the game:please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"totally 100% support."
"supported"
"i support most/all of these ideas."
"line breaks are your friend apollo ;)"
"no i think his point is that the industrial corp argument is used to justify the need for hi-sec wardecs, and it really isn't something that happens. so he's annoyed when it is used as a counter-argument."
"so the freedom to avoid a war by 'chickening out' makes this game great? no it does not. this would be a horrible idea. how about we make it so you can't pvp someone unless they lock you back and push the fire button!? in real life i declare war on you, aw you don't want war. i'm sorry we don't have war.the brutal truth is war is hell."
"remind me to buy you a drink when wis comes out.o7"
"oh... my... gawd just f-ing surrender the damn war -.- this thread has gone on too long and is not going to go through, so can it be dropped already please? cheezus...."
"just make war-decs more expensive. that will filter those corps that have legit reasons from pansy pvp corps that are to chicken to fight in low-sec. triple war-dec fees and make the costs increase exponentially after the first week."
"i have a sneaking suspicion that to take part in the tyrannis land grab, players will need to be in a player corp. as it is intended that planetry interaction has a low barrier to entry i forsee lots of new shiny corps, all ready to be decced"
"i'd just like to quote this for it being the same reason sok got my vote.also, the lack of support in this thread warms the ****les of my (war deccing) heart."
"there are some good ideas here but it seems a few people who do not want this passed are trolling in order to prevent the more mature people from actually seeing the good ideas."
"supported.there should be no war decshigh sec should be just like 0.0"
"before moving to 0.0, the industrial corp i was in did it often to keep competitors out of the area and to keep belts from being cleaned out before we could get to all the shiny rocks in them.pretty much false. ganking freighters is huge profit. spend a day or two ratting to get the sec back and gank another. wardecing an industrial corp who doesn't hide and fights back poorly is also huge profit. not allowing pvp players to wardec empire corps would reduce the ability of small pvp corps to have income, definitely.it sounds like you take war decs personally. they are almost always profit driven - whether by a competing industrial corp or a pvp corp. even in 0.0, most wars are over scarce resources (i.e. profit driven).did this on a regular basis when i was in an indy corp so we could control omber mining, later to control a drone plex which was the source of high end minerals for manufacturing. if you are in an indy corp and aren't pushing your weight around a little (if you don't have people who can fight in your corp, then at least by hiring mercenaries to do it for you), you are doing it wrong.true for the most part. poss in high sec usually don't have the guns to be a threat to even a pile of mission runners.again, pvp corps have to make money too. either they are making money off your loot or they are making money on a mercenary contract taken out on you.yeah, you pretty much ended up sounding like a dumb industrialist. no one can differentiate products in eve, so the only way you control margins is through scarcity... usually created by muscling out competition. pvp wars are cheaper than price wars."
"i sympathise with the op, but unfortunately you are starting from false perspective. new eden is a dangerous place filled with people whose sole aim is to make your wealth/reputation less than thiers. i own a corp that could be considered \"industrial\" but we've never been dec'd (that'll change after this post ). however there are many things you can do to avoid/dissuade combat. the best is mobility. working in hek and dec'd by a corp, mine in amarr space. will they follow, unlikely, chances are they based in mini space too. you are industrialists, therefor high int and mem, ewar your enemy out of the game. train up trade skills, and fly outposts. make money while they lose it on an impotent dec. this way you turn thier strength (combat) into a weakness, whilst they force you to play to your strengths. so no, don't support the motion."
"we also need to remember that the \"treaty\" mechanic is supposed to be implemented before long so entering into a mutual defense pact may be something that is already on the horizon."
"i support this idea. maby the ability to do a percentage tax, like take a percentage of the corp tax, like when a corp tax is 10% and the allaince tax is 1% then the allaicne tax takes from the corp tax."
"i support this idea 100%. it would be so simple to get the taxes and would make sure that executor corps are not relying on member corps to send the isk all the time. great idea i hope that this is put into effect."
"not a bad idea."
"goon alt detector going off the charts here."
"i think this is a good time to bump this topic, given that the gallente militia just reclaimed intaki."
"intaki was retaken, player action is there."
"planet spin is already in the game. it's just slower then it used to be, which is a good thing imo. just to check myself i just flew around oursulaert and every planet with visible land/ice mass was unquestionably spinning."
"low priority, dont overrule anything more important to look at it. but with tyr around the corner maybe you can assign a dev or two to fix it."
"this guy must be working on the next expansion with ccp and doesn't want more of a workload. i agree if ccp wants to add new features as so it should be based more on a realistic aspect. back to your drawing board gents."
"i totally agree.i live in a cataclysmic wormhole system, which means 2 stars and an environmental phenomena (which looks like a 3rd star, but i guess it's more like a halo).in our star system we can only warp to the main star, not to the other one.it would be nice indeed to have both stars in the planetary overview, 'cause both stars are physically/visually there.not quite right, i think. as far as my knowledge go, dual stars are mainly close to each other, in very close orbit. if not, the gravity disk will be too unstable to allow orbiting planets.why not planets around both stars? impossible. the gravity disks of both stars has become one, in the same direction as the stars orbit each other. so only 1 gravity disk remains to allow planets orbiting, with both stars in the center.a planet that should cross in between both stars will be ripped apart, due to the gravitation of those stars.but so far my theory. :)i agree ccp should stick a bit closer to physical laws and shift the order of the planets so it makes sence.thanks for bringing this up!"
"most definitely supported."
"which brings up the point that both stars should be in the center of each system, if these systems are supposed to be binaries. planets would most likely be ejected (or live a short life in degenerating orbit) from the system if their orbit fell between two stars."
"nuff said on the stupidity level"
"totally supporting this. it will remake the ninja salvaging profession as we know it, and only in a good way.please ccp i would love to shoot... uh... ninja salvagers... with no consequence. oh wait no i mean ."
"full support!take concord out of empire for one day a year while your at it."
"unsupported for this reason!"
"sure, maybe you do, but trust me, he doesn't."
"ok."
"supporting everything in this thread."
"no. i think you need a new alt to troll, this one is getting old."
"uhm, we have this already, it is called a lowsec mission/complex/deadspace ...we could of course just remove all the security ratings and make everything 0.0 ...but, no, not supported."
"i don't know if we can bump these but i would be curious if we could get some more imput."
"there should be no mechanics special for ransom, it is just deal between victim and the pirate"
"not needed but definitely wanted!"
"i believe that picking color from a range of presets should allow for this addition not to add too much strain on the server, eve has to evolve some day. so i support this. if i am by any chance wrong.. well. then it will not be done. please remember that you cannot really compare eve where you can have over 1k people in a single fight with most modern fps games. it just works in very different ways."
"ok a few things first off:adding a custom paint job to a ship will increase resource request, and bandwith on the sever side. it does not have to deal with the r/b/g pushes from server to client. imagine this: current: 30 ships zone into a system, the server keeps track of each ship, and its assocaited pilot. then parses a relitivly static (and archived) database that holds the r/b/g colors for all ship models, for the 30 different ships that load into the system.customized ship modles: the same 30 ships zone into a system. the server again keeps track of each ship and its pilot. it then has to parse a dynamic database for both the ship name, and the associated pilot, inorder to reterive that pilots custom pallete. now loading 30 ships would not be a hunge issue. but loading 600 ships, would cause more fleet lag then their currently is, due to the fact that the database would have to parse millions, upon millions of enteries, instead of a few hundered. one solution here would be to allow for \"local\" palete settings. so you could customize your ship, but all other ships would be the default color pallete.i do beleive it would be a cool and novel idea, (wtb red and black paint...), but the server issues have to be addressed first and formost before this can even be considered"
"that's like saying that if you get a bigger car you need more pain to colour it. ofcource you will have more database enteries. the question is if it will have a 2% impact on performance or 50% hit. as none of us know exactly, i suggesting leaving performance aspect of this proposal alone, as ccp is probably the only entity that can aswer this question exactly. instead, we should simply state that we whant more colour, and ccp will tell us if it is possible or not."
"you realize you are talking about 96 bits of data right (per color)? three integers per ship. even if the system ended up with 2000 people in it, that's 24kb of data. it doesn't send that continuously either, just when it sends the info on what is currently on-grid when you are warping in or when something new warps in.this is not going to break the server. i just don't want to see bright pink megathrons.i would be in favor of allowing people access to the other paint schemes any given ship has. see bottom of blog."
"loading grid....loading ships....loading skins....loading skins....loading skins....loading skins....loading skins....loading skins....loading skins....loading skins...."
"how about replace the current black plane with a clear one such as the tactical overview?"
"also an idea, previously suggested and i suppose since this is second upbringing about it, it could be implemented as a fix. the planet orbits more or less do this, but not in a nice neat line like tac view, and that would be immensely more helpful, as an orientation tool to have have many au it is."
"this one: press the [esc] key on the upper left of the keyboard and play with those options."
"still becomes difficult to see when you have multiple probes out and the shadows overlap, not sure if you've ever tried finding a particularly hard sig, and had to deploy more drones, the shadow makes it nigh impossible to detect the underlying boxes."
"supporting fixing bounties in general. almost anything would be better than the current system.i think this specific proposal has merit, but placing bounties being limited by killrights would be more flexible than -2.0 sec status."
"i like the idea. i had also a bounty hunter career path in mind. my idea was though base it on sec status.especially the detail here stated makes sense just for the fact that those groups can do big damage with actually very less effort.the most important thing is to me that the system is not abused to make one man wardecs against people who didnt do anythink of that sort:i also would stretch the idea a bit further.say one has been ganked with his hulk. loss will be some 190 misk (strips including).well a \"normal\" bounty would cause the ganker to loose a ship eventually including character (implants if any). but the lost value could be again much less then the ganker cost.my addition therefore would be as follows:say i lost 200 million to a ganker. i want the ganker to loose 200 million value as well + the bounty i pay for him. i would be paying say 50 million bounty causing that the headhunter mission is fullfilled only when the ganker lost 250 million value. the 50 million would be the minimum value for a value loss above 200 million.above 200 million value it would be a definate lvl 4 mission with 50 million bounty. above 50 million value a lvl with 10 million bounty. lvl 2 or below dont have that feature.i am sure ccp would find a basic loss value system for that. that could also be an official restraint. add this official loss value to the killmail which is the maximum loss value + the minimum bounty for that case.further, and i am aware that it sounds old but it fits here, people with bounties on their head should have no insurance cover. i mean lets face it. if people want to get rid of their bounty, they would buy a raven or whatever and let themselfs be shot and are done with the bounty. that would just render the bounty system useless, cause they get their money back."
"/signed&/supported"
"supporting... does this affect lag at all though?"
"you gotta check the support box.allow me to demonstrate."
"nothing would change in the server-client communications. the only thing that would change would be the client way of storing the loot logs."
"supporting, and not because boomer has my family held hostage, either."
"i support"
"seems reasonable enough to me."
"split weapon systems are ******ed.nobody uses projectiles on the typhoon.swap the projectile rof bonus for a drone damage bonus."
"your post is \"******ed\"not supporting.<--- typhoon pilot"
"no."
"not to counter your argument, but i do mount projectiles on my typhoon.not supported."
"who really wants to use missiles anyway?"
"definitely not supported.minmatar pilots need to train projectiles more heavily than missiles, so if anything goes, it's the damn launchers."
"thanks for speaking for all typhoon pilots, depending on role i fit turrets and/or launchers and/or smarties i think the new turret / launcher changes have made this ship more flexible than trying to focus it as either missiles or turrets. yes you do lose one bonus if you fit only one type of weapons but it is only a tier one bs and even with those limitations is still perfectly viable.to get the best out of it you need t2 heavy/sentry drones, t2 launchers and t2 turrets which is why minmatar are not easy mode..."
"not supported typhoons are fine as they are now. the phoon is one of the most versatile bs in my book. yes you have split weapons on it but no one said you should fitt them with both missiles and guns though it will make a close range dps monster if you dothing out of the box and then tell me its a bad ship"
"instead of trying to ruin a flexible ship type, i.e. split weapon ships.how about for the extremes such as the typhoon, we ask for the bonuses to be 7.5% instead of the current 5%that way it balanced out the fact that the two bonuses are effectively just one."
"wtf?typhoon really seems to be a good ship, i do not fly it myself, but alot of my mates do, and they do it well. i would not mind it, but i don't think it is nessesary."
"not supported. the typhoon is an exceptional t1 teir 1 bs. the split weapon system and bonus' makes it a very unpredictable ship to go up against. its versitility is fantastic and should be on more minmatar ships.the only thing i feel the phoon needs is a smidge more pg although, thats what you get when you buy and fly the fleet issue version."
"fail again. do you think ccp can concentrate just one thing ?torpedos to 80 km ? you can calculate it for me, how much low slot upgrade need for it with 7.5% upgrade with stacking penalty from raven ? (i whisper for you 4 modules at 40km range will be add for you +8.7766km with this 7.5% data)oh and wait, if you need minimum 4 for ~9km at 40km range, how can use damage modules too ?you used it rockets, heavy assault missile or torps when the ship not add for you any + bonuses for range ?range or damage is this suggestion main point.when you use range module in low slot you must sacrifice a low slot.maybe should be an another solution, script for ballistic control system: range or damage/rof"
"1) i see a request for 2 kind of effects, an increase in speed and an increase in flight time. 2) \"range module in low slot\" so they should be low slot modules? convenient. note that tracking computers are middle slots. 3) 80 km can be an exaggeration, but with missiles you get ungodly ranges for a short range system and even more ungodly ranges for the long range [again rockets are an exception,but they should be addressed alone, not with a general change in missiles], especially as you can pile up the hardwirings that aren't stack nerfed with modules and the rigs that are stack nerfed with them. 4) you still don't have addressed the problem of excessive speed breaking the game engine. search a bit in the test forum and you will see that it is a real problem acknowledged by the devs.5) and yes,when ccp do a broad change to a weapon system they tend to touch only 1 system at a time. they prefer to see the effect of the changes before tweaking another system, at least when the change affect all the different kinds of weapons of that system.so if they work on missiles for a different balance of that weapon system they will place drones on hold as long as they don't have seen the aftereffects of the change. 6) \"casually\" 3 missile boats: drake, raven and kestrel are the most widely used combat ship (last queen), then fairly behind you find the dominix. so maybe guns need to be even further ahead of drones and missiles for a tweak. btw: if you limit your request to \"flight time\" alone it can even be supported. naturally it will make mission farming with torp ravens even easier, but i suppose it is one of your goals."
"1. fail,fail,fail.i wrote one, i dont care do you what want to see behind my words. i know what i wrote. maybe do not understand because my bad english.2. fail,fail,fail,fail.do you heard about tracking enhacer ? but now edit just for you. \"low slot\"3.hardwire one 5% implant, not helping for anyone.how much increase this hardwire the rocket ranges? at 8km +400m.how much increase this hardwire a max skilled phoon torps? at 20km +1km.how much increase this hardwire a sacrilege ham range ?at 20+ 1km. at 30km + 1,5kmbtw check how change the missile range of sacrilegewhich using javelin missile with 2 low slot 7.5% module + implant. now : 31,92 (implant)after + 2 low slot modules+implant: 36.5736phoon with torps:now: 21,315 (implant)after + 2 low slot modules+implant: 24.4072phoon with javelin torps:now : 31,92 (implant)after + 2 low slot modules+implant: 36.57364,5,6you talking about idiotic things.btw where is you 80km torps idea with this conception?oh i see you forgot that because realized, you cant and now you turn ahead to a too much speed missile idea.like :drake, raven and kestrel are the most widely used combat ship (last queen)drake, raven , kestrel ? lol maybe raven in pve.kestrel ? maybe if u using so much cyno.\"btw: if you limit your request to \"flight time\" alone it can even be supported.\"fail.read the first point"
"just speed. extra speed would make missiles viable in longer ranged combat. in all honesty, guns have a mid slot and low slot module that modifies range/tracking. what are you talking about? are you complaining about missiles being all optimal range? the obvious answer to that complaint is that missiles also are not instant impact. rockets, hams, and torps all have normal short range (compared to other systems), except on a few specialty ships with several range bonuses (instead of damage bonuses like on ships of the same class).excessive speed is a problem when something is trying to shoot it (it is a problem when calculating transversals). this is ammo. there is no transversal to calculate as nothing is going to lock and shoot it (this gets funky when dealing with defender missiles - which is part of the reason they are broken). just look at the computations for tracking done every time a gun fires and compare that with the distance/(speed*flight.time)okay? how does this impact a request for a single module? the two are hardly mutually exclusive. both do not impact each other creating some kind of horribly imbalanced ubership (okay, the rattlesnake pilots would send love letters to ccp if both were fixed). that must be some good stuff you are smoking. raven... combat ship? kestrel? wait, what? not sure where you are flying that you are confronted with ravens and kestrels in pvp on a regular basis (rewording that... pilots in kestrels or ravens who are actively seeking pvp and not simply being ganked).flight time is fairly meaningless compared to flight speed. that is why it is a harder skill to train. the largest weakness of missiles is the fire-to-impact delay. this is why you don't find a fleet of sniper ravens. it simply would not work. however, the flip side is ravens could be part of large fleets (still ridiculed, but actually a functional part) if they could boost the speed of cruise missiles. hence the request for a module boosting missile speed."
"let's alone all the rest. but evidently you and your friend are awfully misinformed. ccp has tested on the dev server (not sisi) missiles with higher speeds. above a specific velocity they start to act funny and the eve engine is not capable of managing them. from what was said the current higher speed for a bonused ship + implants + rigs + skills is the max speed that the eve engine can manage without errors. if you want a missiles that overshot the target and the turn back, missing again and again go on and ask for an higher speed.you can find some info about the dev post (not a quote) and discussion on increasing missile speeds here"
"if you're going to say something like this, please link some form of proof. i'm not going to buy it on the word of a character who seems to have a general lack of kills. beyond that, it just doesn't seem plausible in a game where you used to be able to collide interceptors doing 15+km/s each without a problem."
"you were too hasty, i was searching for the quote, found a handy thread, but still hunting for the dev post."
"i kind of agree with the mid slot module that would give missile velocity + explosion velocity (a tracking computer for missiles). which can be scripted to give higher % in a single bonus. then the low slot module that can't be scripted and gives lower bonuses. however. point defence requires fixing. point defence needs to be an effective system in a fleet that is centralised to a single t2 ship (new t2 destroyer anyone?) which is race specific and good at killing drones or missiles depending on race."
"since you are proposing a \"tracking computer\" for missiles, i'll support it as long as you also include a \"tracking disruptor\" equivalent for missiles (no, defenders don't count)."
"i would like to know if it is still an issue or was an issue back when people were doing this. with ship speeds down, waaaaaay down in many cases, do missiles still freak out at higher speeds?"
"way past i have seen cruises freaking out when fired against a stationary jetcan and circling hit, never hitting. the engine has become better, but i doubt so much better. the basic structure is still the same.probably 15 km/s is safe against slow/stationary targets, but against high speed or in high lag situations i think ccp will stick to the current max speed of about 12 km/s. the problem, even if the op don't want to hear it, is that bonus pile up. what can be balanced for a typhoon with torpedoes is overpowered for a raven with the same torp plus rigs and implants. when speaking of implants \"it is only a 5%, it do nothing\" is a false statement. the true statement is \"it is a 5% that stack with rigs, skills and ship bonus, when you use all the options it do a lot\". even more if you add a 5% flight time implant. so the \"7.5% speed increase with one module\" mean 900 m/s more for a 12 km/s missile. 9 more km for a 10 second flight.with 2 modules it is an increase of 1700 m/s and we already are near dangerous speeds for the engine. with 3 modules we get well above 14 km/s and probably we will start having troubles with hitting fast moving targets. if you look the thread i linked you will find this: \"almost never\" can have limited consequences for a ship, but when you are firing volley after volley of missiles it can become a big drop in effective dps if some your missiles pass thought the enemy ships and continue on their merry way. from what i have seen a missiles that suffer from this kind of behavior never recover, so every time this limit hit you will lose the missile (or volley) damage. naturally the only people that really know what is the current state of the physic engine are the devs, but without further information i suppose the problem still exist."
"why you lieing ?i'm playing with this game since 2003.dev never wrote this, and i just talk to you: the missiles flew quickly early, now much slower than, and devs not needed test missiles speed, they said the engine physical limit maybe at ~20km/s speed. nothing else.let see the missile speeds now:light missile on a hawk which get +50% missile velocity bonus = 8435km/swith +2 module would be = 9658.69km/slight missiles on a ship which not get + missile speed bonus = 5625 km/s (would be with +2 modules 6441.03 km/s)heavy missile on caracal same like hawk light missile speed 8435km/s.cruise missiles on a raven same data 8435km/s.torpedo on raven : 5062.5 km/s (would be with +2 modules 5796.931 km/s)all ship get +50% missile speed from ship bonus. (caracal,raven,hawk)so you fail again and talk about second thing after 80km idiotism, which is not true. where is that 20km/s from 9k/s ??and other thing should be use datas, not just your words, that's nothing without knowledge."
"there is a module that is better than a tracking disruptor for missiles. here is the modulei believe that module would work more to your liking. if the missile ship has no range it cannot hit youbrechan"
"browsing through the thread on \"getting some love for low sec\" it seems painfully obvious that there are a lot of people who would like to see low security space be something other than the smart bombing camp-fest we've all come to know and love (hate? loathe? ignore?) though the thread has some real merit as to its purpose i do not believe that the approach is correct because:a. requires a crap-load of game mechanics changes.b. a lot of the suggestions don't seem practical because they rely on getting people to change how they play eve.i would suggest that the fix for low-sec lies not in complicated redistricting or mechanics changes but in adding new pos structures that use the now usesless trade goods that keep popping up everywhere. this was buried in several of the posts there and the idea is sound. why not create low sec only pos structures for stuff like:1. brothel  uses exotic dancers, spiced wine, beef, janitors, etc to generate a revenue stream.2. slave labor camp  uses slaves, skilled slaves, beef, etc to generate a revenue stream.3. drug den  uses blue pills, boosters, and various other illegal drugs to generate a revenue stream. the list could go on and should include a variety of structures that players can create that eat the various trade goods found in the game in exchange for iskies. this solves a few problems, like:creating a reason for people to go into low-sec.giving otherwise useless trade goods a market that does not exist now.generates more opportunity for pirates to go after the people who run these structures and creates pvp opportunities.no complicated sov like restrictions, no changing game mechanics to try and generate some interest. use the existing pos infrastructure because they could work just like pos fuel with a different output and you kill multiple problems by letting the players work it out for themselves. give us something to fight over, please."
"my support here"
"yes please.it would be nice to also get the mineral market values for refine -- either in the refine screen, or in the sell list."
"talking with friends, i have heard speculation that ccp may hesitate to implement proposal because it would lead to spikes on database load when making many price queries at the same time. i do not agree, for the following reasons:1. database spikes could be controlled by limiting the number of items which may be mass sold: 20, 50, 100... anything would be a great improvement over the current system.2. database spikes could be controlled by having a 'wait time' between queries of 0.5 seconds or some other adjustable value. while it may take a minute to load up a list of 120 items for sale, it would still be a great improvement over the current system.3. it's 2010, not 2003. computer hardware has improved and presumably their backend has too. they should be able to handle a bunch of queries which are mostly going to be made anyway. design decisions can be revisited as hardware becomes significantly more powerful, and now is the time to re-evaluate one of those decisions."
"/signed"
"supported."
"signed."
"i agree with almost everything the op said. capping systems is currently only worthwhile for rp epeening in igs and the ease of farming fw missions makes pvp almost not worth it.i would like to see a point in capping systems that reflects on the success in fw itself. i don't have a foolproof answer to this, but i do have one or two ideas:1. drop the level of lp earned in fw missions. but not completely. that would be overkill.2. make the capturing of systems raise the lp earned in fw kills for everyone in the capturing militia. this would seriously motivate all fw players to both capture systems and engage in combat.pro: more fighting and more of a point to that fighting and more of the eve principle of risk/reward.cons: none that i can honestly see off the bat."
"disagree.it allows you to enter a system, see how many people are in it, and stay if you want. i've been playing for nearly 1 year, i live in null sec so i disprove your theory of how its impossible for you to survive.you want to remove yourself from local? cloakie."
"yup"
"glonn,if low sec is where you can get ahead, by mining, probing, or other.... being a newbie - you wouldnt stand a chance.i would love to go into 0.0 and risk everything, but if everyone in the system knows instantly that i have 'arrived'. what is really the point?if we meet up in space, you have your bigger spaceship / and skill bonus because you have been playing longer. but it should only be 'if we meet up'. that should be your only advantage. since you are told that 'i have jumped into the system', im dead meat in any ship i try to fly in and 'get ahead'. you don't even have to activly search for me. you already know there is a target to kill."
"yes, i supported it because it amused me. this doesn't - local arguments just make me bored and tired these days. yes, local needs a change. no, this is not the right change. it's not even really in the right ballpark."
"remove local ............ possibleoption to remove local linked with overview settings (i.e. war, corp, horrible etc) much needed"
"if there was an option to remove yourself from local, everyone would remove themselves from local and have alts in shuttles at every gate to identify when people are coming in or where they are going. this is a fairly bad idea."
"i support this. limiting the number of players in fleet is difficult to manage the fleet. instead there are 2-3 fleets of 256 players.we need larger fleets..having larger fleet sizes isnt going to make the blobs bigger(by much) its just goona allow the ease of play.yes fleets will get larger becuase people wont have to deal with the issues, but the increase in the watch list needs to get fixed along with this."
"i'm not sure i see where the problem is with this!how awesome would it be to see 10,000 people lining up on each side! 20,000 players all interacting (destroying each other) in one system at one time!"
"yes"
"my support here"
"excellent ideaperhaps a build on this idea is to have the broadcasts icon appearing on the watch list too."
"when will we can repack and repair the modules at pos? i thinks that it's a necesity, too many people live out of stations. it have no sense we can mount a ship at pos but we can repack it... i see deficiencies.vote for repack and repair at pos!"
"as the title says, it seems pretty simple to implement and would make auctions so much more useful."
"while it annoys me to hell. i think it is to make it harder to snipe auctions.with an exact timer you would mostlikely see auction sniping bots for eve as you see them for ebay e.g.that said ... not supported."
"like to planetary interaction"
"i have noticed that, in the csm category of the evelopedia, there were many ui related issues that were raised, issues that are often still raised by players in the assembly hall and features and ideas forums, like the trash it option, to cite but one example.i would like to suggest to the csm that they instead present to ccp an organised compilation of all the easy ui improvements that could be made for both clarity and to avoid fixing the mess that is the ui one issue at a time, as it would then take forever to have a clean, user friendly interface.i would also like if players could submit their own suggestions in this thread to help building such a compilation."
"well, since we are also routinely hitting 512+ pilots in fleet the modified proposal is only a minor improvement. also you haven't detailed the new advanced fleet skill. from the description (affects wings, rank 14) i assume its a skill that wing commanders will have to train, requiring wing command 5 as prereq., not fc5.but that's is not the point really.since this is a democratic process and you are representatives, this discussion should be held in the public, in the appropriate thread for instance. the least you could do is publicize the arguments for the change. the only paper trail we have just notes there is a discrepancy. for credibility's sake the csm should become more transparent when they change a proposal."
"i support this cause."
"listen to your customers ccp!"
"so what you're saying is you approve of people losing billions because they have things to do in real life while it's unfair for people to do the same to you because you're not afk? auto pilot was made for a reason, and that reason is people are busy and don't have time for some of the crap eve makes them do."
"drake - you just don't get it. i am *not* trying to be mean or snide, but you don't. during hulkageddon (while i was in the bastards) the majority of hulks/macs that got killed, died to four or five, cheap, t-1 fit catalysts.1m, 1.5m for hulls, and 1.5m for mods. insurance was kewl, but not necessary. get a t-2 strip to drop or a t-2 hardener, pretty much paid for hulls, mods and some leftover. so insurance was not an issue.now, if those ships were 500k ea., it would be harder to do for free, but still *not* impossible. losing insurance would not have entered into the equation, and if insurance was removed, it still wouldn't have changed a thing.updated for spelling"
"didn't ccp say they hired a typography expert?any progress?jjiill1|or in eve....||||||||"
"you do realise \"if\" (and its a big \"if\" ) they ( ccp) were to make the font readily legible . we would lose the hannerhead drone. im pretty sure the eu would slap a preservation order on them.al"
"bump back to front page"
"great idea"
"omg please improve controls! i feel like i'm flying a windows 98 computer through space/support"
"can i also have 2 orbit buttons as well? would love these changes."
"very much support this."
"sounds good to me."
"full support! good ideas"
"i love you guys, i really do, read the post mate, everything yo usaid just shows a complete lack of comprehension, this isnt about pirating carebears, it isnt about not fighting or making things safer. it is about the lowsec environment, and it is just ideas, not an i want list.fear of fighting? check our kb, you wont find carebears on it. fear of caps? i fly a dread and a carrier and we have supercaps. fear of 0.0? been there, done that, found it damn boring tbh. we live in lowsec because we want to, the fact remains that it doenst have alot to make it a unique place, that is what this is about.so please, stop whining that some other people would like to improve the place they live and play."
"screw planet carebearing, this is what eve needs."
"/signed"
"bump, cmon guys, we need your support!"
"/signednot a low sec resident, but you guys need a little attention by ccp i think"
"/signed"
"you want to add to the environment by simply turning low sec into 0.0, nothing more.if 0.0 was so boring, why do you need to increase your safety to gank a hauler? /still not signed"
"there ya go, i fixed your spelling mistakes mate, good luck with hello kitty."
"fixed yours for you as well mate, cheers"
"full support"
"on #1: i'm for some sort of 'claim' system, but mechanics for someone to remove that claim have to be in place. so using existing sov mechanics i say have people be allowed to drop a sov module in lowsec systems. they can then use an ihub to upgrade the system to an extent where at max level it could be as good as the lower levels of null sec are without an ihub. also you'd get reduced office fee's per level, in addition i could go along with gate guns no longer attacking you, but they would not defend you either. they'd just offline essentially in regards to the controlling corp/alliance.on #2: sure, have them be slightly better then current high sec agents, but only slightly.on #3: i'd be for all current pirate goods to be able to be sold on some sort of black market in lowsec...not so sure about creating new ones.on #4: to sell, maybe, to use no.on #5: if all the mechanics work right it should increase this profession anyway.on #6: no to overly complicated, more ransom options such as suggested above for players would be more viable.on #7: no, you shouldn't be forced into low sec, null sec, or high sec. it should be the potential rewards that get you there.on #8: if balanced to be less profitable then null sec moon goo sure, also would give more meaning to some contraband in game to be useful.on #9: if you used my above sov mechanics you'd already have this ability.on #10: once again see the sov suggestion i made.over all can agree lowsec needs more reward for the risks."
"i can deal with this. gate guns would still do their thing ofc, but anywhere away from them is fair game. this meaning low sec would still be some type of 'sec' but mainly for the ones who run it. eve is about profit and if a 0.0 group needs an area for low sec for logistics, they'll either need to pay tolls or help guard these areas. thus, turning pirates into \"logistics defenders\" lol, but the same ideals nonetheless. kudo's to you legacy, i would approve if was more along these lines than op's. making low sec, a higher sec for the owners, but less resourcewise as well.i see low sec as more logistical than a springboard to 0.0. thats where pirates make their dough. would definitely bring a new era to low sec. more like low sec interns than actual sov holders maybe."
"/signed"
"i fully endorse this product and/or service."
"good thread, would read again."
"the ability to reconnect to drones isn't worth anything if they are all killed, even if you re-logged in asap. so the \"don't shoot at drones of disconnected players\" thingy should really be implemented. you lose over 5 million isk with every set of 5 heavy tech2 is in an ishtar or gila. that sucks a lot, i once had 3 crashes (mac client not as stable as windows, isp) so i lost more money in 2 hours than i could earn in 0.0 ratting :/ that was really sad and it happens more often! plz ccp; make it fair :/"
"you have my support."
"also, ability to align to fleet members!"
"1.0"
"get it made people, support today!"
"yes, exactly. create the bookmark when you pass the 100,000 km mark from your destination."
"supported, seriously i want to hear each and every piece of matter colliding with my ship in a mission. getting hit by like 50+ guns in a mission and only hearing two of them and the occasional missile is really dumb."
"i support this thread. but to those people that say it makes shield tanking is just not understanding what were asking for. we just want the shields to be full when we jump in, just like it does with armor. or the other optionadd a \"secondary\" \"session change timer\" that will keep the fleet bonus's for x amount of time allowing people to jump into the next system."
"fix it. even after fix armor tanks will be still prefered over shield in large gangs, especially at capital lvl."
"good idea's, fix's dont have to be big sweeping things to be good, this might only make life a little easier, but the effect would be positive on the eve playerbase."
"please god this would be epic."
"110% yes!"
"throw in camera tools and we have a winner."
"replays? in my eve?"
"when you're shooting people in the face, you don't have time to look at the nice explosions. this feature will would be great to watch, savour, and share those awesome eve moments."
"oooh yeah.supporting this one for sure."
"oh noes, now everybody will clearly see i am going around without pants"
"interesting, this would also allow people to render a movie in higher quality which would normally cause too much lag too run in a big pvp battle. i like it."
"so does that mean it's ok for those of us who do not have rl problems to grief, i mean war dec, new high sec, non-combat focus corps?"
"well by griefing you prove you have rl problems. instead focus on the good ideas people have with wars being system base."
"well aren't you just the cutest little internet psychologist. you're quite adorable."
"do you know the history of eve? at one point, there were no war-decs at all - that's right, because there was -no- hi-sec. the game had -no- balance between miners and combat pilots at all. just to reiterate: its called \"hi-sec\", not \"safe-sec\". in *your* opinion, without proper reason. actually, i think you would be surprised at what ccp has to say about it... they have stated, on numerous occasions, that \"player interaction, consensual or otherwise, is what eve is all about...\"look, if you seriously can't stand the thought of (in game) blowing the **** out of some bandit that desperately wants it...use alts on your accounts to create shell corps, war-dec comes in, drop corp, move to new corp, last guy out of the old corp takes all the corps assets, gives them to new corp owner, viola! no more war.although, i honestly believe that with only a wee bit of training and practice, you would be surprised at how much fun it can be to blow up a fellow pod pilot.so, since there is already a perfectly fine method to avoiding a war, i do not support your proposal.my apologies."
"can't believe i missed this jewel. no, eve has never been about having a choice to avoid pvp. however, i did find a solution that would help you avoid wardecs for good. how to avoid pvp in eve"
"lame meme is lame... i mean.. that's not even a \"rick-roll...\"avoiding empire wars, nerfing suicide ganking, wth is going on here...?"
"it is time to close a chapter in eve's history that started with thisccp started a transition from bpo to invention, but never finished it. this has consequences: a small number of people are able to circumvent invention and make exorbitant profits that inventors cannot compete with.you may argue that life is harsh, and that people pay huge sums for t2 bpos for this privilege, however:the system is self-reinforcing, as the owners will naturally make the most money and continue to usurp further bposthe system continues to be fundamentally unfair to new players: there are still people out there with a blank cheque that was won in the lottery, not earned. every one such person keeps tens to hundreds of inventors out of the market.ccp is inconsistent: rare moons have been addressed through alchemy, but this hasn't. worse, rare moons poss can be attacked, bpos are safe in stations.proposal:make the market function properly: eliminate t2 bpos.compensate the owners: convert them into t2 bpcs equivalent to two or three years of continuous production (as many are priced that way), but at -1 me.there will be a residual negative shock to the value of the bpos anyway. that's too bad. we all lose stuff in nerfs aimed at making the game more balanced. as for the price of t2 gear: i have no doubt that the market and competition will take care of it.reactions, please. if you have a vested interest, declare it at least: that way we at least we know what you stand for."
"no."
"no"
"* the system is self-reinforcing, as the owners will naturally make the most money and continue to usurp further bposfeel free to buy a t2 bpo if you think they are so great. * the system continues to be fundamentally unfair to new players: there are still people out there with a blank cheque that was won in the lottery, not earned. every one such person keeps tens to hundreds of inventors out of the market.how is it unfair? invention is the more profitable choice between invention and t2 bpo use. most ppl with t2 bpo's prolly didnt get them through the lotto- they bought them. id call that earned.as for the \"each t2 bpo keeps tens to hundreds of inventors out of work\" argument- have you done the math? one inventor can produce more then prolly 10 t2 bpos. * ccp is inconsistent: rare moons have been addressed through alchemy, but this hasn't. worse, rare moons poss can be attacked, bpos are safe in stations.alchemy is a secondary option to moon mining specific rare moon goos as invention is an option to producing from a specific rare t2 bpo."
"*posting in a \"i don't have a t2 bpo so no one else should either\" thread*"
"you do not have to have the lowest price to sell your t2 invented items .for good profits from them - dont think like a sheep. not supported in any way. 0lly"
"any decent inventor can outperform a t2 bpo easily. and it happens alot.i would recommend reading this and this.that might give you some numbers to see why the whole whine about \"t2 bpos are overpowered\" is just a sign missing clue.not supported.disclaimer: i dont own t2 bpos. i still make fortunes with t2 production. i could buy me t2 bpos but i dont see the need for it."
"hey look this thread again"
"qft!people like this always just make me roll my eyes. if they would just try their hand at the entire invention process they'd easily and swiftly see that t2 bpo holders on high volume goods simply can't hold a candle to inventors.t2 bpos are different from invented bpcs in only one way: they can build things more cheaply, that is it. they can't produce in nearly the quantity of invention, they can't even come remotely close.invention has paid for every one of my own t2 bpos. invention is 90% of my production output. i make more money by invention volumes on high demand items than i do with my bpos though i make more per item with bpos i have fewer of those items to sell than i do with my invention processes.the age of the t2 cartel is over, so quit complaining and either buy your own bpo, learn how to invent and produce your own t2 goods, or stfu and buy the production of the inventors all around you."
"i am all for this. one of the links someone posted against this idea even addmited that 10% of the t2 producers do 33% of the total production with bpos. 1/10 producers doing 1/3 production.so 9/10 producers are generating the other 2/3.yep can see why the t2 pbos want to keep their little toys.anything that tries to make this game fair or balanced seems to always attempts to be stifled by those that feel entitled just because they started playing earlier. that is one thing i like about the gear resets in wow it levels the playing field every 1-2 years or almost content patch now."
"only one way to make it balanced. no i dont have t2 bpo's either, but how is giving t2 bpo's away to players long ago and not jack for new players? get rid of them and let the bpc's take precedence while letting t2 prices get higher, like it should be."
"1) learn to use the search function instead of creating a new theread about something that has been proposed hundreds of times;2) read what you find with the search function before posting, so you will notice that you are wrong on all points;1 bpo is approximately the equivalent of 2,5 manufacturing slots where you use invented bpc.so each t2 bpo keep 0.2273 maximized inventors out of work building that specific item. wow add to the list:3) learn how pe work."
"[proposal] - mods should automatically lock idiot threads like these."
"yes"
"in for tyrannis?"
"no csm take this up yet? come on its the most basic of additions and everyone i know wants it!"
"stable planetary orbits in binary stars are possible, as long as the stars are far enough from each other. there are also some more exotic orbits possible ofc like planets that switch the 'parent star' once in a while, but propability of those orbits is low enough to neglet those. then again with eve being real time game one can also get away with totally unstable orbits even, as it can (and will) take several millenia to get rid of the planet that is in process of being ejected from the binary system. if that kind of planets were present in eve they should be very very rare ofc, as propability that this happens 'right now' in the evolution of binary star system would be very low. it seems reasonable to assume that binary systems that are unsuitable for more or less stable planetary orbits do not have stargates constructed around them.implementation of binary star systems itself does not seem very hard, all you would need to do is to make second star (and possible planets) around it visible in the overview. granted it would make some damn long warps (possibility to explain why second star was not visible previously is distance and need for 'better warp drive' to cover long distances between binary stars). for example alpha centauri is triple star system, a and b components in relatively tight orbit around each other (~11 to 35 au to each other) and then one small star (component c) far away orbiting those two at some 12 000 au or so roughly. it would take very long time to warp from a to c as even in interceptor rigged for warp speed (~20 au/s) it would take roughly 600 seconds or 10 minutes. would sure give a meaning to the warp speed of the ship tho. however - making second star in binary star systems (all the systems that have stargates are binary systems according to the backstory) visible and acsessible is in my opinion a lot easier to do in some future expansion than sorting the mess with planets after tyrannis has been relased if they are not looked before that expansion. it would not end well at all if someone would find that their 'terrestial' planet 64 au from the star has frozen to the core overnight after some dt 3 years from now afterall."
"supported"
"definitely worth it"
"i'm surprised nobody mentioned this was handled in csm3?"
"unsupported for the above reasons, especially reason e: use your drone! that's what they're for!"
"rule #1 of eve: never undock in an out of date clone.rule #2 of eve: never undock in anything you cant afford to lose.rule #3 of eve: fight back in game, stop crying on forums.rule #4 of eve: see above.not supported."
"will you people stop necroing threads that are obviously not supported?sheesh."
"lost the change with dominion?npc corps members pay taxes to the corp. 11%."
"that's like hunting a deer then some guy comes by and takes the corpse and running and another guy telling you it was fair game for him.you're all trolls, face it."
"i don't know about the others here but the only reason i am here is to offer my support and hope this gets implemented as soon as possible.i think you're the troll tbh."
"there is already enough ganking in highsec going on.this proposal only would lead to pirates not only salvaging more from you mission runners but as well gaking you with no fear of concord.if that is implented, ccp might as well adjust highsec agents to be as profitable as low sec agents. since there will be no difference between highsec and lowsec/0.0 agents then any longer.thus, not supported."
"hey, ccp did say they want more people in low/null. this is the best idea ever!"
"i support this."
"just stop cluttering the forums, and make some sain and usefull proposals mmk?anyone with half a brain would understand that ccp will shoot this idea down in 0.001 ms"
"do you realise that the ninja salvagers are the least of yoru problems if they sneak in to steal from you then they get the 15 minutes timer dont they ? in which case you get the option to go shoot them what your suggesting would allow roaming groups of pvpers to jump mission runners in pretty much any mission anywhere including high sec.something tells me you havent thought this through at all i test my ships out using high sec missions id rather not be busy tanking npc ships then get insta popped when a roving fleet jumps me and overloads my remaining tank popping my ship :( this would be very bad idea so no way should it be supported."
"the \"problem\" is:this is hilarious lie. there are only 2 ships out of 7, which have some kind of missile bonus. namely eris and lachesis, both with horrible split hybrid/missile slot layout. the rest are pure gunboats (enyo), ships with powerful warp inhibition e-war (ares, eris, lachesis, phobos) or support ships (occator, oneiros). ironically, most powerful gallente missile ship (nemesis stealth bomber) is designed be duvolle laboratories.because ccp are already in process of redesigning ship models/textures (see last blog), this would be great time to fix the roden shipyards in one strike.so, here's the proposal:1. change description of roden shipyard ships to more closely reflect reality. something involving advanced electronics and/or warp propulsion inhibition.2. enyo: make it duvolle laboratories ship. it's gunboat. period.3. eris: remove missile bonus, add small hybrid gun damage or optimal range bonus, or something. 6 turret hardpoints? 4. lachesis: swap models, skins, descriptions and producers with arazu. let lachesis, now duvolle ship, drop the missile bonus for sensor dampener/hybrid guns optimal/falloff range bonus. add 1 more turret mount. (2 would be overkill i guess, rook has 5 launcher though. could be ballanced by fitting attributes.)5. (optional) make nemesis roden ship? it's more of compensation for losing enyo to duvolle."
"some of what you say makes good sense. the nemesis and enyo should flip producers, the description should emphasize warp disruption, and split setups suck on ships that don't just bull their way through with raw dps(like the typhoon). that said, i disagree with making the eris a gun ship - gallente needs a few missile boats. give it 7 launchers and 2-3 launcher bonuses. lachesis/arazu, i don't care too much, but i lean towards not flipping them for the sake of it. make the lachesis look like a rook, and it'll hopefully see some use. overall, i think i support most of this."
"since the giant container (3000m3) carries 3900m3, i can understand the devs not wanting to make freighters able to use them to boost cargo capacity.however, i would really like to see smaller freight cans that will not compress space, and are usable in a freighter.first, rename general frieght container (120k m3) large general freightadd medium general freight (12k m3)and small general freight (1200m3)the current 120km3 gen freight is nice, provided you never organize anything, or you are hauling large quantities of minerals, or other items like that. however, many of us use the smaller containers within our own hangars to keep things organized. ammo in one can, mods that you use regularly in another, loot in a third, a fourth for blueprints, etc. what ends up happening when you use a freighter to move a lot of stuff is the smaller cans get dumped out into one large general freight can, and you then have to resort all of your stuff at your destination. if you have a lot of varied items to be moved, this is a huge pain in the rear.if this suggestion is implemented, you can keep your smaller quantities organized without expanding freighter cargo volume. also, if you have buddies who want to move stuff at the same time, you can keep their stuff separate from yours without losing a huge amount of space by requiring each individual to use a full sized freighter can. lastly, the addition of two game items and the renaming of one curent game item is all that will be required to make this change that will have no effect on game balance. it will just make life a little easier for many of us.thanks for your time. <edit> what a difference a space makes!"
"these cans are wa-aaa-ay too big. i recommend an edit ;-)"
"very plucky comment bub, but seriously, what do you think of my proposal?(won't support own idea until lots of others support it as well)"
"i do support this idea because having to move lots of stuff in a freighter or jump freighter for a corporation or alliance (or even individual) can be a logistical nightmare.having a container for smaller scale organising would be welcome because the general freight container is just too limited an option."
"probably something handy.what i personally would like, is the ability to view containers from a distance ( assets window ).it is all nice to organise everything, but then when you need to check something, you can't see it because it is inside a container ...if i can look at my station items, then why can't i look inside?that would be something i'd really like."
"yeah, this makes good sense to me."
"maybe also make a new kind of container that can have a fitted ship framed inside. similar to an 18 wheeler hauling cars/trucks in the back. hell even a tug boat/tow truck type ship would be nice to have.maybe a 250k m^3 eq. container for battleships, 200k for battle cruisers, 150k for cruisers, 100k for destroyers and 50k for frigates. if the obelisk and that class can haul station sections there is no reason they should not be able to haul a ship from station to station since you can't access the cargo bay in one of those unless at a station/base."
"just found out that one can actually list container contents, even when not at the station ( rigt-click - show contents ), so uhm don't mind me and go on with the thread :pand yes, already made a post here :my most embarassing eve story & why 1 year playing = still \"newbie\""
"*pokes \"waddup with the mining shiznit homiez??\""
"im supporting this also mining is meant to be a very intrical part of the eve universe but as most peeps point out mission runners can make more cash than miners either from the bounties the missions themselves or simply reporcessing the loots and selling off the mins its time for miners and industrialists to get their upgrades the pew pewers have enough stuff make them wait untill 2017 for new gear and ships see how they like it give us some stuff"
"will the csm ever pick this up :d hehe, they really need to make a better way for us to track which assembly hall topics have been picked up for vote etc, maybe this needs to be changed from a forum to an actual csm solution."
"yes!"
"bumped for great justice"
"awesome bump!"
"give it the pg, its the big daddy of ships, its supposed to be the gallante big hybrid platform give it the pg to run a decent tank and still run 8 big blaster cannons and melt enemys its sad that the abaddon so outclasses it on pg."
"in ccp's latest devblog ("
"i'll just copy my comment from the dev blog thread:how about this: have the same bar we have now, but below it stick those five coloured buttons, and have pressing them set people to the appropriate standing? it'd let people who don't care set people to +10/+5/0/-5/-10 with one click, but leave in the more powerful options for those who actually do care. perhaps make the simplified system be what's used for standings set by individuals, if you want it to be more intuitive for them, but let corps and alliances have the detailed version as an option."
"hey this does sound quite like the idea i proposed in my blog in one banter:"
"love the phoon, it's extremely versatile. don't know what your problem is, try flying a different ship that fills your needs."
"if you want drone bonuses, do like i did and get yourself a sweet ass dominix ;) silly phoon pilots...."
"no.-liang"
"how did that meme go again? aah yes:'u mad?'typhoon is close to being the most powerful bs due to insanely good slot layout, drones and choice of weapon systems .. versatility is what makes it uber."
"not supported."
"first of all, go die in a fire ingame.2nd. so your saying that you use 5 siege missile launchers and nothing more on a typhoon?. what's on your 3 left high slots, miner ii's?.like me, i use 5x dual 650mm ac t2 guns and 3x siege missile launcher ii's on my typhoon though, but that's because of powergrid issues."
"this thread is wierd in parts. its like reading a missile boost proposal from before qr or something.anyway; i support the addition of more missile types specialised towards higher speed and/or flight time at the expense of damage within a specific set i.e longer range torps for example. i dont particularly support modules being added because of the maximum number of modules that theoretically effect missiles being less than the maximum number of modules that theoretically effect turrets. the weapon systems work in different ways with different variables, having less variables in one system or the other isnt a disadvantage or an advantage in real terms, ergo not a reason for a buff."
"leave my loki alone!better gang bonus than a claymore, can warp cloaked, is immune to bubbles and cant be probed while fleet boosting.its perfect as it is!cant do anything else however, hence the ballance of using a gimped fit.not supported."
"i would rather see a new probe introduced. a probe that when launched is seen across the entire system (like a cyno field beacon) and that is perishable (one time use only). additionally it needs to cost lots of iskies to purchase (5 to 10 million isk per). the probe when triangulated as the others is able to spit out a warpable point to cloaked and hi sensor ships, but if the prey is paying attention the probes are essentially wasted. it's about time gankers faced some risk when engaging pve ships, in this case the risk is in their wallets .let the ganker whinage begin!\"noooooooo!1! us gank3rs alredy have enuffs risks [sad panda]!1!\""
"balancing around isk is stupid (re: titans)also cloaks are fine as are unprobable shipsin conclusionyour idea sucks"
"i actually do agree that non-cloaked ships shouldn't ever be 100% unscannable, however this proposal is terribly written, so i'm not supporting it.imo you should be able to make yourself extremely hard to probe (to the point where you need good skills/bonuses/implants to probe you out), but never impossible. i think that's a reasonable balance- if you want 100% immunity to probes, get a cloak."
"how many ships does it apply to apart from the tengu?how many hoops does a person have to jump to achieve it?is it fool-proof?, last thread i read about it left a big fat question mark on that.as far as i know a ship fitted to be unprobable is essentially worthless for anything else as it has to expend a ton of slots to do it.its only real value is for mission running in pirate-infested space since a bog-standard cloak or covops trumps it hands down in all other scenarios.hardly a problem."
"it is not just the tengu. any t3 cruiser with dissolution sequencer subsystem, ceptor and some eccms in the mids.it is neither fool proof and there are enough occasions where you can catch such people.for tortugan: it would actually be worth a try if a max skilled prober with faction probes and virtue set could find them."
"yes, it's foolproof provided that you don't get painted by rats, deploy drones, or do something unbelievably stupid. and yes, you have to jump through hoops, but since it makes you invulnerable, lots of people will do that. i'm actually not that bothered about the pve setups, but you can make unprobeable covops-cloaking t3 command ships with 3 bonused ganglinks and an interdiction nullifier.which is pretty amazingly op."
"apart from being more 'mobile', what exactly is the difference between the fleet command sitting at a pos and the t3 sitting in a safe?both provide benefits to gang and both are essentially 'invulnerable'. or does gang-links not work inside a shield bubble any more?as stated, a non-issue."
"not to mention these are tech 3's... bloody expensive and nothing more than flying neon signs saying \"shoot me\"it would be different if there where dozens seen every day.so yes... op... quit your emo'ing and go some place else."
"this is more a problem with gang bonuses being applied from off-grid than unprobable ships(which is stupid and should be fixed, as it has been acknowledged by ccp as a bad mechanic)"
"i dislike the mecanics. i cannot see a point in sig strength being divided by sensor strength. these values are rather irrelevant to each-other. instead, i believe, the mecanics needs changing, for it to be something except for sensor strength. plain sig radius would imao."
"things that will make your life easier:bulletin noticekillright pilots on overviewcorporation bookmarkssort by meta levelthe eve fontupgrade of \"orbit\", \"keep at\" and \"approach\" functions.ctrl+click target = unlockpersonal wallet divisions - and hangars tooadd faction, deadspace, officer tags to module iconsin-game account expiration countdown.star map interfaceshow drone damage in bayfluff and visualscombat visual improvementgraphical revisions - guns, explosions, hull dmg and trailsmake afterburners redremove or redesign sensor boosting visualscorp logos on shipshardware and soundanti-aliasing/soft shadowsthread which highlights sound problems (sound engine & sound bugs)customizing volume on specific objects and environmentfix sound issues listedinterfaceoverhaul of roles and grantable roles systemmodules to add:more weapon upgrade modules for missilesgive carriers drone repair bayssmall tractor beam 2armor tankingactive tank bonus buffnew skill add skill which reduces jump clone timer just a little bit.ship balancebuff destroyersgive assault frigs a 4th bonusthe retribution - a.k.a beating the dead horseblasters / drones - gallente problems. blasters 2.0drone dmg rigs and implantsgallente : mark ii low sec / fw changes!low sec xpack outlaw"
"reserved for updatesalso i think that ccp doesnt fix some stuff cause they are too lazy to browse through all these pagessticky maybe?"
"sticky yes pleaseyou could also link the csm votes/outcome/wiki if you have the time....this is required for this assembly hall cause its getting rediculous"
"do you intend to keep this up to date for at least the next year or two? it'll rapidly turn useless if you don't. also, see if you can put a status next to each of those threads - if it's been taken up by the csm, it doesn't need to be raised again, but if it hasn't been, it might. still, a great utility. plz sticky."
"you forgot:railgun rebalancingfix rockets"
"character name changesneuts/nos on overviewship to carry assembled shipschanging local to delayed modecapital jumping effect- revert or create better one"
"i don't think the railgun one deserves a place on this list. it;s for stuff that keeps getting brought up, whereas you're the only one to make a railgun whine thread. rockets, yes, for sure, but railguns no."
"i'm not sure i want this to be fixed. the better solution seems to be let the people save their ship, and then drop the banhammer on em for evading concord.eh, supported anyway, probably the more politic solution."
"working as intended"
"hi there,noticed in a recent patch ccp implemented a timer for plex's when they were 5(?) days from expiring. i'd like to see this implemented for all methods of payment, nothing is worse than logging in to \"account disabled\" and not having the rl funds to pay for it at that moment in time... it doesn't need to be flashy or intrusive, just a simple line on the login screen like where they have the ship you're in etc. i feel this would be a useful addition."
"everyone knows ccp hate factionwar and don't want to feed us anything in the hopes we'll move to 0.0 \"endgame\" (so much for sandbox game).however this could be an easy fix that may well re-balance the factions in a meaningful way.currently in each combat-zone an npc ewar imbalance exists which allows one side to capture major complex in a single speed tanked t1 frig, while the other side needs a 10 man cruiser/bc fleet or logistics to accomplish the same thing.i may be wrong, but if ewar was completely removed from all fw plex rats would this imbalance not be fixed?"
"i have a dream......of an eve where changing your direction does not involve dragging your mouse around your ship and then double clicking in space....of an eve where 99% of actions are not performed by a cascade of right click menus....of an eve where it doesn't take 10 minutes to setup a new overview because you have to go through the world's longest set of checkboxes....of an eve that allows you to customize your ui, so that players can change it to suit their play style or needs....of an eve that lets you return to the character select screen instead of forcing you to logout and login again....of an eve that quickly provides vital information on modules and ships in their description, instead of hidden in a table of attributes.i have a dream. will you join me?"
"my apologies, i musta missed it lol"
"this is an old, old complaint, and the devs explained why it doesn't work like this years ago. basically, it has to do with how they optimize database calls - if they asked \"is this a copy?\" when they called for item information, they'd have to ask that question of every item, blueprint or not, and that would cause far too much lag. without asking that question, they can't put different icons on. if you want to distinguish them without showing info every time, use the \"blueprints\" tab in your s+i interface."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"been asked for numerous times......and i'll support every one of em!"
"this needs to be dealt with."
"i want a t2 or faction tractor.simply because that tech 1 tractor on my vargur ruins its shipfui.as for the \"analyser and hacker\" ships.......i use a panther for that."
"yes. it makes total sense to have to train months for a tech ii battleship that easily cost a bil isk just to get a little extra range for a 1mil isk module.i would even like it if we at least got a 5-10km extra range for a tech ii tractor beam!"
"i'm not asking for a \"god damdamned tractor beam\" ya tard ass, i said salvaging as in gives bonuses to salvaging, get it? -.-"
"agreed,being able to use the module (lvl3) and using it excessively well (lvl5) is 2 different things.younger players have way more skills to lvl up then us with 100 lvl5 skills already trained...that change just give them the opportunity to try difefrent facets of the game and perhaps choose a new profession. (speccing)."
"true, but the art team <> the qa team or the main dev team"
"fonts are way to small for large screens and high res please increase them asap!"
"graphs!"
"linking for you."
"recap:this is a proposal for the re-engineering of railguns and caldari railboats, so that they get the following: +15% to all railguns' damage modifier-reduce spike optimal bonus to 70% instead of 80%+10% to pg output for all caldari railboatsjustification.in order to compare we need to create a baseline.fleet bs using fittings that let all 4 bs have an optimal of 180-190 optimal, 3 damage mods each, and a buffer or roughly 14k, for a proper benchmark, we have: (all are t2 ammo)apoc: 372 @193+33, 14.6k armortemp: 370 @ 140+72, 13.9k armormega: 351 @ 168+49, 13.5k armor or mega: 312 @ 183+58, 13.5k armorrokh: 321 @194+30, 13.9k shieldsniperhacsusing fittings that let all 4 hacs have an optimal of 70-90 optimal, 3 damage mods each, and a buffer or roughly 20k ehp, for a proper benchmark, we have: zealot: 299 @ 93+13 (aurora), 21k ehpmunnin: 312 @ 81+22 (tremor), 25k ehpdeimos: 235 @ 84+37 (spike), 20k ehpeagle: 235 @ 79+25 (uranium), 19.5k ehp1) to reach same range as the rest, mega needs to be gimped (2 magstabs+2 te) and does subpar dps (19% less than apoc) and rokh does subpar dps also(16% less than apoc)b) if fit the same number of damage mods mega does less dps (7.5% less than apoc) and the rokh is still does less dps (16% less than apoc).2) although i am using mega and rokh, the ratios hold for the other railboats as well (especially hacs, although brutix is a bit op). i had to pick a number to append to my proposal and i obviously took the average, which is 15%. further comparison at marauder level. i used a paladin with 3 x t2 heatsinks and a kronos with 3x t2 magstabs, both firing close range high dps t1 ammo (i know that paladins use an multis but kronos pilots can't afford using cn am all the time, so i had to make an assumption.paladin (t2 megabeams/ t1 multis/ 3 t2 heatsinks): 697 @ 30+ 20km (tracking 0.01914)kronos (t2 425mms/ t1 am/ 3 t2 magstabs): 601 @ 36+ 30km (tracking 0.01653)697/601= 1.16 =116%. and that does not take into consideration that the paladin can use tachyons which take it up to 753 @ 33+25 (tracking 0.0174).after benchmarking the ships, it is obvious that the numbers support a 10-15% damage increase for railguns. the 10% increase for the caldari ships is a subject that has been brought forward quite a few times and it pertains to the fact that in order to fit the same ehp buffer as the rest of the hacs eagle needs 2 fitting mods, ferox needs also rcu+ancillary to fit 250mm rails, etc(continued)"
"how will it affect balance?if we apply a 15% increase to rails damage modifier and a 10% pg increase to the eagle, we get the following:munnin (19.5k ehp):t2 720mm arties emp m (t1) = 357 (+80 from drones) dps @ 29+36 (2949 volley). tracking 0.04482t2 720mm arties tremor (t2) = 238 dps @ 81+22 (1966 volley). tracking 0.00945 eagle (19.5k ehp):t2 250mm rails am (t1) = 325 dps @ 47+20 (1138 volley). tracking 0.04967t2 250mm rails uranium (t1) = 270 dps @ 86+29 (948 volley). tracking 0.03148 deimos (20k ehp):t2 250mm rails am (t1) = 360 dps (+158 drone dps) @ 23+37 (1345 volley). tracking 0.05101t2 250mm rails spike (t2) = 270 dps @ 84+37 (948 volley). tracking 0.00825zealot(21k ehp):t2 heavy beams multifreq (t1) = 448dps @ 23+10 (1110 volley). tracking 0.05362t2 heavy beams aurora (t2) = 299dps @ 93+13 (740 volley). tracking 0.01031 as far as ranges used:the operating range of the fleet will be dictated by the least denominator, which in this case is the tempest with 140+72 km. so, it's optimal + 1/2 fallof= 176km. you have to balance every bs around that range, otherwise your efforts on railguns are null and void (pun intended). rokh reaches 194 km with spike, mega does 183 kms, therefore both need no more range. what they need is to be able to apply equivalent dps and/ or alpha with apoc and/ or tempest at that range.a munnin with 720mm arties, no range mod and load tremor m, w/ a lvl 5 pilot has a range of 81+22 km. doesnt that indicate design range?sniperhacs engage @ 70-100kms. fleet bs (snipers) engage @ 170-200kms. if you are going to compare ships and turrets, you should first look at them at those ranges. when the enemy gang is or you warp in on them, you load shortest range/ highest damage ammo and tracking speed/ scan resolution scripts and slug it out. that is the secondary scenario to be examined. fleet support bcs need to be able to hit @70kms with max damage in order to be able to protect the fleet bs. the apocalypse does 20% more dps than a ship with a direct 5% per level bonus to it's w/s. i believe that is wrong and needs to be corrected. i don't want to see amarr and lasers nerfed, since after the projectile boost, those two are at the same level. however, i do want to see railguns be buffed to the level of the rest of the long range turrets.specifically for spike l/m/s, if the optimal bonus was reduced to 65 - 70%, while it's damage was increased by 15%(which can be achieved by increasing the gun damage modifier) it would balance out and make the rokh/ eagle/ deimos/ ferox/ brutix/ cormorant/ catalyst more usable for sniping while not making the mega and brutix op (they would be fighting in falloff, with a low tracking ammo), which is a concern expressed by many."
"something like this would greatly improve my eve experience."
"yes please, in this or similar form.--krum"
"this would be an improvement over where we are atm.but its still fairly poor compared to a rof bonus.not sure how to calculate the effectiveness of this in terms of dps equivelent.somewhere around 15% dps for lvl 5 would be my guess."
"full support, mor love to lowsec"
"/signmore love for low-sec"
"have updated the original post to reflect legacy's ideas. not big differences, mostly a slight expansion on idea 1.keep the support and ideas rolling in people..."
"still dont agree with #7, but what the hey. kudos/signed"
"thumb up! there is definitely the need for some content boost in low sec."
"signed"
"yes, i want to take off the autocannons on my vengeance. it does more damage than the rockets."
"supported for the roflkits."
"/signed"
"another thing i was discussing just the other day, and magically on the front page of the assembly hall when i came here. supported.maybe i skimmed over this detail. but i think shared corp bookmarks should be relayed to clients in the same way the current agent mission bookmarks are, a little submenu called \"corp bookmarks\" that then opens up into what's shared."
"i wonder if dust will have the same sound issues. i mean, imagine that, a console game with bugged out sound. if they don't get it working it shows how much fail they are. if they did, it shows they just don't care about eve.fix the sound.edit:in before \"dust has sound?\""
"ccp: \"there is no bugged sound engine in eve, it is all left wing tree hugging hippy crap!\".fix the shedload of bugs already and make the sound immersive plz. sound kinda matters in computer games you know?"
"proposal, right click insure ship.recent expansions have given us the nifty right-click repair ship option. there is a need for the right-click (on a ship) to insure ship option as well. the coding should be nearly the same so it should take minimal time to make this change.prono more searching though 150 ships in your hanger to find the one ship your trying to insure. (yes, i have that many in my pvp hanger)conincreased ease of insuring may result in more fully insured payouts there-by increasing isk in eve."
"not exactly a top priority but makes sense.supported"
"+1 the game tibia has a similar type of thing for the game, which records keystorkes, conversations and everything. its a good thing to look at, but it does cause some client side lag for the \"recorder\""
"then go to low-sec or null-sec and fight other people who like to pvp and who might actually beat you. wardeccing newbs and industrials in high-sec is not pvp, its just a cheap, coward's trick -- shooting fish in a barrel."
"u mad?~"
"i'll support that enthusiastically when i get that \"mining dec\" i mentioned before.remember, people pay real world money to play this game. it should not be possible for griefers to leave them no options but to pay for a game they cannot actually play."
"i didn't realize ccp added a feature to wardecs where people who get wardecced aren't allowed to log in at all. that's a p. chill feature."
"removing the option to leave a wardecced corp is forcing people who have no interest in combat and who have not trained combat skills to pay to not play. stuck in station unable to do anything that you are paying real world money to do is the same as not being able to log on at all."
"exactly, people are paying real money in order to play a game. by allowing corps to grief newer players in high sec, such as station camping, people are paying money to not play the game. now ccp could give money back to players who cant do anything during a wardec but they won'.so making wars system based would be better. that way would be like fighting over recources but war deccing many corps over one system would be unrealilistic so it would be between just a few corps. of corse you coud pay more for more systems but each one gets more expensive. this way newer people can get out while people who want to pvp can."
"jumpin' jehosaphat! just drop corp! you and your buddies make up a new corp, and every day a new dec comes in, drop corp to one of your other holding corps. hell, disband corps and make new ones... stop asking for something that already exists in game, and is supported by ccp! jesus..."
"this is an example of people who need to be a little more mature. instead of just instantly dismissing issues, look at it from the other persons side."
"it's not that he's being immature. it's more along the lines of \"oh crap, not this again. haven't they got the message already?\"what the people here are trying to say is that the mechanics to \"avoid\" war or \"deal with it\" are already there. you simply have to learn about and take advantage of it rather than ask that the mechanics be changed.now... i personally do not support this proposal. the whole reason i like this game is for its pvp element... an element that the ccp devs have time and time again stated that they strive to perfect. now, is it perfect as is? hardly. but there in lies the challenge in making a game that is geared towards forcing \"player confrontation\" one way or another and making it so that new players are not at a complete disadvantage.if someone declares war on you, rather than ***** and moan you should weigh you options. - do you move operations to another part of the cluster? (a lot of people, myself included, are lazy and will not pursue targets if they too far away)- do you jump into t1 frigates and cruisers and lay some hurt on them? (protip: many war decs will end when the aggressing corp's isk efficiency dives... so while you may lose 5 or even 10 t1 fitted t1 cruisers, if focus your fire on their expensive stuff and pop it, you win)- do you jump corp? (self explanatory)- do you \"hibernate\"? (stay in station... play the market... and be as boring as possible; stop talking back to your aggressers... talking gives them more \"resolve\" with which to keep their hunt going)so it's not that we don't see your point of view. it's more that we've been there, we've clawed our way through, now it's your turn.edit: grammaredit2: spelling"
"i was unaware that it stopped you from pausing training on that character and rolling an alt in an npc corp. sure it may suck, but you can still play the game.face it, your \"i can't play, so don't let them wardec me\" argument is bull****, and everyone here, including you, knows it."
"lol"
"bagehi - thank you so much for proving to us that the art of bull****ting is not lost on pvp'ers.i haven't laughed that hard in a long time.whats ridiculous is your bold faced enough to actually argue something that is obviously wrong and false.i've known many many industrialist corporations... and they don't even pull some of the crap you even claimed to do.only corporations that do that are greifing pvp'ers. pvp'ers don't like industry and only go so far as to make sure they have enough isk to do whatever it is they want to do. i know very few who are actually good at both things as it is.what you claimed are very (if at all) rare incidents and only possible when your corporation just happens to have a capable and good enough pvp force... that or you used a second corporation or hired a merc live everyone else.please... give it up.... we can see right through you.industrialists don't have time to \"gank\" freighters... what the heck kind of argument is that?you have any idea how much firepower and effort it takes to gank a freighter?sure as hell won't be in a war-dec unless the other corproation is really that stupid!(and sad to say i've seen some but even then everyone knows its stupid to drag a freighter out in a war dec! duh!)we don't have time to war-dec because \"someone stole our omber belt\".there are hundreds upon hundreds of asteroids out there... they just move on to a different system.or move out.honestly... why do people keep this tripe up.war-dec's are not a personal thing... please... grow up... stop using childish reasoning for once.war-decs are broken... but nerfing them or buffing them is a waste of time because it ends up unbalancing the whole system.my \"personal\" issue is the asshats who come up with stupid arguments."
"how did i miss this thread. i particularly love this little gem."
"less than two days after the third wardec in one month ended, we received another wardec...lessons learned:- staying docked is not a feasible strategy because it means i will stay docked for more than 80% of the time- hiring a merc corp is not a feasible strategy because at this rate the corp will be broke very soon- fighting is not a feasible strategy because it means i will have to fight for more than 80% of my time, and cannot play the game the way i want to- disbandling the corp and create another one is not a feasible strategy, because than we would have to do that once every week- wardeccing is effectively making it impossible to run this corpwardeccing is broken. fix it or get rid of itgwabakk"
"join an alliance."
"you forgot one:-whining on the forums won't work; nobody cares about you."
"how are you getting these wardecs?????? send them to me!!but seriously, you're doing something to catch people's ire. you or someone in your corp is probably doing something to draw unnecessary attention (i.e. screaming in local, saying that the people that flipped them are idiots, greifers, and have no life, etc) hence all the war decs.another protrip: pods instawarp, you can escape station that way."
"as someone who started out eve somewhat 'highsec' focussed - 5 years ago, i thought abolishing war declarations were a stupid idea, and i still feel that way today. we still do quite a lot of... well, everything really. industry included. and i think war declarations are very positive, even when they do occasionally make our lives a little less convenient. it's really very simple - there's a lot of mediocre corps in eve. i mean, the kind that someone joins unsuspectingly, and somehow eve turns all boring, and they quit. these i call 'failcorps' and they're usually the kind of corp that do a bit of everything, and whine when something isn't ultra convenient for them. the war declaration mechanism filters these corps out, by encouraging the players in them to take the initiative. to sharpen up and fight back. or to sharpen up and evade the war. or just accept that they are a failcorp, and go join a corp that isn't pathetic, and find they don't have a problem any more. case in point. your best option here is to accept that you haven't got what it takes to run your own corp. there are any number of 'real' corps out there, who would happily accept a member who's a wardec magnet, because ... well, it's a free war. chances are though, you'd see no sign of a war declaration."
"i agree, there is no way you are randomly getting war decced like this.likely cause here is someone running their mouth as that tends to be about 90% of the reasons why war decs happen to a corp like yours. either that or someone has a big wallet and a bone to pick with you for some other reason. pvp corps don't like station camping anymore than you do. anyone doing it for economic purposes normally tells you why they are doing it so someone is paying them to grief you, one of your corp m8's is bringing this on you, or you are incredibly unlucky."
"the problem is... while there are many fail corps... there are legitimate start ups.shadow cadre is... was... still is one of these corps.we are a small and financially poor at best... most of our assets are in the ships we just barely are able to afford.we can't generate income or bother to mine or manufacture because we get war-dec'd every f'ing time we turn around.and we don't do a damn thing... we don't smacktalk (i insta-kick anyone who does pretty much).we don't \"attract attention\" and we sure as hell don't compete as we have nothing to compete with.all we get is \"oh we saw you flying a battlecruiser\" and they war-dec you.war-decs target easy prey..they never target anyone who is bigger or stronger than you are.with the exception of addicts that are few and far between of course (been reading \"the taxman\" from the irs...great writing!).basically we just wanted to mind our own \"boring mediocre\" business. our intention from the start was to get wealthy enough to be able to strike it out on our own in 0.0 or whs.but due to the war-dec crap... we always end up jumping from alliance to alliance.. ultimately we ended up living in 0.0 and at least here we can do what we want and not worry too much about getting harassed. (not that we don't... but at least we got some good friends out here who are bloodthirsty enough to handle that problem).again... i'm agianst war-decs on principle... but removing them is a mistake.i'm not foolish enough to say that they should be removed all together.. then high sec would grow out of control.but something has to be done to balance it out... for the small time corps starting up and for the epic fail corps who smack talk out that needs to be crushed.if you don't get a solution to that problem in whatever changes are wrought... you will run into a total chaos problem... scaring off new players... or a status quo where things get stale.as it is shadow cadre will never have a corp in high sec... we will be npc because of that threat.most of our membership are too busy to deal with pvp crap... we have only a scant few hours to play and that's that.(i post often because my job is boring but won't allow eve time : o p sucks to be me)"
"yes to parts, t2 bpo's should be phased out, or put back in but with their own advantages and disadvantages how to do this i dont know.imo the reason they should be removed is that they are like isk machines, not uber fast 1bil per minute, but a decent return on an investment, the problem is other than losing the bpo, little risk. the t2 bpo price wont drop. so your equity is the same, or increasing from profitis better to deal with this now, before they are 100bil each and if u decide to remove them have an massive outrage from players."
"are you stupid? they are only cost so much because players value them at those figures (if you knew anything you'd know that they are valued on potential profit over a certain amount of time, given current prices, something like 4-6 years?)op, terrible idea, been brought up before and with same resultsas others have stated, invention > t2 bpo"
"the links presented seem to deal with the issue of quantity produced quite well but not the issue of profitability per unit, especially for bpc's of ships which only yield 1 run. and even though the bpc inventors may dictate market value, bpo holders should still beat them as far as percentage of profit at the same prices, though the amount may be less since quantity produced is essentially bottlenecked as noted above. that aside, the bpo's are something shiny, and i like shiny. unless stronger arguments can be presented, not supported."
"well, i did not expect any bpo owner to support it anymore than i expect a turkey to vote for christmas. at least one of them was honest and talks about wanting to collect shiny objects.i have no time for responding to juvenile ad hominem attacks. as for the more serious arguments: concentrating only on demand-led, high-volume items does not tell the whole story.i doubt that all of you believe that either. i see some stories there about how people's (greater) invention profits have financed their t2 bpos. why are you buying them since they are making you a comparative loss?if they are \"collectors items\", why are they priced on a three/four year roi? real collectors items are not priced that way, neither in eve, nor anywhere else in the world. anyway - the arguments are irrelevant. either this post will be supported, or it will not, that's all there is to it."
"care to explain that?"
"just do it already."
"sounds reasonable"
"i would admit that its stupid that t2 bpo's are around because they control the market. however, how do you plan on re-imbursing the people who have them? you do realize those bpo's are like an investment and are valued almost as priceless. some people pay 30 to 50billion for one bpo, and thats only for the ****ty ones. it's in the game till its gone, deal with it, its tough but they can't just get rid of something so valuable. that's hurting the player who has it. if you really want the market to be fixed then why don't you ask for the removal of alt accounts? no more daul screening or dual boxing. have a person only run one account at the same time? mineral prices would go up helping miners and so would the prices for modules. that doesn't hurt anyone as much as that bpo because you can still use your account, just not at the same time.my 2 cents are no. it does suck and it is basically huge lump sum of free money, but their isn't a way for ccp to replace the value of something that can make infinite amounts of money."
"i like the idea of making invented t2 bpcs non-****. give them a decent default me/pe before anything else is taken into account."
"paging herschel!not supported."
"only if the quantity traded is so small that the bpo can cover all the demand. to use interceptors as an example, most if not all of the raptors are made from bpo while a large number of the crow are made from bpc. the raptor is noticeably inferior to the crow so inventors, that can choose, will produce the crow and sell for a larger sum. owners of a raptor bpo that have to produce the raptor or not use the bpo will still produce it. if ccp would remove the t2 bpo the raptor will still be a worse ship, will still have a production cost near that of a crow and will still sell for less. so there will not be more people inventing raptors, simply they would almost disappear from the game.similarly for modules with little use we would see meta 4 or low cost faction variants replace the t2 as there will still be no gain in inventing them. while i would like to see the invented bpc reflect a fraction of the research present on the t1 bpc as it will reward people working to get a better t1 original, it will not really change the profit of inventors. simply the item price will be pushed down by the high number of inventors with researched t1 bpo and the new researchers would have a harder time before getting some profit."
"i would like to add ofcource that alpha centauri might not be the best possible example of binary system, as third component (proxima centauri or component c) is at bit extreme range from others. 12 000 au is approx 0.2 lightyears. as i'm not specialized in astrophysics then i do not know what is the average distance between binary stars but i would speculate that is somewhere around ~20 to 200 au or so usually. in eve the 'real' number is not that important as ccp is in 'control' of the eve galaxy and thus almost any number between 10 and few thousand au's might be believeable. the habitable zone (zone where liquid water can exsist) is for almost all stars relatively close to the star tho, somewhere from 0.5 au for really small ones up to 3 or perhaps even 4 au for really hot ones. hot ones have ofc some problems as far as evolving life goes, like their relatively short lifespans and some very energetic processes in the evolution of that massive stars. as far as distribution of planet types goes tho, as mentioned before relatively simple and robust atmospheric model would be sufficent to get consistent planetary types. plasma planets can be explained by throwing some exotic material into the atmosphere and lava planets are also possible in the younger starsystems or following some violent events, like collision of two smaller planets. afterall you do not need a lot of parameters for it - a distance from the star, composition of initial gas cloud (or just flat out atmospheric composition of the planet) and mass of the planet would give you aready pretty good picture what to expect. ie. what gases can the planet keep and can there be greenhouse effect. polar ice caps would need ofc a bit more sophiscated model. anyway - actual accuracy of model is not as relevant as getting consistent results. for best results ofc it would be uber if they would hire someone from astrophyciks or atmospheric physics field as consultant for planetary overahul, but if they dont want then giving someone in the company with masters degree in the field of rigid sciences a week to google around and wrap their head around what is done and known would give also pretty good model i think."
"and correct the fact that they don't orbit their respective stars. and correct the fact that moons don't orbit their planets. and correct the fact that gates in the middle of nowhere don't orbit anything.it'd certainly make bookmarks more interesting."
"yeah, i agree. each little step though."
"/signed"
"i was trying to sort my corp (not this character) into respective wings so we could do payouts based on wing performance. the concept was that i would assign each corpie to a wing and set an active wallet to them, basically thier bounties etc would then run from that wing, however i cant do that at all. i suspect that this may be shot down in flames as something that doesnt return anything to the masses, however from a corp managment point of view it is one i would love to see."
"i think i understand what you're saying, and it seems like it could be a good idea, but you really need to actually make it into a coherent idea. plan it, possibly mock it up, then post it."
"i've taken time to think thoroughly about this proposal as i did some scanning and i can't support it.moving the probes into the optimum positions around a contact is the major player skill-set involved in actually doing scanning. its what makes one player better at it than another.take the player out of the scanning and you might as well just add the wormholes and sites to the overview to begin with.just as some people are better at combat than others and some people are better at playing the market than others some people are better at handling their probes than others. that skill should be allowed to make a difference rather than having the process automated."
"that's like saying \"learn to buy instas\" when wtz was introduced.people know how to scan. people don't like meticulously positioning their probes so painstakingly (not that it wasn't harder before).refrain from comments that make you look dumb in the future.supported."
"well i agree with mynxee but it's a bit more than what i personally want. i only use one pattern and i don't need to save it. but ccp did promise us you could have the probes move closer and further apart when resizing them so that the pattern would stay the same. they said that at fanfest .. it's on youtube even... and i've been drooling over that idea ever since. ccp can i haz the shiny toy now ??? pleeeeeeese ? /signed"
"as people have said over and over, frustrating the player with a flawed mechanic system isn't a clever method of applying game balance. the ease or difficulty of probing is something that should be determined by character and player skills, not by having to fight against your mouse to manhandle probes around in a horrible clunky interface."
"don't know if this would be possible to implement, but it would be really great to have!"
"this would save me so much work. ofcourse, it would make macro-exploration easier too...still support"
"i'm in."
"wow, i came here to look for something unrelated, and found something i was talking about just the other day. i also use several different probe arrangements depending on the size of the system, number of sigs, strength of sigs etc, and would love to be able to switch between them more easily.i also agree with limiting it to core probes. part of being a good combat scanner is being able to operate quickly and minimise the duration your probes are visible for, having quick \"patterns\" to automatically arrange your probes will put your victims at a distinct disadvantage."
"rubbish idea."
"excellent idea, the obvious solution to the salvage theft problem."
"this clearly won't be game-breakingly abused."
"great idea"
"very good idea.i also have had to deal with the hassle of trying to fit things in freighters and even orcas. i would like to see this idea brought into the game. practical and well thought idea lisa waen"
"1.0"
"actually, i was being serious. as i read those figures, i saw 'kilometers,' rather than 'meters'in any event, i do support your proposal."
"yes."
"supported"
"supported to allow the proper calculation of the value of a kill. implants listed as destroyed items in pod killmails please."
"that is one of the listed ideas i had posted. have 5-10 differnt skins for each ship and let the players chose which one they want. the thing you people dont understand is the server allready does this.... t1 and t2 ships have differnt paints, hell there are even more then 1 paint for t2 ships depending on what roll they serve. compair the navy megathron compaired to a t2 megathron. the server allready has to tell your computer which one to load. the only differnce would be how long it takes your computer to processes the data and load the correct texture from your hard drive. and like i have said before in older posts ccp can expand their servers or buy new ones to support new features, they are allready doing it for when they release walking in stations specialy for walking in stations. have 1 server for models and textures, 1 server for accounts, 1 server to handle the systems and 1 server to handle walking in stations. problem solved. hell if you dont want that many servers 1 server for ships/textures/accounts/walking, 1 and the current one for systems.like maxsim goratiev said we dont really know how much lag this will cause we can only make educated guesses.... so push this though to the test server and if it lags that server enough we will drop it.... if it causes no noticable ammount of lag then we will continue testing or push it though. you people arent even giving it a chance at all (for those of you who arent supporting), sorry if you dont want to see pink megathrons that is why we put an option in to turn custom paint off so you dont have to see it if you dont want to....and like bagehi said the ammount of data if his calculations are right is horribly small.... im downloading at about 200 kb per second on dsl. meaning i single handedly can download enough data to color 16,000 ships at the same time it takes you to blink and i know the server can put out 100 times that easily what i can download cause it was made to."
"it should have 8-4-7 slot at least. those who say it makes it nothing more than a megathron, screw you. that's like saying an abaddon is nothing more than a apocalypse with its 8-4-7 slots. the megathron has better tracking, but the hyperion is a better tanker and deals better potential dps. the hyperion definitely need an increase in powergrid and perhaps in cpu. it has the same powergrid as the mega, but it needs more to fit all its guns.its meant to deal damage and tank at the same time, just like all other tier 3 battleships."
"alright, let's compare it with maestorm, after fitting 8 higest caliber autocannons on the maelstorm, we have nearly 10,000 gigawats left, when compared to pitiful amount of powergrid hyperion has left it's jsut insane, a 4-times difference. and by the way, shieldtanks don't really need too much powergrid. maelstorm has more powergrid and more cpu then the hyperion, it's just embarrassing. it even has the dame dronebay. and the maximum tank it can achieve is higher."
"plain and simple... an option, to not just oclude the sun, but to turn it off all together in solar systems. more or less blocking it from view, or at the very least, sunglasses mode, to where you can dim it, because i know i'm not the only one who is annoyed by it. =p"
"this is already in the game.left click your mouse while looking at the sun.while holding the button down, drag the mouse in any direction until the sun's glow ceases to annoy you."
"do not remove the ability to set standings to npc corps.why is usable functionality being removed?"
"agreed, when i read the post, i was already thinking about this sort of thing, and although not being in 0.0 yet (emphasis ;) we're looking for a good alliance to join) but i can see where it comes in handy to have the real numbers, but maybe the decimals are not needed and thus can be refined into a 1-10 integers (corresponding with their negative counter-parts of course) and translating this new number system without decimals into a more broad color scheme."
"support.atm i see ally reds, corp reds, and my private reds.looking at the standing i can guess which one it is and why is that person red e.g. 1.1 - i don`t like his bio, 1.8 - he is fun to kill, 1.3 - ninja-looter and so on, 1.7 - needs to be traced on common ship etc. etc. (i know about notes and use them as well.)should i remember all that folks by names? no thank you!does anybody like those colour squares that much? fine! why not add them to the existing system, just like a shortcut to -10, -5, 0, +5, +10 positions?eve is not a plain game to play, but heck, i think nobody wants it to be one!"
"agreed.if some ppl want to have a simple standing system - they already can set -10 -5 0 +5 +10 and see 5 color square.i want to can set -7, -1, +1, +3.. etc."
"yes."
"dunno, it looks like this is more a lag issue than a usability issue - it reduce to two bits the standing poll from 8 bits, in a big fight it could have quite an impact (more from a database polling side than a bandwidth side).maybe replace the finer grained standing with better notes, like adding corp condivided notes/ally condivided notes (obv. with rules to prevent spamming) about player/corp/ally?"
"at the very least there should be 7 increments, not 5: 7 and 5 both take 3 bits to store."
"i support my own proposal, of course."
"lets face it, most groups use the -10/-5/0/5/10 system, because that how many icons there are.if doing this change makes things less laggy, then i am all for it.however, as has been pointed out, you could have 7 options with 3 bits (which you also need for 5). i think they could either -a) go with 4 options (-10/0/5/10 - think about it, if they are -5 or -10 you are still going to shoot them) or -b) have 7 options (possibly with another set of 2 icons)without too much trouble.edit: not supported because there is no difference between 2 and 3 standing for players and lag is bad."
"supported.currently it has the ability to be complex or simple... doesn't matter how many use it.if its a lag issue then yes simplify it but don't do it to the point of nerfing the ability to use its ability to track.*ibfgitridofnapsnao*"
"supported"
"if that is why everyone joined eve then why does the vast majority of people actually playing eve live happily in highsec completely unaware and uncaring of .0 and its politics? when i joined eve .0 alliances and such were a sparkle in someones pant's some where.that being said, i agree to an extent. it's hard to understand why the slider is going away in favor of a far simpler system. as it sits now it has 200 variables so would changing that to 5 seems oversimplification for any reason unless it has to do with the nature of incoming mechanics that are being kept under wraps. if it's a load issue then wouldn't 10 or 20 largely accomplish the same reduction in load while allowing .0 politics to continue virtually unaffected?as of now we don't understand why it's changing, we don't need to know the exact reason but in this case i think many of us would be willing to sacrifice a little less performance for a little more functionality."
"supported, used to rp with u'k' and used to be very annoyed i couldnt do anything with the slaves, and that has cost me a fair bit of standings taking my recovered slaves back to stations in gal space."
"supported, and other options to make it fair for the amarr are fine by me."
"here"
"someone being as enthusiastic about being on eve as you are makes them a macro?"
"do you use one? because i dont think anyone could mine that way 23/7 with no breaks. i'm not that enthusiastic about it lol."
"why all the hate for really small miners?"
"providence is a region outside the concord protectorat (0.0). in past, many pirates gang living here but the region was conquiered and civilized since this time, all unknow pilote was welcome if not hostile for 1 month, against all authorities alliance help ushra khan to down the civilisation and wan close the region if their win this goal, -a- and u'k have 2 large region and the darkness run on the galaxy if providence falls, it would be accept reign of no tolerance and dictatorships. are we unable to build a humanist society without concord? we need help quiclychannel public: stellar revolution"
"i fully support this proposition, and or service and suggest ccp act upon it right now.what say you csm?stamp out the evil that is umm, well, me actually."
"seriously ??? .... rofl ... we are not bringing the darkness we are liberating that region from the grip of tyranny and false prophets. we are taking back what is ours while at the same time freeing the spirits of hypocrites to go back to their creator for judgment !!!..but yeah... all jokes aside we love all the carebears and their tears and it will be sad to see them go. who knows maybe they will actually end up learning to play the game for a change :)) but i'm not worried because there's plenty of them to be had around new eden so not all is lost even if they do leave providence.."
"first off... we speak english here.secondly... this is the wrong forum for this.thirdly... reported.: o p"
"with me, brave god fearing fellows! see the godles heathens yonder? it is our duty, nay, our privelage to rise up and strike them down!! with the laz0r, we shall flay them, with the missile and the drone we shall blast them, with the thermal, and the kinetic and em we shallt smite their unholy and blasphemous forms!for the emprah!oh sorry wrong game not supported lol."
"ok so this is just the start of a proposal... i don't know if there's anything similar on the forums as i haven't kept track of it for a couple of months.. i also don't have an actual solution, it's more like a problem i'd like to raise.when dominion was released we were told that the new sov mechanics would transform null sec life from pos bashing to actual fleet fighting. we've seen some of that but there's still some work to be done. the problem is you still have to take structures down and you still have a number of timers you need to follow. and that's not a problem in itself if people show up for a fight. but if they don't it means you just have to sit there for hours on end staring at the screen hoping for something to happen.the best example of this is what is happening in providence. we've had a few instances where nobody showed to defend the system and we still had to go through all the timers to take down the station and everything.so long story short my proposal is to make it somehow important for people to show up and defend their system. i have 2 ideas for this and more are welcomed.first idea would be to cut the reinforced stages if nobody shows up to defend the thing when one timer runs out. a way to implement that would be to introduce fuels for the reinforce stages so that the defenders have to refuel the structure when it comes out of reinforced for the next cycle to kick in. a problem with this would be ninja fueling so i'm not convinced it's the best solution. but maybe some of you could come up with something better.another way would be to give the defenders an economic incentive. for example they could be asked to pay more for the system if the station is in reinforced. and maybe the price could be raise for each stage. this way the defenders would actually care about each reinforce timer. this would also allow for other tactics like going around and putting things into reinforced without taking the system just to bleed the isk out of the defenders. i know some of you might feel doing this would be unfair but the idea is that if you can't defend a system you shouldn't keep it. please let me know what you guys think."
"actually i am the one to provide concrete numbers. the railgun issue has been put to vote by csm and was dropped because they did not have a specific proposal. therefore i put one up with numbers, data and logical justification. also it has more support and views than most of the other issues mentioned.finally it affects more than 50% of the eve populace and half the issues concerning gallente and caldari are tied to underperforming weapon systems, especially hybrids. it is of concern to both pvp and pve pilots, so i think it is of interest for more people than this list:fluffmake afterburners redremove or redesign sensor boosting visualscorp logos on ships more weapon upgrade modules for missilesbuff destroyersthe retribution - a.k.a beating the dead horseadd faction, deadspace, officer tags to module iconskillright pilots on overviewbut of course it is more important to fix the vindicator for the 50 people that fly that ship than fixing rockets or railguns so... whatever, i am not going to fight it, going to go train amarr or whatever fotm and stop trying to contribute.you deserve yourself."
"yeah, i like this idea keep it around."
"my proposal is to bring back a character that need the isk to be send too at character sales. its too easy now too scam and sell the character."
"what what what?more info please."
"can flippers are usually jerks looking to cause a fight then they let concord do the fighting for the ... i say if you loot a named jetcan from say a miner as soon as you loot it concord should show up and do their job ..they are the police right and theft is a crime correct implement this action and it will stop can flipping and make them earn their own ore or items the perpetrators are just being asses and looking for trouble or just doing it to harrass people so let concord stop it once and for all"
"this is not a complaint box.this is an assembly hall where rational and thinking people come to propose ideas and suggestions.i suggest you quit the game if your going to keep that up.wow is that way"
"i thought it was that way? <-"
"drake is directionally challenged.the op, on the other hand, is a terrible idea.paging the ieee to the thread"
"didn't you post the exact same thing a few hours (if that) ago?spamming an idea does not make it better. postcount = postcount + 1."
"booo booo *flame flame flame* .... wait on second thought could you maybe emoragequit so that we can all have a good laugh ? please ? pretty please ?"
"do you drop cash in the street and then when someone walks by and picks it up leap out yelling thief thief and demanding that the police arrest him?jetcan looting is god's way of telling you to anchor a gsc."
"never compare real life to eve online... epic failness ensues always."
"allow a type of sovernty to be claimed over w-hole space called exploration rights, this would allow a corp based in w-space to upgrade its system to produce more gravimetric, ladar, sleeper sights ect. posibly allowing the construction of a station in system. (maby a new type of station that dosent require sovernty.) my reason for this idea is i am tired of collapsing w-hole after w-hole to find bare systems, and tiered of waiting a entire week to throw down a minning opertion with my corp mates. anyone wanna take this idea and run with it?"
"no."
"no."
"possibly allow a wh specific structure that could grant bonuses like the upgrades do rather than get sov, these structures should only relate to the spawning of sites and ideally should not be specific to a corp, ie if thier fuel runs out someone else can nick it, likewise, if the anchoring corp is forced out the new wh owners can retain these structures.sov in whs? nope, if you want sov, stations and moon goo, go rent from an alliance."
"heyno"
"hey wow this is a great idea!wait, no, no it isn't."
"this thread is bad and you should feel bad."
"6 posts against0 arguments"
"wh space doesnt allow claiming sov on purpose. so he basically killed his own proposal when he suggested holding sov in wh space. not our fault."
"durf derp hyuckccp says no... therefore... no argument needed.: o poh and \"no\""
"noone bothers to read carfully anymore. im am not advocating full 0.0 style sov in w-space. i am advocating a upgrade system for w-space. but appearantly there is somthing wrong with being able to make the system you reside in beter."
"durp durpnot so smart are you?1. not supposed to be able to just chill in a system and farm isk2. its not regular 0.0 -> go exploredurp durp out"
"not supported for reasons above.cheers!"
"also, noand not supported"
"durp durpwts reading and righten rathmatic"
"lets just create a server where botters and macroers can do whatever they want and not get banned or attacked anywhere. this would solve a lot of posts in the assembly hall."
"no. if anything ccp should remove pos from wh's.better yet would be to add sleeper fleets to attack pos. some would fall ingthe deflatable category and some would be a challenge and others would destroy anything you could put up to fight back."
"nice troll.whs is fine... leave it be."
"that's the worst argument you can have, honestly. and no.maximum allowable is a structure anhorable at pos that would have some supplementary function that slightly improve wormhole, but nothing like what we have in sov space. we do not whant to encourange people to barricade in a wormhole. what would be tolerable is to make it a valid place to stay in for slightly biggerr corps, so say anhuorable structure that gives 30-50% more sites of a chosen type, and can neither be stacked with itself, nor with other types of such structure could be interesting. but that is it."
"ccp whisper - for crying out loud... how much clearer do i have to be?if you dont like what you have then you go to a larger class wormhole space.ccp doesn't want you to stay put... so you should move to a new spot.whs systems can last upwards to a month if not more.if that's not enough then your doing something wrong.there is an entire science to wormhole space... learn that science and you won't have much to worry about."
"i, too, want higher t3 prices."
"that's not interesting, its stupid.wormhole space is for explorers. go ****ing explore."
"i know i'm just another in a long line of topics. but i feel that i'm looking at it in a different way than the several threads i have been reading. i think insurance should be simplified not complicated.insurance should only cover 50-80% what you paid on market for the ship in question (ie what you specifically paid). this of course doesn't cover trading or manufacturing. i think it should simply be the average regional price at the time it was traded or manufactured.above i mentioned covering 50-80 % of what you paid. this can be split into the three options currently available.1. regular 50%2. gold 65%3. platinum 80%from a programming point all of this information is readily available to grab and store.i think that this would encourage people to use insurance, when ships are expensive, and prevent people for exploiting it when they are cheap.i'm open to any constructive criticism, notice the constructive.cheers"
"not supported.at this point its a waste of time to offer anything inbetween the minimum and the max.i'd rather go with all or nothing.and yes your repeating the same bloody idea for the nth time... just different amounts."
"proposal: sticking random capital letters in threads should be mandatory."
"lol :)"
"i must have missed some threads. all the ones i have seen, want some complex average of manufacturing minerals divided by x y z costs and taxes, add nosium.i'm not apposed to putting insurance at 100%, but for me i feel that it defeats the purpose of a penalty, plus what insurance company ever gives you everything owed for something?cheers!"
"so i should be able to insure a shuttle for a billion isk because that is what i bought it for?you seem to think that this cannot be manipluted. again, it is entirely possible to bring the average price up far beyond what is \"reasonable\". stock pile shuttles, pump up the regional average for a few weeks, then go on a self-destruction spree.your idea would make things far worse than you can imagine."
"i'd settle for 1 of the 2 options:either remove the insurance system completely from anyone but real newbie players. (no more than 4 months old)or adapt american health insurance system in eve:increase premiums 2x for starters, and by 10% every yearno insurance for people with the pre-existing condition of negative security status or empire warinsurance can deny coverage in cases such as concord death, self destruct, or certain types of stupid deathsa minimum of 1 million deductible is appliedpremiums increase additional 20% after each ship death"
"you also have to wait for weeks for your insurance payout and only then after you contact a gm and chew there asses out royally about the delay."
"concord shouldn't let you store your ship anywhere, that's for sure.other than that, docking anything in a ship maintenance bay without any other sort of restriction is wai."
"doesn't take a lot of thinking to figure out ways to abuse this."
"as you're not very bright, i'll quote you a fact.edit: supported."
"concord kills me when i suicide gank, don't let anyone else get away with it!"
"it's 10 days, but yes, i definitely support this. if you're worried about people being freaked out by an expiry notice when their account is going to be renewed automatically, then just put a note about automatic renewal right next to it."
"i don't get alot of money and it's a case of being able to know when i need to start getting cash together again.. broken back means i'm on disability."
"i was wondering if eve could implement 2 ideas i had.1) a way to color code pilots in your corp chat. like a way to give their portraits a different color background. this would help organize certain levels of pilots. just really an idea. like a corp who has combat and miners, this way you can color cordinate who can do what without having to ask a billion people. same thing with alliance chat i guess.2) a corporation merger ability. if one corp decides to merge with another one. i know some of you will say alliance, but not an alliance. more like everyone from that one corp is merged into the other corp. all the pilots are transfered over without having to individually wait for every member to do so. you could put a timer on this if need be to fix exploiting. 48 hours or what not. decision is made by ceo of the corporation. corp [b] merges with corp [a] and all pilots from corp [b] are now in corp [a].just an idea or thought. doesnt really change any real game mechanics, just helps out with organization really."
"as a ceo or director of a corporation, i should be able to modify any of the market buy or sell orders currently active. perhaps even the contracts outstanding.in a corporation with several corporate traders and alts of traders, it's very frustrating for me to have to fly my own alt halfway across the universe to modify an order i setup myself on another toon.of course the required skills would be involved, and perhaps move the order into your stack if you've modified them. so you'd need an open order available to do so. but otherwise i don't see why i wouldn't be able to change the price on something my corporation is buying or selling. it's my corporation, i should be able to change prices on a whim.thanks for reading!"
"current situation: if someone, hypothetically speaking, has a crazy corpmate who lets a tower run itself out of fuel and plans to pick it up later, and one chooses to clean up their friend's mess, one has a bit of a problem. it seems that one can't unanchor a tower when there's structures anchored around it, and one can't unanchor structures around a tower without said tower being online. thus, one would need to fuel one's hypothetical crazy friend's tower and turn it on in order to be able to clean it up, which is at least one step too many. proposed solution: either make it so that the tower doesn't have to be online to unanchor structures around it, or make it so that you can just abandon the structures around a tower if you want to(they'll work the same way as they do when a tower blows up). of these, i think the first is preferable - it's a smaller change, and less likely to make something stupid happen. benefits: less stupid hoops to jump through. drawbacks: ccp might have to mess with pos code."
"sure. although every proposal involving poses just screams \"rework from ground up\"..."
"op lacks content. thread locked."
"i would like to propose a new system wherein combat drones of an identical type can be grouped into one logical drone swarm. the swarm would have identical stats to the type of drone it would be associated with, but with a few caveats:1: damage multiplier is multiplied by the amount of active (or intact) drones in the swarm.2: when damage is received, it is applied to a drone at random. this goes for rr as well.3: ewar would apply to all drones, as they are a collective unit.allowing a player to form a swarm would remove a large portion of lag overhead, make it so the terrible drone ai doesn't matter as much, all without significantly modifying balance.this is a generalized concept, though it is one that is worth exploring imo. please discuss."
"wouldnt that mean you could rr one drone and is would heal all of them or somthing..i see what your doing needs refining imo"
"i think he means the rr is applied at random rather, and i (even being gallente proud) can not agree with this, because it would cause all kinds of problems, and drones already act in this fashion more or less anyways."
"see them herefurther and more publication will be done next week with a devblog and more."
"excellent news, thanks for the fast turnaround"
"i've been so happy with the level of communication and timely minutes publication associated with this csm. great job, csm4 and ccp. thanks a ton.edit: just read the minutes; very impressed with the quality of communication that seems to have happened in that meeting. and omfg i lol'd at the low sec sandbox comment."
"thanks for posting. been waiting for some info.wish i was there.... /me whistles read the minutes. most of the topics have been hashed out one way or another on the forum so to avoid writing a novel i will pass on commenting on them. the one thing that did stand out to me was the change of the csm term from 6 months to one year and removal of term limits. if the csm goes to a one year term i would suggest having the november election as the starting point. that would do 2 things. it would reduce the \"free trip to fanfest\" csm interest. it would also allow the csm to have 11 months of experience under their belts when they are at fanfest. it my help show the csm in a better light to the player base... not making my point very clear here but i think people can understand what i am getting at.with a 1 year term i see no problem sticking to a 2 year term limit. it would be more then enough time for one player to hold the position, both from an influence as well as an experience perspective. while alliance's that provide voting blocks break up over time the players that are in those alliances do not. it is at it's core bob with some new faces. soldrakbansoldrakbansolo is the same old goons. the names may change but the voting blocks does not. the 2 term limit with terms being 6 months was a but much. a csm is really getting into the groove when they are forced out. tbh we see this in the california state legislature politics (2 terms 2 years each term). a 2 term limit of a year for each term is more then enough."
"the final paragraph was the most significant imo. tangible evidence of ccp's satisfaction with the csm."
"it's taken some time, and after the hideous failure of the first csm, a lot of ground has been made up.the csm is looking very promising now."
"point 1: nice to see prompt communication of the minutes; this is a real improvementpoint 2: disappointed to see so little commentary on issues from previous csms - one sentence saying they were reviewed? not terribly substantial. edit: on re-reading, there's to be a devblog on the status of these issues? ok, cool.point 3: \"projectile guns seemed more powerful than others\" i will find out who it was that made this claim. i will hunt you down, then find everyone and thing that you love and destroy them slowly before your eyes. then i'll go to work on you. your agony and suffering will be beyond comprehension.in game."
"good stuff. nice to see them up promptly this time, although some of the stuff in the discussion makes me a bit"
"i approve of this."
"destroyers: yay!faction warfare bugfixes: don't just say bugfixing is a high priority: give us a timeframe, even a rough one. make using them in the meantime petitionable. keep the communication open. commit...and show it.faction warfare long term: those of us who play and desire to enjoy fw do not like being effectively considered second class citizens vs 0.0 players. goes hand in hand with other lowsec pursuits."
"this csm seems extremely pointless. do these people have any constructive ideas on how to improve eve or are they just a pack of whiners? ccp's ideas presented to the csm would do more to freshen up the game, but the csm seemed to pooh-pooh the best ideas in order to whine that they can't deploy doomsday attacks in low-sec? wow, just what the playerbase is clamoring for. the above are fantastic ideas that would screw over boring and pointless station docking games. hopefully ccp doesn't take this csm too seriously if all they're going to do is bring little to the table other than a lack of vision."
"maybe you should read all of it?"
"this post seems extremely pointless. does the poster have any constructive ideas on how to improve the csm or is he just a whiner?oh the irony. anyway moving on. we presented many ideas to ccp and had lots of constructive debate with them (along with a couple of people complaining about dominion and sov )and if you actually read the footnote and the discussion the next day then you'd see we supported it in principle. the lowsec dd thing only came up for a few minutes, if you really think that was all that was discussed when only 3 of the csm even have titans then you need to get a grip...there were also many other things discussed which are still under nda. yes that is terribly convenient. i appreciate that many people think we all run for csm for the free trips to iceland but if you look at the meeting minutes from csm4 you'll see that many of us actually take it seriously.but i'm wasting my time because it is clear you have written us off already"
"aww man you've wasted so much pixels on that guy ;p"
"i did. that it took you an entire day to go \"oh hey, that's a good idea\" isn't a credit to you at all.if you want suggestions to improve the csm, there's an easy one: set up a better voting system so people like myself can vote in individuals who actually have fresh ideas, rather than \"wah, i want to fire doomsdays in low sec!\""
"you don't know the circumstances. the minutes only tell so much, and it's the end result that counts. several people were heavily in favour from the start (myself included), others were less convinced but after we had had more time to discuss the possible implications we reached an agreement on it. on the subject of lowsec dd's: again this had a bit more discussion and going back and forth than the minutes show. csm agreed that it would spark conflict in lowsec and result in many pretty explosions in the sky and possible epic battles over caught titans. if you think we are just looking for cheap ganks you are obviously unfamiliar with the mechanics of the new dd.also; stop whining."
"so you want a csm who just accept whatever ideas ccp suggest there and then without giving more than 5 mins thought about the outcome? with something as core as docking in station?really?considering the reaction on other forums to the idea is of utter horror i think us spending time discussing it properly is justified.point to the person on the csm who ran on the campaign of lowsec dds.oh wait, you can't because nobody did. and isn't that a new and fresh idea considering it isn't available in game now? seriously, please continue to base your entire opinion of the csm on a 5 min discussion in one of the 7 hour meeting sessions when somebody suggested lowsec dds could be interesting.i'm glad we have people on the csm who know enough about game mechanics to not simply rush into a new shiny idea without thinking of the consequences"
"i'd like a csm that brought interesting ideas like that to the table, period. that you hadn't considered such ideas prior to the meeting is the condemnation. in all of the minutes posted, most of the \"csm said\" tidbits were you guys whining that you should have more power, and you should be listened to more. which is fine and dandy, had you brought any interesting ideas up in the minutes to warrant such attention. there wasn't one fresh idea brought up by the csm in those minutes, just mostly whining about dominion and lag, which anyone can get on the forums from the unwashed masses. what few suggestions offered by the csm were merely small changes that would benefit 0.1% of the playerbase. i'm glad ccp is reaching out to the player base in order to test out new ideas, it's just too bad the chosen players don't seem acute enough to actually have any of their own thus far. hopefully that changes and you guys actually do some work."
"u mad?i think losec dd would be great"
"i too am wtf-surprised by the numbers (though it is no doubt, in fact, a classic case of a vocal minority) of luddites and doomsayers. do not listen to them, ccp.a couple of points:-incarna is unlikely to compete for resources with core mechanics projects, since it is 90% art and design and maybe 10% programming. it can be developped alongside more essential mechanics without hindering them to any significant degree whatsoever.-the expansion will attract new demographics, most of whom will also be active outside the stations. that means more players, a bigger and more vibrant economy, more workers for corps, more targets for pirates, more everything. the kinds of non-eve-compatible players the naysayers are worried about will not last past the trial period. oh, and it also means more cash for ccp, which in turn means a better game for all of us.-ccp has a track record of knowing what they are doing, and doing it well. all the sour-butt killjoys who cry about it being a sims-in-space are obviously living in their heads and making up excuses to be ridiculously and arbitrarily negative.carry on, ccp. we trust you."
"a good day to you all, i wanted to get in contact with someone from the csm or ccp in person, but it seems harder than i thought, if they are interested, they are all most welcome to contact me through ingame mail, i will give you my real life mail then, i rather not make it public since i might get spammed by alot of people.anyways, i've written a little document to gather most problems with the factional warfare mechanics, i have gathered complaints from people ingame and from the forum and combined them into a word document containing some possible solutions to those problems.the main reason for my post is the fact that the caldari militia is on strike until those issues have been treated or at least looked at and confirmed by ccp.- and i noticed this post was in the wrong location, but i can't delete it anyways, it's a good way to make people notice. i reposted in the appropriate area also.please do read this:docxdocpdf"
"/supportedthe mobility requirements that blaster platforms need in order to be useful are unbalanced with the amount of effective damage that they can put out currently.start with a boost to blasters, then we can look at tweaking individual ships."
"actually csm pointed at the iceland meeting that gallente are inferior comparing to other races .theres still hope."
"bump for the love of lowsex"
"to the top! keep supporting!"
"supported"
"minimum effort, maximum result."
"/signedfps were meant for pc anyways, are the ccp worried about the fact that people playing on pc might end up ripping all the console gamers to shreads? ^^and yes, each and every eve player has a pc, but not all of them have a console.. soooo.."
"the difference between a failcorp and a 'legitimate startup' is that one takes responsibility for it's own continued existence, and doesn't presume a 'right' to be there. you're quite correct - most war decs are selective in their targets - there's no shortage of failcorps out there, so why should they pick on yours if it doesn't suck? sometimes there's reasons for it, like a corptheft, smacktalker, canflipper, whatever. other times it's just because you look like the kind of corp that isn't going to fight back, and is going to die pointlessly and drop good loot. the way to stop this happening is to stop making yourself a target - there's no shortage of ways to do this, and the easiest one is 'stop being the fish in the barrel'."
"problem is we've done it all short of the abusive/exploitive hiding in npc corps to evade war-dec.so in short its a total and utter waste of time to lecture me (of all people) as to how to get around it.the point is there is no way around it... end of discussion (as far as we are concerned).i don't infer the right to exsist... but i do think this is nigh practically harassment on the greatest levels.and the reasons for why they war-dec us are always the same... the same reason i give everyone else that complains.because they can.they don't need a reason.... and the ones they come up with are epic fail to begin with. (mining permit would be the most utterly stupid one i can think of off hand)so please... don't give me the gritty details of how to get around it and how to evade it... because when it gets right down to it... if your in a corp... they can war-dec you no matter who you are or what your doing.they will war-dec you... regardless... its just a question of who and what.you could be casually flying a little industrial hauler that's empty and they war-dec you because they see you all the time in some market hub.never mind the guy smack talking for 1vs1's and dis-hororing them with a neut repper etc..etc..etc..ultimately its a greifing tool... and nothing but. some use it for other reasons... others use it for legitimate reasons... but overall 9 times out of 10 its to greif someone for something as simple as desire.how do we fix it? i don't have the slightest idea... every suggestion i've seen would bring too much favor to high sec or ruin high sec with non-stop carnage worthy of low-sec and 0.0.like it or not... industrialists (carebears as i loath to be told as i prefer industrialist with teeth) are here to stay... you have no ammo...no ships..no nothing without us.but they don't give a crap..and come up with all kinds of excuses.... so yes... the debate will likely continue on for an another 3 to 5 years or so."
"am i the only one that reads the accusations of 'griefers with real life problems' and understands the statement as 'i have real life problems would you please stop griefing me i'm tired of crying myself to sleep'. trolls excluded in this analysis as they are irrelevant.as someone who has never partook in that many high sec wars i am going to say, no this idea is dumb. as much as i find docking games online adventures a terrible terrible waste of time, i can't find it in my heart to take that whack a mole game away from people."
"you are confusing who is whom.i am not the op, who suggested eliminating non-consensual wardecs.i am the one who wants them balanced with mining decs -- a state of being that prohibits the decced from leaving station or going through gates unless in a mining barge, exhumer, or industrial. i want to be able to force the griefers to do something as boring and pointless to them as i find combat to be -- something for which they have not trained their skills -- or leave their corp or stay docked and twiddle their thumbs.again, we are paying real world money. that fact should be sufficient to ccp to design a means to prevent bored cowards -- who would be in low-sec or null-sec if they really wanted pvp instead of risk-free shooting of fish in a barrel -- from preventing paying customers from playing the game they purchased."
"drake, you're missing something here. we are an industry focussed corp, and have been for 5 years. we've never really had a problem. actually, if someone would like to wardec us, that would be lovely. it serves very nicely as a training exercise. that's why i would 'lecture' you - because i have quite literally 'been there, done that' and that's why i assert that the current scenario is not a problem.wars aren't griefing, any more than mining someone elses roids are griefing, or undercutting them on the market. the mines in minesweeper aren't 'griefing' you. they just part of the game - part which separates the men from the boys. (or the carebears from the industrialists with teeth if you prefer)\"because they can\" is true enough, but you're projecting altogether too much animosity onto another player. it's more like 'because they can, and because it'll work'. if they don't get any kills during the war, or worse end up losing ships, then they probably won't bother in future. it really is that simple - 'griefing' you specifically really isn't worth the effort, unless you've gone out of your way to annoy. oh, and you'll probably find that most of the 'griefers' you refer to, are more than capable of doing their own manufacturing and industry. the strategic thinking team player who's effective in pvp is almost certainly also going to be effective should they choose to turn their hand to industry as well."
"translation: eve is not really a sandbox. there is only one right way to play and anyone who wants to play in any other fashion must be crushed, ridiculed, and driven out of the game.yeah. right."
"i find the stance that just because you are paying someone to play their game, gives you and form of right to dictate how their game is played rather idiotic. i myself enjoy playing eve online even with all the faults and lolunfairness that comes a long with the game. however lets both be clear on a point, the 'griefers' are also paying for this game, you have no monopoly on this paying concept the only difference is that you are paying for a game you do not like apparently. how foolish is that."
"and you are missing the point. and i'm beginning to think it's on purpose. no one is stopping you from playing the game you purchased with your real world money. until a war dec comes through that boots you out of the game and locks out your login account, that statement will never be true no matter how many times you bold underline parts of it.if the problem is that you don't like other active players being able to dictate (in part) the content of your game experience, then i have bad news for you -- you are playing the wrong game."
"then you support the mining dec idea?so that i have an equal chance to dictate the content of the griefer cowards game?"
"imho, the op did have a point. as things stand it is incredibly easy (and far too cheap) for a greifer corp to wardec an industrial/mining corp and do very bad things to any mining ship foolish enough to come out of dock. of course since you do get 24 hours, you could go set up a pos in wormhole space and go make real money for a while while your enemy goes broke. (oh wait as long as one of them donates a single lvl 1 mission a day they can pay the declaration fee forever.) to players who have been around a bit, a wardec from a highsec greifer corp just means time to go work out in low / null and watch as they spend money on the dec, but are afraid to come out into low / null to get any kills. oh, right... that's why they pick on carebear mining corps.as an alternate idea i'd reccoment a change to teh wardec pricing, bringing the base price of 2-3 mill a week (seriously if both corps have no wars, it only costs as much as 3 tractor beam 1's)to something a little more consequential, say a base of 10 - 20 mill a week. i actually like the highsec wars - i just think that there needs to be enough of a cansequence of starting a war other than potential losses to make people think twice about just tossing the wardec out there. if you have a good enough reason, you will find a way to pay the dec cost no matter how high just to make the other sob bleed."
"well we got a wardec because a corp run by holy8th, decided to wardec us. his corp was onyl going after miners and failing at killing a few combat ships without having 5 people on one. but recently an alliance heard about this and wardeced holy8th's corp. his corp got station camped so they stop the war. then rumor has it he payed a merc corp 700 mil, to wwardec this tiny little indy corp. thats pretty funny and sad at the same time.diplomacy does help, but once an indy's money reserves run out, they cant do much in a war dec. thats why system war decs would be a better solution, so if you dont want to fight you can leave, but consequences you could easily lose your mining sites near your hq. this would be a great solution but a lot of trollers tend to add a bunch of rants to this thread so a lot of people didn't see the good posts."
"you already do. industrial corps have a direct impact on the amount of isk pvp centric players pay for their equipment. it's a symbiotic relationship in which neither would survive very long (or at least not happily) without the other.you're not getting the idea behind eve. it is not an instanced world. it is not neatly divided pockets of activity. it is, more than any other mmo, just like the real world. everyone is all smashed up together, and what you do affects other people, just as what they do affects you.the griefers, as you refer to them, do not dictate how you play the game unless you let them. certainly they dictate what happens around you, but no more or less than a suicide ganker at a gate, or a market competitor that undercuts your sale of emp m. if you want a game where you're not impacted by other players - i reiterate, you really picked the wrong game."
"wardecs could use a price increase, but that's about it.sorry, op, but your idea won't happen. it flies directly in the face of the core principles of eve, one of which is that nowhere is entirely safe."
"this thread is still lols."
"the sandbox still forces you to play within the rules set by the game. you can not project a bubble of immunity around you while still playing the market just as i can not decide that i want to put a doomsday device on my rifter."
"to the op,the thing here is that war decs only lasts for a week.my recommendation would be to train a bit of pvp skills - not too much, get everyone to spend a couple weeks on some missile / gunnery / propulsion jamming / mwd, then build yourself i dunno, 20 rifters (or similar) each and pvp fit them.tuck them away in a hangar and go about your mining.when you get a war dec, treat it as a holiday from mining and go pew pew for a week - i guarantee by the time you have burned through 20 rifters each you will have made many mistakes, learnt much about pvp basics, had a good few laughs and maybe, maybe even gotten a kill.as with rl, a change is as good as a break, and mining will get pretty tiresome pretty quickly if it's all you ever do.i realise pvp isn't what you want to do, but hiding, crying and feeling put upon is not going to enrich your game experience - putting the barges away for a week, building some cheap pew pew ships and getting stuck in will - especially if you accept you're going to lose at first, review what happened after every loss, and try to figure out what you can change for next time to prevent that particular loss again.i think you can see from the responses you got here, the wardec system is unlikely to change the way you want, so your best bet is to find a way to turn what you're seeing right now as a negative into a positive.good luck,"
"how nice of you to have a very lucky 5 year run streak.i stand by what i said... if you want to take it out of context or misinterpret what i'm saying then go right on ahead.bottom line is.. the mechanic is broken and the age old excuses people keep coming up with are bull****.that goes for both sides... war-decced and war-deccer.and just because you've had little to no trouble doesn't mean everyone else hasn't.you can pep talk us all you want... you can attempt to rationalize all you want. won't work.because the facts are still there.. the history of what we've had to see first hand is still there.alot of eve is based on luck and various small choices... perhaps we've made some mistakes... that's what makes eve so great... the sandbox is big and crowded in high sec... probability of escaping/getting someones attention shifts all the time.fact remains... if i go back to high sec... it would be stupid to be in a corporation that lives in high sec unless you have a capable and good sized pvp force or skilled in such ways where you can handle it.trying to retool an industrialist.... to pvp without getting an additional account... is wholly stupid and utter tripe at best.and war-decs as a vacation? only works if it happens once a month.back-to-back-to-back war-decs and war-decs that stack on top of each other quickly shoots that down.and for what reasons did we get war-dec'd so often?none at all... because they wanted to and they did."
"i have to disagree here. because they can, adn they like other's tears, and they don't have the guts to dec someone who fights back."
"ccp has asked already to stay in topic. do you think that said request doesn't affect you? or do you have anything else constructive to add to this thread? because except from puny oneliners, there is not much comming from you, aside some hot air.on topic: as it stands, there are lot of griefers, who are not able to beat someone in a \"real\" and even leveled pvp scene, war-deccing young, weak, poor, non experienced and small corps. i would propose the following:a) make war-deccing the more expensive the smaller and younger the war-declared corpb) remove war deccing for corporations that exist for less than 4 months."
"i can see what you are trying to do, unfortunately that suggestion would not work.a) so what, war dec's between 500-men corps become nearly free? that is not right. what happenes if small corporations whant to duke it out because they ****ed each-other off? b) what if noobs want to duke it out? what if someone creates a new corp every 4 months?"
"don't be ridiculous. eve is a sandbox. that means you have to deal with the other kids in that sandbox. not try to partition it off and say 'this is my bit, go away' and throw a tantrum when they don't see it that way."
"you're quite correct. the difference is, i took the problems onboard when they came, and dealt with them. then they weren't a problem any more. utter nonsense. it takes _very_ little effort to be a threat in combat. it's much more about mindset and thinking, than it is about skill points - even after the 5 years, i'm still flying t1 cruisers a lot, because they are still very effective. but perhaps you're right - it's definitely easier to take a team oriented focussed individual that happens to like pvp and retrain them into industry."
"alright, i'll add some more hot air.eve is about pvpwars are about pvpif you log in, you agree with the chance of being blown up.don't like that? hello kitty online is that way ------------------------------>this is the best reply you're gonna get, and guess what, most ccp personnel will say the same, so shut up and fight back."
"opposed, high sec war decs are part of game."
"1. prices are dictated right now by inventors. a lot of stuff without t2 bpo's are unprofitable to make because of other inventors not knowing how to do basic math. 2. invention came in and dropped the price of t2 by over 97%3. t2 bpo's will expire all on their own through:how?1. owner quits the game.2. exploiter gets billions of isk and buys up a ton of t2 bpo's for insane prices and gets banned. (see the moon goo exploit).the impact of the t2 bpo's is pretty much all gone. removing them would increase prices slightly, but would not increase the profits of inventors. if you want proof of this, just look up the profit margins of stuff that doesn't have a t2 bpo.you may say \"oh voogru u own t2 bpos so of course your against this\".so i say, you are probably an inventor and you do not like competing with t2 bpo owners. you think your profit margins suck because of t2 bpo owners, they suck because of other inventors. when invention came out the profits were total awesomesauce. once everyone and their dog was doing it, the profit margins went down significantly.but if you think t2 bpo's are the problem why you can't profit...invent stuff that doesn't have t2 bpo's.invent whats profitable, not what you just have some strange obsession with. don't fall in love with an item. of course this is going to fall on deaf ears because you just want to have everything your way."
"i'm gonna go against the flow and support this. not just because i don't have one, but because it would break open the market a little and put a stop to a virtual risk-free source of income."
"how is producing from a bpo less risk-free than invention+production?"
"they already do have advantages and disadvantages.advantage: you can research me level, you can build without datacores and t1 bpc.disadvantage: you must build consecutively. by inventing multiple bpc, inventors can build concurrently.this is a real biggy, folks - bpo have a fixed maximum amount of runs theoretically possible in a month.lets say mr bpo has a ship bpo and it can build 30 (one per day).mr inventor invents 10 x 3 run bpc - they can all be put in the oven at the same time - unfortunately due to negative pe he can only build one per 2 days instead of one every day like mr bpo can - but hey look! he's still cranked out all thirty of his ships (that takes mr bpo a month) in under a week!!if you're committed to this, it is possible to build in volumes that far outstrip what a bpo can produce.and before anyone starts on about how inventors can't compete due to the bpo's me level cutting back margins - these margins are not the fault of bpos / bpo owners, i'm sorry to say it's our fellow inventors - if it was the fault of bpo owners, then we would logically see much more profitable invention on items like hic, black op, marauder, jf etc that have no t2 bpo equivalent - i've tried inventing all of these and the margins on these are just as tight as on hac / recon etc that do have a bpo equivalent.no support for this idea from me - it's just sour grapes tbh."
"yet many people have enough t2 bpos to fill all their production slots so that limitation isn't relevant to them.the fact that in some sectors all ships come from t2 bpos does demonstrate that there is unfair competition.it is a flawed part of the game that significantly devalues the benefits of the vast amnounts of sp required for efficient invention ( using t2 bpos also require far far less sp )the only reason i won't support this is because this proposal is flawed as it doesn't propose a workable way of compensating the t2 bpo owners. if someone came up with that i would support it."
"how about let them keep their bpos?seriously stop being ridiculous. the razor guy above made it pretty damn clear. just because you can't meet your full potential as an inventor doesn't mean the bpo owner should be screwed."
"you has youself contribute to getting rid of bpo's in game, buy them from their current owners and trash them. what? you don't whant to spend your isk on it? why should then the current owners lsoe their long-term investment?"
"supported :)"
"invention takes time (effort) and a bit of luck, bpo's = buy, produce, profit."
"ccp themselves admitted that the t2 lottery was a bad way of distributing t2 bpo's. while they will be removed eventually by people going inactive, they still provide a steady source of income for those that own them without requiring much effort aor involving risk. ccp wants an 'emergent sandbox', and t2 bpo's are not part of that anymore."
"t1 bpos should be gotten rid of then. no risk to them."
"missing the point, cheap troll.t1 bpo's are freely available and can be researched by everyone and produce less specialised mods."
"1. invention isnt much about luck. it comes down to skills. a dedicated inventor gets easily to the percentage of successful inventions as shown on"
"i've heard this request before..i know little of industry myself but you're welcome to write a proposal about it and i'll support it."
"nice dodge replying to that and not to:"
"and, if that happens, you make less profit? the point is not the exact amount of income but rather the fact that it's steady and requires very little effort."
"less effort yes.very little no.keeping t2 production running is also a lot of work. especially when you are not just building one thing.seriously we are talking about a non issue here. invention is fine and t2 bpos are fine."
"in my humble opinion, i think new players should have the chance to get anything older players once had the chance to get.there should be multiple occasions of unique items being handed out or none at all.t2 bpos were cancelled by ccp, so i would agree that they should disappear, of course with a small refund for the owners.i find this similar to owning ships that were handed out during some event. i'd say that if all ships of a kind get destroyed there should be new ones issued in order for new players to get a chance to get their hands on one, or perhaps even make them a little less unique, just very hard to get (sorry if i sound a bit clich<U+FFFD> here, i understand people want unique stuff, but it's just that new players don't ever get their hands on the cool old-skool uniques ships because they all get destroyed or bought by entity).same with unique items of course if there are such left after t2 bpos (no not the snowballs :p).i vote procd"
"it show you don't know how industry work.the amount of income is very important. i own 2 t2 bpo (quake l and barage m). the hourly profit is 50k for one, 167.500 for the other. i can get more with any of the t1 ship bpo i own, with any of the invented items i normally produce and even with some of the t1 module for wick i own a bpo (and there i am suffering from mission loot as a competitor). so, to reply to your question: yes if you can't change product and the price change you get less profit.when you have an asset like a bpo (t1 or t2) that allow the production of a single item, when the price of that item crash you asset lose use value even if you (theoretically) can resell it for its original cost. with t2 bpo that problem is compound as the item has a large purchase cost against the income it produce. a t1 ship bpo cost can be recovered in a few months of research and production, a t2 bpo require a few years. every time the price crashes you should choose between continuing production (and losing from the production of potentially more rewarding items) or discontinuing it and further delaying the recover of your purchase cost.beside that, what i feel ius the most important point hasn't yet been replayed by the pro removal people:some t2 item will totally disappear from the game as it will never become profitable to invent them. you feel that it will enrich the game to see them disappear?"
"you are really that stubborn?you are new? you want a t2 bpo? sell orders forum is your place. i would bet a large number of the current t2 bpo owner bought their bpos.what we dont need a new version of the lottery."
"if you are trying to designate corp tax to the members that paid it, why don't you set corp tax to zero? item sales, manufacturing charges, and i'm reasonably sure everything else that can be handled via corp wallet subdivisions is already functional in game."
"i'd say to also allow combat probes to be saved this way, but if there is a game balance concern, just increase the time it takes for the probes to conduct the scan."
"but that means the guys who are actually good at combat scanning, and do minimise their probe visibility, are taking a negative hit just so all the newbie ones don't have to arrange their probes."
"genius! would allow me to kill pve boats in my pvp ship with no concord.way to go dude!"
"an active armor bonus should allow a ship to fit a better active tank than a similar ship with a resist bonus. resist bonuses are great for spider and buffer tanking as well as active tanks. current %repair-amount bonuses need some re-thinking, especially considering the capacitor dependency handicap that active tanking incurs./supported"
"perhaps to solve this annoying cloakers in your home system problem, ccp could add a new item that works with the new sov, that negates the ability of your enemys to sit cloaked and safe in their sss. an upgrade like this should only be available in your well used systems, every system that employed something like this would make cloaks useless.how it would negate the cloakers ability to hide forever, perhaps make it so cloaking devices gain damage while used, when they get too damaged, the modules die. this would happen like you were overheating the module. another possibility would be for everyone but blues and alliance members would simply not be able to use cloaks (rp reason, the cloak has to be on a certain frequency or it doesnt work)."
"mmmmmmph... not this again.i don't think you're taking into account the trade off cov-op ships make for using their cov-ops cloaking devices.cloakers tend to be, on average, weaker than their t1 counterparts in terms of tanking. yes, they get the upgraded t2 resists, but they die pretty quick under sustained fire. the stealth bomber in particular will die to pretty much anything that has a weapon and point.as for catching them... you can nab them at the gate when they enter or leave system. you just need a fast enough point (or a bubble if you are in 0.0).now, with regards to \"afk cloakers\"... if they are truly afk then you have nothing to worry about. they are simply, as you stated, \"annoying.\" so go out and do your thing. on the off chance that they are not afk and poking around or hunting for targets, well... that's the risk you take. remember, a good cov-ops pilot will not engage you unless they feel the risk of de-cloaking is worth it (i.e. you are easy pickings)... which is really the point behind such ships anyways.not supportededit: grammaredit2: spelling"
"*facepalms*the cloaker is *not* the problem. your lack of balls is. think about it."
"0.0 in \"supposed to be dangerous\" shocker."
"not to mention a lack of a backbone....and an over abundance of yellow."
"actually, i'd be fine with an anti-cloaker module, as long as it cost so much that it was only used on truly critical systems. if you're willing to pay 100 mil/day to prevent cloaking, be my guest."
"with one of the index's at level v.perhaps security/military.personally i feel it should be tied to industry/prospecting??... as its very easy to raise the security index.yes its unrelated but it would make them work for it."
"you scurred?"
"the afk cloakers are an issue in 0.0. i do believe something should be done about them. i do not agree that they should completely loose the ability to cloak. i think possibly an achorable module similar to the cyno gen array could be developed. my thoughts on this array: it would pulsate every hour, or some other ccp determided time, causing all cloaks to deactivate in the system. if the cloaker is actively playing the game and not just wasting ccp bandwidth he can easily cloak back up. cloaks should be immune to this pulsating for the fist 10 min of activation to prevent any \"i tried to cloak on the gate but the decloaker array screwed me\" events. th\he cloaks would keep thier current reactivation timer. this device would allow the inhabitants of a system to fight cloakers back. afk cloakers that return every 3-4 hours to try and catch a miner, hauler, or other people should not have that ability. if the inhabitants of the system pay attention to the array and know its cycle time, which would probably be the cycle time of the tower, they could have scanners at the ready to try and catch cloakers. like i said previously, if the cloaker is actively playing the game, then this array would have no effect on his game play.i support this issue.lt"
"sure...you can have it.the day i get a \"undock your afk in station/pos booty into space\" butan"
"now that would be funny. everyone mining to keep their industry index at 5 to keep their 1hour anti cloak pulse. :d that would definitely fit the carebear pattern."
"still nobody from ccp wants to give us miners/industrialists some info i see no love for the miners/industrialsts then im guessing even the comet thing gonna turn out to be more of a turkey shoot for pew pewers to scrap our ships too come on ccp give us a notification that you actually atleast read this say something will you"
"hi,i have a proposal which i don't know if it has been propose yet but whatever here's another one currently there is no sov possible in wh space but i'm just asking myself why? but with all the new feature coming to eve with tyrannis the new expansion. well, i think we should have sov in wh space because of all the logistic necessary for those tower but it requirer sov to anchor some outpost in which you can have all you need to support your corp in wh. yes we have no stargate so what? we could have a system for that in which in wh you can also jump from place to place if you are within jump range of your other tower with cyno gen. all you need is to be fair compare to ''normal'' space as we (some corp and alliance) live in wh space so if we can enter a supercarrier in some wh why couldn't we get our sov and anchor outpost if we have the isk for that?kinza(ps: i would like to have an official answer to this too as i already petition but got no answer any ccp or csm member are welcome to give me any answer)"
"no"
"why?"
"wh space  known space."
"currently it is like that but what is the diference between the 2? wh has some effect on starship sometime execpt for that there is no diference at all we just requiere sov and jump capability so why we couldn't have it?"
"ccp says no... therefore the answer is no."
"outposts? sov?building up a fortress in wh space is already ridiculously easy. now you want a pretty gold star on the map saying you own it?be real dude.the answer is simply no."
"you know one of the features of wh space is no sov.and we like to keep it that way. thank you.(that of course means not supported)"
"linking this because the ah gets a lot more traffic than jpsc at the moment.."
"please leave all comments about them in that thread btw."
"how is this important anyways? i accept the fact that some people play kill mail on line, but those same people gloat over killing a t1 hauler smack full of bpc's that are showing bpo prices on teit kill board. when in fact all they did was kill a 200,000 isk ship with 2-3 days worth of copy slots (that can be up to 220 bpc's max run btw).also i don't want people to know about the low grade slave set i lost in a shield tanked arazu. that sucked ."
"well to put it into a context that maybe everyone can appreciate, what if you're a mercenary corporation, and you're trying to show how much damage (financially) you've inflicted on your current marks. for your client to know that the victims have also lost several billion in implants as well as their ship will make them a happy customer, but there's currently no way to know this.what if your awesome re-imbursement program also extends to cover low grade slave sets lost in official operations ;) no way to know who did and didn't have these implanted.what's the difference between seeing what modules someone had in their lost ship (awesome/insane/fail or otherwise) and seeing what implants they had poking out of their grey matter (awesome/insane/fail or otherwise)?ok how about a module for those with maxed biology to be able to probe frozen corpses and work it out? no? (joke)"
"yup, i'm down with the implants-on-killmails idea.however i'd only support the looting of implants if it was also possible to unplug and re-use them in the normal course of events.this is because if unplugging them yourself destroys them, then someone else unplugging them from a corpse should also destroy them."
"yes yes yes, sometimes implants are worth more than the ship. this would also give a whole new meaning to ransoming"
"clone grade quality is quantity and quality of neural connections in the brain of the medical clone at the medical facility that your body is cloned back to. if there number is insufficient to properly assimilate information from your previous body, some information may be lost. as soon at the body becomes alive (you jump into it/you are cloned back to life) the effective quality of your bodies brain becomes infinite as more neural connections will be created by the brain when necessary, that's a natural process that takes place when you learn, and that is why you can exceed your clone limit. therefore determining the quality of the body that you killed is impossible as it does not correspond to the normal specifications of bodies stored at medical facility, as normal processes of metabolism, lyfecycle of cells, death of brain cells due to use of drugs, boosters and alcohol change the brain a lot. neither can you determine the quality of the clone to which you victim was cloned, because that clone is light-years away from you at the medical facility, and i doubt that if you kill a guy, and then call up medical personal at his alliance outpost to ask them the clone cost so you know how much damage you did, they will be eager to tell you. determining the exact model of a microscopic implant included in someone's head when you shot through his body a 1400 mm projectile, or 1000mm plasma bolt few million degrees hot will be problematic at best."
"wow people who do not support this topic are unusually poor at coming up with reasons for not supporting."
"exactly, stop being stupid."
"hmmm, i'd like to support this, but the potential to increase lag / server load means i really can't.if you'd put in some sort of caveat that the modification would be client-side only, so that the only person who sees your ship how you made it is you, and that there was zero effect on the server, i might have given it the thumbs up."
"you know, every expansion increases server lag because there is bigger database taht needs to be searched. every new account increases server lag. every new module increases server lag. let's stop updating eve at all to prevent server lag."
"haha -.-"
"de.... you are utterly fantastic.thank you for that! been needing a good laugh.oh and this.*there is a reason my char has shades. b-)*ps: the sunglare stays.... pvp'ers use this as very clever and valid tactic. don't like it? get more sunblock."
"my eyes are sensitive to light actually, and a dimming feature would be nice+1 from me"
"station management really requires more than 2 options for giving access to the services"
"good idea.ccp, make it so!"
"supported"
"roll-back dominion.why?because i'd like to be able to load systems and don't want to have to wait 3 minutes to jump through a gate all the time.it would be nice if modules activated when they were asked not at some future time at their convenience.and i'd like my guns to work in fleet fights, i kind of miss actually shooting things."
"did you honestly thought that by posting that... that it would pass and carry through?i thought so.some people have too much time on there hands."
"excellent grammar, draconis. i think fellraven may have a flare for the dramatic, but this doesn't diminish the perspective he's giving. an expansion meant to level the playing field and create opportunity has only managed to maintain the status quo (with the exception of the ol' bob buddies) while creating apathy and disdain for a game that was more functional pre-patch."
"didn't you mean flare for emo-rage?going around making \"demands\" is gong to make you look like a fool.add to that repeat posting of same thing is going to just make it downright annoying and less constructive.for all intents and purposes i'm fine with what we got now... other than the obvious lag issue.and my macbook running hotter than it needs to for some damn reason.but you don't see me running around emo'ing it about it now do you?ccp says they are working on the problem.... they are working on the problem then.screaming \"i want it nao\" won't make them work faster...just slow them down trying to clean up the trash.and since when has ccp ever rolled back an expansion set?i rest my case."
"gunsguns are a primary weapon assigned to a hard point on most ships. gun users sometimes have missile hard points which they may (and most often do) use for support modules like neuts, rr, and smartbombs. gun users also often have drone bays for additional damage or to kill small stuff.gun users have mid slot and low slot modules to increase range and tracking of their main weapon. they have low slot modules to increase all three profiles (damage added to these). they also have rigs to increase all three profiles.gun users often rely on drones and most often have goodly drone bays.missilesmissiles are a primary weapon assigned to a hard point on few ships. missile users sometimes have gun hard points which they may (and most often do) use for support modules like neuts, rr, and smartbombs. missile users also often have gimped drone bays (if any at all) for additional damage or to kill small stuff.missile users have no modules to increase range and tracking of their main weapon. they have low slot modules to increase damage only. they also have rigs to increase all three profiles.missile users rarely rely on drones and have poor drone baysdronesdrone ships (fewest ships) rely on drone damage primarily though they have missile or gun hard points which are often ancillary their role. they have damage bonuses to all drone damage types and sizes and most often have damage bonuses to their hard point weapon also.drone users have high slot modules to increase range, mid slots to increase speed and low slot modules to increase tracking and range of their main weapon. they also have rigs to increase all three profiles.turret ships most often benefit from drones more than missile ships.your point again?edit spelling and somesuch"
"this is based on speeds of target ships tested before the nano nerf with missiles attempting to engage pre-nerf nano ships. if you re-read the devblog you will gleen that missile velocity can be increased considerably over current rates to engage most ships at their current speed well before before they start \"acting funny.\""
"you have missed a few correction, highlighted in red.and hardwirings for all the weapon stats. and hardwirings for all the weapon stats. 0 hardwiringsthe oinly thing that increased damage is a rig and work only for sentry dronesno t2 variants of any module 1 faction variant of the high slot range module, no other faction variantyou want to exchange the number of modules, rigs and hardwirings?"
"don't seem so hard to comprehend:\"we did some basic tests ... with special high-speed missiles, we quickly noticed destiny (our physics engine) behaving very strangely\"seem pretty straightforward. i see no mention of ship speed in that phrase, and you?the whole dev blog was saying that speed above 15 km/s for any object in the game create problems, but this phrase is aimed specifically for missiles."
"my point venkul, is that the op has a proposal to bring missile ships more in line with turret ships and to show that he has a valid point. also to show that your post is not only off topic but derails from the thread.you could argue that the proposal fails to meet muster on its merits, but i doubt you could show many ways it this is true. instead you point out the fact that drone users have no implants. it has nothing to do with this topic and you know better.what you should do is create your own proposal offering a fix to that completely different issue rather than troll this thread. if you want to argue against this proposal be straight forward. i've learned to respect many of your post but this is clearly not your best moment."
"allow me to clear that up:devs were attempting to test increasing velocity of drones and missiles to counter nano ships. those nano ships moving were at \"ludicrous\" and \"phenominal\" speeds with up to an \"eightfold increase in speed over what a vessel can reach with a normal tech2 mwd.\"obviously they were attempting to have missiles and drones mimic and most likely surpass those \"ludicrous\" and \"phenominal\" speeds in order to intercept the target ship. at those speeds \"density (the physics engine) started behaving very strangely.\"seems pretty clear to me. to suggest missile velocity can not be increased at all without them starting to \"act funny\" and base it on this blog is fail. as long as missile velocity does not reach \"ludicrous\" and \"phenominal\" speeds there seems to be no problem. devs have no where stated the exact speed that causes this effect. look above. the speeds being tested where the \"funny\" behavior occurred were obviously well above this random 15 km number you have thrown out."
"nice work, you are good at twisting what ccp nozh said. this still stand even after all your weaseling:\"the combat system was never designed for such speeds\" it is not aimed only to ships, but to all combat system. missiles, drones and ships. about the \"random\" chosen 15 km second speed, look the thread i linked some post above and you will see why i am citing that as a threshold. it is the point where people start to notice some rare strange behavior like ship passing through solid objects. at 20 km second it become a common experience.but a rare occurrence can still wreak havoc to the functionality of a weapon system. that rare occurrence can make a whole salvo miss or, if it dependent from some specific condition for the bug to appear, it can make it useless till the conditions change.to make an example, for drones it happen sometime when they are totally unable to track a large stationary object. to change conditions you have to send them against a different target and them make them return from a different direction. for missiles it can be something like switching to another target, not something that will help much in a pvp situation where killing the selected target fast is the key. so i feel that keeping speed within that limit is something positive. maybe it can be pushed upward, maybe it already break the engine at lower speed but normally people don't notice it. that only the devs know. the point where the errors become noticeable to the players is clearly a point you don't want to reach. my point is that missiles don't need to be buffed as a whole weapon class (beside rockets and maybe some tweaking in explosion/speed damage).they are a good weapon class and different from guns. they are less efficient than guns in some situation (large fleet combat, mostly) but shine in other situations. this whole thread is one of the common attempts to push missiles as the top system in all situations. not good. missiles will benefit from some tweaking, but they don't need a general buff."
"a good day to you all, i wanted to get in contact with someone from the csm or ccp in person, but it seems harder than i thought, if they are interested, they are all most welcome to contact me through ingame mail, i will give you my real life mail then, i rather not make it public since i might get spammed by alot of people.anyways, i've written a little document to gather most problems with the factional warfare mechanics, i have gathered complaints from people ingame and from the forum and combined them into a word document containing some possible solutions to those problems.the main reason for my post is the fact that the caldari militia is on strike until those issues have been treated or at least looked at and confirmed by ccp.please do read this:docxdocpdf"
"i believe many don't wish to download the documents so i'll just post the document on this forum:(the document was originally meant to mail to someone so my apologies for that)part 1: introductiona good day,i know for a fact that most players in factional warfare would like to see some changes to the mechanics of it. i have gathered some information from the forums and the players themselves in game and combined it all into a single list.i hope to help players and ccp communicate better, since apparently most of the factional warfare problems players have been whining about are still not heard. if they have, i just hope you guys could actually confirm change because stuff in the caldari militia have gotten out of handthe caldari militia has gone into official strike by letting the gallente take over all of caldari held space, this will continue until we get confirmation of changes being made to factional warfare i took this quote directly from the forums:(link:"
"part 2: factional warfare suggestionsbugs:- there is nothing to note here: please just fix them.plexing:tactical outposts:- lp given in proportions to time defending or attacking a facility.- need for fuel (perhaps npc convoys that can be intercepted to lower effectiveness of the outposts).- instead of just waiting at the tactical outposts, having to blow up the structures and build new ones for your own faction when occupancy is achieved. (the building might need resources or just time).- random spawning of plexes, not alot at downtime an no more (or alot less).missions:- make missions have impact on occupancy status of a system instead of only plexes.bunkers:- bunkers replaced with militia outposts that act similar to 0.0 outposts (but easier to destroy).occupancy:- more clear indication to how much a system is into vulnerability.- control over systems should give advantages (like npc navy support at gates or something).- bonus for every occupied system (for example 0.5% more lp per system or % of systems held)pvp/stations:- making docking restrictions for enemy parties of the militia.- free repairs for militia members. (in militia stations)- due to the high amount of pirates in eve i'd recommend giving access to navy ships comparable to pirate faction ships but make them equally hard to get, like achieving a certain rank or amount of enemy navy kills or such. ships like the state raven (but likely not, since you probably wouldn't like making unique ships just rare :) ).- increase lp gained from kills, currently such system dont even seem to exist to some players.- militia members who willingly shoot fellow militia members should get severe sec status loss and faction loss. repeated engagement gets you kicked from the militia. miscellaneous:- filtering of members in faction warfare corporations: the numbers state caldari militia to have over 5000 pilots but i have never seen more than 300 online simultaneously in my time here. i'm almost certain that over half of them either quit the game or are alts to increase the number of pilots on the stats. i'd recommend to put inactive pilots in a regular npc corp, it doesn't affect them at all if they are inactive so it wouldn't hurt them.- more militia gm interaction.- electing a representative (and a spare) for each militia in new eden for csm/gm communications.- more news stories and events, or special missions.- recognition of achievements - such as, amount of victory points/kills per character."
"] vincent death > gives mission runner some incentive to plex other than just isk fountaining and not giving a **** what goes on pvp wise"
"we need a system to produce stuff which are borderline useless. with the whole simcity thing for trany expansion. we could have our slaves be producing this junk."
"open your eyes, i seeyour eyes are openwear no disguise for mecome into the openwhen it's cold outsideam i here in vain?hold on to the nightthere will be no shamealways, i wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovei wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovemelting the ice for mejump into the oceanhold back the tide, i seeyour love in motionwhen it's cold outsideam i here in vain?hold on to the nightthere will be no shamealways, i wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovei wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovewhen it's cold outsideam i here in vain?hold on to the nightthere will be no shamealways, i wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovei wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovei wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovei wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh lovei wanna be with youand make believe with youand live in harmony, harmony, oh love"
"ok who let the animal/troll out of his cage again?"
"everytime a troll trolls, you'll hear this song."
"not only supporting lowsec love in general, but this nifty idea in particular."
"so you want to add multiple modules (requiring artwork) as well as usage mechanics for the sole purpose of creating a revenue stream? they already have this - sell the items to npc dealers for a profit.while i support low-sec's revamp, this idea isn't that good. whether we like it or hate it, low-sec will probably require an overhaul from the ground up. now the only question is how to do it and what to turn it into.not supported."
"has some merit but needs work, i don't think it should be a isk faucet, but if it could be could to consume/convert the masses of worthless npc trade goods into something useful. one possibility is that running one of these lures in extra rats."
"if you saw them then you too were on at those times.does that make you a macro?people on these boards are always claiming that they can infallibly detect macros. yet every criteria they use to supposedly detect macros for sure is a trait also shared by some portion of the legitimate mining population.using bookmarks in the belt? check. any sensible miner bookmarks his/her favorite belts with pre-set positions to maximize the effectiveness of the strip miners.mining a hold full and docking? check for anyone who wishes to avoid canflippers.continuing to aim lasers at a rock that has popped? check for anyone alt-tabbed and multi-tasking.quickly switching lasers off a popped rock? check for those who are paying close and careful attention to their mining.doesn't respond to chat in local or via private messaging? lots of players don't bother with local for one reason or another. i personally find the spam and the smacktalk far too tedious to bother reading it.on \"all the time\"? if you are on to see them then you too are on \"all the time\" so either you're a macro too or they *gasp* actually could be other players who have a similar schedule to yours.and people always come up the with the same \"solutions\" -- either making mining annoying for real miners or creating a means of griefing via reporting so that even the most far-fetched accusation of macroness could set in motion a chain that would result in perfectly innocent players losing characters and accounts into which they've invested much time and money.i don't claim to know how prevalent or how rare macro-mining is. i don't know how to effectively detect and deter macros. but i am really tired of people proposing ill-thought \"solutions\" that would cast too wide a net over legitimate miners."
"so far the only thing i have seen a macro do that i have never seen a player do is warp to the station for 45 seconds, and then warp back into the ice belt for 45 minutes, repeat ad nausea - all while in a pod....."
"yet some people go to such lengths to defend macros....i am an on call person from my house, so i can be on at any given time of the day or night. if i come off a call and log in to see whats going on, they are there. when i log off, they are there. i've been on right after downtime, times all through the day, as well as many times right before dt hits. when i log on, they are there. exactly how much did you spend on your macro program to be defending macros so much? so basically, you say they should fly free? this needs supported so ccp will see people back them in finding better ways to end macro's and want to see it stopped. maybe some of the ideas here aren't the best. it is however a better attempt to end people using these programs than simply sitting in these threads defending macro users. where is your ideas? if you don't have any to support helping put an end to this, stop showing how much you support their use. if it can be brought up to ccp that alot more people are behind this, maybe the devs will put their heads together to come up with new ideas themselves."
"little thread, you have clearly lost your way. this has the familiar scent of caod all over it. please find your way there next time."
"even so, i don't think they should be un-scannable. make them damn near impossible to scan, sure, but not impossible."
"then petition it.otherwise its not going nowhere."
"and just to add to this it should also apply to cloaked ships as well. there should be a chance to find cloaked ships, especially if they're just standing still for long periods of time. i commend tortugan for bringing this problem to light."
"i like this part. it gives the defenders incentive to come and fight through all the timers instead of just turning up at the final timer, and even if the attacker gets beaten at the last timer, they've at least accomplished something (ie. isk loss). thumb up for this part."
"nicely done."
"a number of these items were discussed in iceland - see csm meeting minutes."
"can we please sticky this?"
"the black ops vessel is rarely piloted in the eve universe, yet its role would appear to be quite necesarry in an alliance. i believe this ship has become too expensive to completely serve it's purpose, or that the ship itself is not as effective as it should be. it's jump range is very limited, and unlike its counterparts that will be traveling along with it, it does not have access to a covert ops cloaking device. it also has the resistances of a sub-par battle ship, yet i undertand it is not made primarily for combat itself. i am not also suggesting to just slap a covert ops cloaker onto the ship, but possibly a specialized cloak for the black ops itself. it would be able to cloak while warping, but it will have a sensor recalibration time, unlike the covert ops counterpart. that way the ship will not be too over powered when regarding gank tactics involved in null and low security. the speed bonus to the cloaked velocity is easily overlooked as well, because it's purpose is not quite effective. in conclusion, it would be nice to see one of the following for changes regarding the black ops ship. a change in the requirement for jumping [fuel]. a new type of cloak whatever it may be. or atleast resists that can give it the ability to fend off longer in fleet engagements."
"if you read the latest csm minutes, the csm have proposed this to ccp and they will be reviewed."
"yessssssalso lol @ eontip of the spear? well you're getting shafted flying one of these!"
"earlier black op proposal"
"you do realize that being scammed on a character sale is a bannable offense, right? if you feel you've been scammed, the proper forum is to petition it and let the gms do their jobs."
"i think he means to propose a solution to the problem of accounts being hacked and characters being sold? if so, ccp is working on that (see csm meeting minutes)."
"please tell me where you mine so i can come by and can flip your cans.if you dont like it then dont jet a can. and by the way you have the option of shooting the can flipper last i checked, though you might not have the ability"
"well he is(was) a goon. however this is a terrible idea, it would remove my technique of getting my neutral alt to be able to web my freighter through highsec. so due to rational thinking and selfish interests i am calling this idea dumb."
"so you are saying that just because a crime was committed to you that concord should react. well how the hell is concord going to know about in the first place. also you do realize that if they still from you that you can then go a kill them for a set amount of time. not that i can flip because i have better things to do with my time but realize it is part of the game."
"what's wrong with can flippers?"
"no.hello kitty online is that way -->"
"hmmmmm noif you want sov. go to normal 0.0 and earn sov. and the right to upgrade it. in w-space you can make a **** load of isk as it is. so in my book keep carebear 0.0 (w-space) as it is."
"so i was thinking we might, for a change of pace, stop suggesting stupid ideas in the assembly hall.then i read this thread and realized my hopes were vain.thank you for diminishing my dreams of a brighter tomorrow."
"well i have learned alot just from the few posts you have put up. changing the thread name to canceled. i agree with your comments, the market can be manipulated and you either have to implement a harsh and/or sever system or none at all. which honestly, since i don't cheat the insurance system in eve, i don't even use insurance, it doesn't even begin to cover the costs of the majority of the ships i fly.thanks everyone for the comments.cheers!"
"i can respect that. :)good luck on your ventures!"
"hell yes, my insightful comments on lowsec are now official."
"something tells me cortante got drive by doomsdayed and never fully recovered lol.this csm brought a lot of good ideas to ccp and we gave them well thought out feedback on new features and proposed solutions to some issues we had raised and previous csms have raised. the csm as an institution is now poised to really put pressure on backlog/unfinished features/balancing type problems in a way that is unprecedented in the mmo world. you can be doubtful that what's in the minutes will be realized, but to look at that and say all we accomplished was whined about lag and told them to put the lowsec dd back is a pure troll. and i should know, nidia is in my corp."
"thank you xhagen for putting the minutes up. i eagerly expect the dev blog now as well as rest of blogs ccp agreed to put out as for csm 4.0, we managed to get some big stuff on the move and i am so proud of it. contrary to the impressions these meeting minutes leave, none of those subjects passed without a large and long discussion. some topics had most heated discussions going on like dominion, docking games, factional warefare etc.so to point once more, these minutes are more of a short summary of what went on.@verone tnx for the compliment, we do try."
"don't post much on the forums, there is so much i still don't understand and have no understanding of. but i have to say great job! i am avid reader of the csm forums and am very interested is where eve is going. i must say thank you for the time and effort this has taken. i have read every set of minutes and found you're efforts and thoughts to be outstanding. keep up the good work and maybe, just maybe we'll end up with a game that is not only not broken, but one that we can be proud of and continue to enjoy! o7 csm!"
"wow,i'm really happy with the accomplishments of this ccp term and overall the news looks great. i have a lot of ... trepidation ... about the undocking/overview discussion, as i think that while this is a boost to pvp groups, it hurts industrialists who are trying to make money by serving 0.0 markets. i hope csm will think hard about this before ccp decides to run with the idea, and think about ways (in conjunction with ccp) to help balance the equation out, as one of many reasons already highlighted that makes the nullsec barrier to entry high is lack of access to effective markets.thanks for all the work on the minutes - really great to see inside this discussions and the greater transparency is very, very much appreciated.ps - i would definitely buy a one-time authenticator. look at blizzard's take rate."
"wow, the csm has come a long way since the first one.the last \"stakeholder\" point was the ost interesting - would like to know more of what this actually means.cheers."
"i'd like to see any scam can't dock change be merged with a previously raised idea. i.e. apply only to people who have agressed (or repped) in the last 5 mins (or so, 15 mins could be a bit too long).this would mean people warping to a station to dock would be able to do so, and people undocking then docking again would be fine. however people undocking then agressing on station could be held there.i guess we will have to see where it goes..."
"so, since we heard about nda:how much of the meeting is under nda, how much isn't?1/3 not under nda, 2/3s under nda?1/3 under nda, 2/3s not under nda?50:50?"
"this. very much so.the problem with \"pointed, unable to dock\" is that it would effectively mean that one or two afk cloaker in a system would prevent individual dread/carrier/jf movements to that system due to the session change timer. would be too easy to catch lone caps that jump into station dock range by just doing a \"uncloak, bubble/point, cyno, profit\" maneuver.yes, sure, the station holder could deploy some cover for the jump yaddayadda nice theory. in practice it would just mean that afk cloakers get even more annoying.i have no issues forcing anyone who engages outside station to actually fight it out instead of deaggro-dock, but pure \"point, no dock\" is both illogical (wtf does warp drive scrambling have to do with docking?) and turns 0.0 logistics even harder, buffing up afk cloaker lameness by quite a bit."
"i think 1/3 would be about right, from projects related to current and summer / winter expansion packs."
"btw i put a link to this thread in my sig trying to get as many people to read it as possible"
"csm is now going to be a stakeholder within the ccp development ! o_oc o n g r a t u l a t i o n s to that enormous leap in importance. well done csm !!! well done ccp !!!"
"every time i read logs by the csm meetings, i can't help to think that the csm really doesn't do anything.csm: look at thisccp: mehit's getting kindda silly..."
"thanks for the prompt posting of the minutes, it was an interesting read.i like this idea, just a small notification on the character screen, or an in-game mail along the lines of \"you haven't changed your password for 30 days\", something non-intrusive that can be ignored or deleted in seconds, but also raises awareness for the player.i can think of an event where this affected at least 2 csm representitives on the same grid (the best way to get issues put forward indeed!) definitely a reasonable request though.please tell me these were not the only improvements you discussed, and the possibility of letting them use cov ops cloaks was at least hinted at ;)"
"best meeting note ever:that aside, i am very pleased to see the obvious increase in the quantity of this implementation of the csm over the last one. nice work."
"nice work. i'd suggest using assembly sub-forum and features to be investigated sticky there, so that each subject raised by ccp can be discussed and you get feedback.well done on stakeholder status."
"that is a good thing if you take into account that csm represents about 5% of eve population."
"overview when docked would be awesome, as well as hopefully 360 directional scanner... and implemented right the scramble denying docking could potentially make the game much better imho"
"all the good ideas are mineall the bad ideas are someone else's, probably song li"
"that's what he gets for not being elv's friend."
"believe it or not, i think this is more of a boost to those who are currently \"griefer\" targets than the griefers themselves. drawing from my experience as the guy who usually goes and fights those griefers on the industrial corps payroll, they heavily abuse the docking games tactics available now, whereas industrialists and casual players tend to be victims. we dont know what final form this will take obviously but if the principle holds it should level the playing field a bit in the victims favor while increasing the overall amount of pvp which will keep all pvpers happy except for those that currently rely on docking games + neutral rr for success.as to the \"it'll make carrier logistics in 0.0 hard\" have you ever considered fighting back? it's a carrier. not a ship that can protect itself? well maybe you shouldnt be moving it around without any escort with hostiles in local then. give your pvpers something to do, ask them to kill whoever is pointing you."
"what aleks said - it will emphasise the teamplay element of eve, it is after all a *mum*orpuger"
"catch 22people don't vote for csm because they don't see results. csm don't get support because of the lack of voters...the hope is that the stakeholder status will actually give people a reason to vote next time."
"more like stfu s is for soften... silly similar acronyms."
"if there was an equal isk sink put in place that effected pos's and sbu manufacture i don't see why not, but i am having difficulty seeing the why tbh."
"since black-ops are being reviewed thanks to the csm, he is my personal wish list:swap the cloaked velocity bonus for a jump/portal range bonus.remove scan resolution penalty for fitting cloaking devices.swap panther speed bonus for a projectile tracking bonus.swap sin agility bonus for hybrid rof or tracking bonus.use standard t2 resists for all black-ops battleships"
"should give them more base jump range than carriers imo."
"i would also like to see this, showing all portraits can be redundant if you are like me and all your alts look the same :p"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"while i only like some of the ideas mentioned i think #10 is the most important: scale the risk/reward towards highsec."
"up up and away! keep supporting!"
"yep,i can think of a few occasions when i've silently wished for this!"
"i live in a wh mate, tell me about it ;)"
"much needed"
"completely agree!"
"it's the little things that make a ui good. this proposal is one of those things."
"supported.i came up with another con though. more stuff in the already full right click menu."
"do it"
"yes"
"i am very kind to dogs and other small animals. so i figure i have balance in my karma and can grief my little heart out in this game. war decs could be better. i have fond memories of late 2006 and privateers running rough shod throughout high sec."
"mmk people, i'd like to end this here.... whatever you think, is not true, and high sec is not ****ing safe! wars or not (in my case not) you will still get popped by *******s, so deal with it =) war decs just give you the chance to see your opponent and fight back.high sec gank *tear* don't go afk and fall asleep outside of jita kids"
"i wonder...the people who think griefers and pirates are de facto sociopaths and potential serial killers - have they been brought up sitting indoors watching teletubbies all day? did they get stuck in la-la land somewhere along the line? i'll think about it some more next time i go muff diving.."
"i have not asked to make it free for 500 ppl corps. (are there anyway corps that big out there?) quite the opposite, i said: make it so, that new and small corps have some \"safe time\", some protected time in eve to develop themselves and after that they are free to become camped by the usual griefers. a few weeks up to a couple of months should help them out. of course the usual pvp people will thumb it down. i suspect they are eager for easy kills.well that happens already and was suggested in another form by the same grief-people over and over in this thread: people will leave the corp and join a npc corp. do you think, this is the idea behind joinging and creating a corp? do you think, that was the intention of ccp when creating the corp mechanics? to be forced to leave a corp, just because some stupid real life loser is bored and wants some cheap kills yb harassing a newbie corp?to prevent this from happening i proposed some time in \"protected mode\" for the newly created corp. otherwise we coudl just freeze corp creation. new corps will stand no chance against the older ones and against griefers anyway."
"if that is true (and i doubt it) its probably because of your constant crying on the forums attracting attention. and from the sound of it you are doing nothing at all to discourage them."
"could you please explain how something that is handed out more than once still qualifies as unique to you?and what is 'a little less unique'? is it a comparable concept to 'a bit pregnant'?new players want the old shinyshiny toys. of course. with barely 3 years of eve, i'm still drawn towards that bling. but the reason it blings so bright is that fact that it is so rare. handing them out regularly just diminishes it.and back to the real topic, i prefer to invent items for which there are t2 bpos. less math-challenged inventors ruining my margins. the invention-only items are swarmed by instant-gratification prod-newbs, that do not have the fiscal stamina to wait for a product to sell, cutting their profit margins by millions per hour (because they also do not understand how the eve market works).is having one/multiple t2 bpo more convenient than 700 drone inventions in 7 days? hell yes (been there and done it). but thats really all there is. convenience. if you are up to speed as an inventor, you can easily outperform the profits of pretty much 80%+ of the t2 bpos and keep up with even owners of multiple t2 bpo of the medium-high range. there are a few players who have a decent amount of the absolute top t2 bpos, yes, which they collected and worked for over the years, yes.and they will out-profit me. bu-hu! how mean of them.the top daytraders in jita out-profit me too, because i do not nearly have the same amount of liquid isk to work the market like they do. and chances are they earned their initial money from static 10/10s are somesuch. which i won't ever be able to do. but seriously, that doesn't mean ccp should seize their wallets.you all seem to suffer from what in colloquial german is called '*****neid'.eve is a persistent game universe. past successes as well as faults cast their shadows upon todays gameplay. this is what makes eve eve. grow a pair, use your elbows and stop mimimimimimimi-ing about the game being unfair to you.it's intended.ccp does not even dare to fully reimburse a dreadnought that an account hacker sold for 2 million isk on the regular market, because it interferes with the player market. but removing legitimately traded items with a trade volume in the hundreds of billions of isk, that's just fine? how do the players get reimbursed?what about original owners that won them themselves? are they cut short because they never sold them? what about people that stole them, sacrificing the one thing isk can't buy - trust - and got branded thieves to acquire it?what value is attached to that?in conclusion:- poorly presented- poorly thought out- lacking fundamental understanding-> absolutely not supported"
"some of us invested time and a lot of isk to buy our t2 bpos so no."
"i don't have one, so yes! lol, actually, invention should take precedence because the skill is there to be learned and not some cash cow that was given long before many ever started the game. others may have bought them, but look at the prices being able to own one of those, compared to the time it takes to be able to invent. i have never owned a t2 bpo, but can they or can they not be researched like any other bpo? i ask this since the costs for higher me on multiple bpo's far outweigh costs for simply copying (if t2 bpo's can be copied and researched like regular bpo's?). if so, a max run t2 bpo copy with an me50 compared to the highest an invented t2 bpc can go with number of runs? if not, disregard, but still approved"
"this pretty much sums up the mentality of people supporting this thread - at least you haven't tried to fabricate some thinly-veiled disguise to dress your sentiment up in.yes, they can - however, this fact is not responsible for why the margins are so tight on invention - my earlier post explains why.sort of, but not really - it is possible to make t2 bpc from a t2 bpo but there is a reason you never see t2 bpc [copied from bpo] on contracts; the copying time is punitive - significantly longer than the time it takes to build the actual t2 item itself.therefore to make running t2 bpc from bpo worthwhile you would have to sell the bpc for more than the cost of the built items it could produce, which is why you never see them."
"well, i have tried to address this. feedback on that would of course be welcome. as i see it, the value of a t2 bpo consists of the following:an implicit valuation of the profit to be made with it over a number of yearsa (much smaller) premium for having access to the bposo if a certain bpo makes you 5 billion a year at full capacity, you might value it for a three year break even at 15 + 5 (say). this certainly seems to be the way sell order discussions go most of the time. the only reason you would justify a higher premium is if you have additional bpos and you can control an entire market segment.in any case, the first part of this value is addressed by this proposal: convert the bpo into enough bpcs to last for x years. the premium is lost, but the profit is not."
"with \"barely three years of eve\" you should know that ccp has, in many cases, withdrawn items from the market with a compensation scheme. i suggest you read through some of the descriptions of pos modules next time you are bored."
"invention >>> t2 bpo. while i dabbled i made 20b easy in a few months time and supplied myself with t2 mods/ships on top.* inventor is not tied to 'one' item so not as badly affected by market fluctuations.* there is no real limit (other than raw skills) to the number of t2 bpcs the inventor can have cooking at any one time.* most t2 bpos have, due to their age, been sold/re-sold countless times thus represent significant investments for current owners.need any more reasons why it is a silly idea?the only thing i longed for while i dabbled was for some way to manipulate the me of the invented bpcs .. for the option of making it positive or at least not as negative.if you allow for that (even a little bit), then bpo owners will be forced to become inventors just to compete due to sheer volume, thus effectively removing whatever perceived advantage they might have."
"a single, nearly unused, pos module got removed from the game by flipping all the npc sell orders to buy orders. that had the virtue of being exact and explicit in its compensation value, as opposed to t2 bpos, whose value swings wildly and is very hard to determine. also, there's enough value of them in the game that we could expect their removal and replacement with cash to cause a really notable spike of inflation."
"no such thread would be complete without me voting 'yes' for this one, right ? so here i am putting it in. when i suspend my accounts i still put t2 bpo's are reason for that btw. at least someone reads those i assume. i ofc have many accounts and they kinda blink on and off on semiregular basis. overall i would not hold my breath over it. arguments for and against have been presented many times already and i'm sure ccp guys have read em also already on several occasions."
"it's hard enough responding to the real criticism without having to answer this sort of stuff. but let's do it as a one off: go back up to the first post and read the proposal; point out the part where it says \"replace them with cash\"."
"that is a lie and not what is proposed.please present a math proof that replacing a me15 bpo with x years worth of me-1 bpcs preserves the bpo's profit over these x years."
"instead of accusing people of lying, stop making assumptions. i did not specify a fixed amount of bpcs/length of time in my proposal: ccp would have to work that out. ccp has specifically asked that proposals should not provide details of solutions.your mistake is to assume that the profit of a bpo over x years will have to be provided for with x years of bpcs. this does not have to be the case, it can be y years."
"yes, after all if someone has thought to tie up his capital for 3 years it make no difference is you tie it up for 10 years . after all we will be still here in 10 years. and if bpo owners get multiple bpc to cover those y years so the capital is not tied up for the full period you have the net effect of increasing t2 production. you seem to have a hard time grasping the aftereffects of your suggestions. this seem a fairly precise amount of time and a specific me. maybe you should redo your proposal?"
".as someone that makes darn near all the isk i have in game through invention i find the concept that the t2 market would be broken open by getting rid of t2 bpo's questionable at best. while i am not sure how much research cuts the cost for bpo owners their effect on profit for the inventor is negligible at best. though with the build requirements for ships being adjusted oh so many patches ago i assume a t2 ship bpo owner is rolling in isk as the me effects the armor plate requirements the most, unless ccp thought of that and adjusted t2 ship bpo's. however that assumes forethought on the side of ccp which we all know through experience is a laughable jest.oh and not supported, why are there so many people want this game to be fair? stop trying to ruin this game you bastards!"
"i would like to be able to rename my ships without having to be in said ship. now this is not a huge issue it is one of those convenience things that would just make everyones lives a bit easier, plus i don't see this being really difficult to implement."
"1.0"
"not sure that is accurate, probably boils down to when/how a given database entry can be modified or some such. spreadsheets in space, remember :)would be a most welcome addition though."
"can we just have a \"thumbs up/thumbs down\" links on the op please instead of having to reply."
"same argument was stated in defence of the old *horrible* probe system.being a master of poor ui doesn't make good ui a bad thing."
"there's nothing actually wrong with the ui. while improvements can still be made, it's not really limited or poor.not everyone uses the basic 4 probes \"drop down a size and move them closer\" approach. most of us who actually live in w-space have probing techniques that involve up to all 8 probes in a set pattern to facilitate faster probing.while changing the spread will help you get higher signature strengths for that particular pattern (not saying it's a bad idea at all), different arrangements are used for different things, and setting them up accurately takes time. the goal here is to be able to save that set-up, and recall and re-use it.example:in my home system i want to put probes over each planet to check for signature locality. i can recall a set-up that has the probes already arranged in the same layout as the planets in my system (because i positioned them before, and saved it), i adjust the x/y/z slightly with shift-drag and away we go.i find a new signature, and want to use a 4 probe tetrahedron to pin it down. i recall my tetrahedron set-up (and then ctrl+drag to resize it ;)) and pin down the new signature, its a wormhole!neighbouring system has 50 signatures in it, i need a fast sweeper pattern using all 8 probes to eliminate undesirable signatures quickly. couple of clicks and i call it up.30 minutes later i have a handful of unidentified signatures left, and i need to go back to my tetrahedron to get some decent strength hits on them, which is fine because i can just load the pattern that was saved.does it still not seem beneficial to you?"
"well up for this,also to your point, teadaze - i'd say probing for ships right now is too hard.in fact, i'll go one further - probing for ships is practically impossible.assuming the pilot of the ship you're after is not some stoned zombie, or afk, absolutely anything can evade the clutches of a prober no problem at all - you're relying on a lack of awareness, a blunder, or coincidence if you wana catch someone by probing them out.currently you have a better chance of success by using the directional scanner to find approximate direction and picking a likely warpable object lying on that plane and chancing your arm warping to that.i don't know exactly how ccp thought \"combat\" probes would be used, but to have brought about a situation where a default tool included with any ship is more effective in terms of chance-of-success than a specialised ship using specialised equipment smells of f**k-up to me!"
"yes"
"i like this idea seems reasonable."
"i like the \"allow shrink wrapping without courier contract\" idea better. but this is a good start."
"0.0 is supposed to be dangerous - you cannot expect to be able to carebear away with impunity just because you have sov - if you have a cloaked neut/hostile in local you need to make damn sure your operation is equipped to cope with him, whether he shows up or not.if you don't, you deserve to pay the price. if you can't then you don't deserve to be a 0.0 space holder.trying to foist the responsibility for safeguarding your 0.0 operations onto ccp is not the way forward - if you are the sovereign force in the system, you police it."
"qft"
"not supported"
"basically i'm a carebear. i started mission-running to get sum standing, but now i'm really thinking about selling my ore-ship and going on only with mission-running cause it's fun, it's interactive and it needs my attraction (mostly).next step for me is an upgrade from bc to bs. some weeks ago it was upgrading from retriever to hulk.the strangest part overall for me is:i'm able to keep up my ammo-production (some 100k's of medium-charges a week) by refining the loot. i don't even need to think about reactivating my ore-ship. and with the lps i get the ammo is easily transformed into faction-charges.so yeah, mining needs some love and some fresh ideas."
"summer expansion is supposed to be industry mostly. not sure what exactly they have planned for mining though."
"hence, this is why it could be awesome if the csm could ask ccp what their plans are.just say:\"oh, hey, ccp, we heard something about comet mining and planet ring mining at fanfest 09, hows that going?\"ccp's answer: \"noo, our souls will be scarred forever because you said the 'm'-word!\"or something like that :p"
"last thing i heard on mining was in 2008 after fanfest about revamping the system for plantary belt mining.... no word since then except \"we'd like to do something....\" at 2009 fanfest."
"i think the team working on it got bored and were distracted by mini-games.an update on what is happening would be nice."
"i believe another person made the same proposal one or two days ago.if you want sov. go to normal 0.0 and fight to get it. in w-space (carebear 0.0) you can make a ridicules amount of isk fast. the downside to this is that you have to do a bit of logistics to get it all running smoothly.sov. and stations are just a big no go in my book. in carebeard 0.0 you are relatively safe as it is and with sov. and stations carebear 0.0 would be almost untouchable. is the sov. in w-space going to be the subject of the month in like missile threads has been? please just stop now."
"well for a start i think you might find the sleepers would object to you taking sov in their space. your big shinny outpost wouldn't be yours for long once they awoke.part of the point of w space is that it is different to normal space. it is supposed to feel like somewhere distant, foreign and inhospitable so being able to build a safe home there is against the whole ethos of w space."
"actually i'd like to point out that wh contrary to popular belief is taken in my mind, and the sleepers have been there waaaay longer. but i suppose you'd like an \"official\" answer as to why no...wh leads to space far far away, billions of lightyears, so this is why no jump gates, no cynos leading to them, no comms (no local) no market, nothing. you have yourself and any friends you brought it. as for capital ships, they are not brought into most holes, but rather built, at the pos that players setup there. also, no stargate makes it extremely difficult for sov, and if you start putting the outposts at one point, it becomes very easy to booby trap.finally in closing, i'd like to say that it's not practical anyways, because then you'd have to pay for the free version of null sec -.- you already get the rarest ores, the best salvage, and it's far more safe than null sec, as it's much harder to find you, know i ask you why do you want to put a tax on this?"
"it's because sovereignty is simply recognition by concord / ded that you have staked your claim to an area of un-policed space but which falls under their jurisdiction in as much as they provide and maintain the stargate and associated comms network in the system.wh space is unknown, there is no concord infrastructure present in the systems - so how can they recognise sovereignty in it?also the wh systems are miles from anywhere - you can't cyno between them because they're too far apart.the bottom line is if you recognise sov, and have the systems mapped so jump technology (be it cyno gen, jump bridge, star gate, whatever) can be applied it stops being \"unknown\" space and becomes simply 0.0."
"currently on page 2and each topic is met with the same response. as a member of the largest resident wormhole corp at present, i can safely say, we do not want these mechanics in our space."
"bump!"
"since the buff cloaking vessels got last year, especially bombers, we've seen them taking a far more active posture and they fulfil the covert ops niche role gracefully. this leads to me, amongst others, thinking about it as a way of electronic warfare. ecm has a counterpart, eccm. sensor dampening has a counterpart, sensor boosting. tracking computers have tracking disruptors, and speed is countered by webs, scrams and targetpainters. there is however no way to influence the advantage a cloak brings to people.of course, this is part of their role. but i think there should be a way to eighter prevent cloaking on grid, or search for the location of a cloaker in system. i envision there are loads of other techniques possible. how about we put some of those in this thread, so maybe the csm can take it up to ccp to take a look at them? this thread isn't intended to discuss the feastability of this tactic, since we won't get a unifying stance on that i'm afraid.with regards,highfield"
"disclaimer:- i fly cloaked ships myself- i believe cloaking is a great mechanicbut i also think it needs *some sort* of counter. nothing as drastic as being able to probe out cloaked ships or any other nerf to that extent, but something. if you have something constructive to add on this topic, please do.- sok."
"black star might be a bit butthurt from panda team stealthbomber drops."
"there is a counter already. target cloaking ship: no cloak.if you think about having anti-claok stuff in game, first you have to remove all the disadvantages for using one: think about it, would you like having instalocking claokers that you can't decloak by proximity (you'd need the special module for that after all)?stop whining about cloakers, there are quite a few ways to counter them and it only needs smart flying. not supported."
"i'm not sure i see how you made the leap from a ship being able to cloak to cloaks being a form of electronic warfare.electronic warfare as i understand it is the use of electronic disruption devices to disable or negatively affect the operation of a ships weapons/propulsion/targetting systems.cloaking devices do none of these things and, moreover, they negatively affect the propulsion and targetting systems of the ship they're fitted to! whichever way i look at it i cannot see how a cloaking device would fit in to the category of 'electronic warfare system' - it's simply not, it's just an electronic system.you also state in your post that there is no way to influence the advantage a cloak brings to people when in fact there is: - proximity. if you get close enough to a cloaked ship, the cloak is deactivated without the pilot's consent.if you wish to increase your chances of a successful de-cloak you need to increase your effective size (popping your drones and selecting \"return and orbit\" is an example of how to do this).much as i'd love to be able to track down, decloak and kill all the isk-famers proliferating in my neck of the woods, i can't support this idea."
"for as far as the proximity goes you're totally right. this feature still should be in place. i am therefore not pledging for a de-cloaking device, but a way to get on grid with those ****ers so the proximity thing can actually be used. think of it as a way to give the cloakhunters a way to get the fight to the cloaker. once detected it is purely on the skill of the cloaky pilot to eighter evade ships on grid, warp out (bless if you have a covops cloak) or sit tight and hope the best for it. this makes catching macroratters possible, and gives the cloakhunters at least a chance to get a fight against those annoying red cloakers in home systems. i do however think that a slight increase in the proximity factor to lets say 5km is viable."
"perhaps the problem is not the cloak but your pilots ?if you dont like the cloak there is still some mission to run in empire ..."
"this and: a cloak comes with disadvantages/weaknesses. in a lot of ways a cloak is it's own counter-measure. and:if the stealth bombers are having a much larger impact on the game after being changed, (bombers are the common scapegoat/example in these discussions) that's an entirely different thread."
"would it? - to add a new dimension to ransoming you'd have to know what the implants were before you destroyed the pod, surely?!finding out after the event that you just destroyed 2bn-worth of implants might give you an additional belly-chuckle, but it's not going to pad your wallet out any!"
"aye, simple is not better, eve is not about simple. people who play eve didn't stay with eve because of it's simplicity. fire (or just flog) whoever thought simplifying anything in eve would be a good idea."
"i think they mean the npc only corporation, not the npc corporations that players can join.if that is not the case, i fully agree with you.the 7 options suggestion seem a decent minimal compromise. in any case, after some thought, supported.re-reading the blog i noticed this:i am wrong or it can create even more problems when setting refining tax?"
"supported.especially with the new fleet finder and the option to invite ppl via standing the more detailed standings can be very handy.e.g. you have corporations you are blue with +5 but dont want to fleet with but otoh you have corporations you are blue with too but do want to fleet invite. this you could do by setting the standing to e.g. +6.keep the detailed but streamline the ui.also most if not all of \"eve is to complex/complicated\" issues are linked to the horrible ui not the complexity of the game."
"for pvp please, absolutely no logical reason why ewar does show and neuts do not"
"./signed"
"tick.should be an easy one to implement, too."
"ccp confuses me cuz they'll tell you things you shouldn't know like whose damping you or scraming, but not nos/neuts which are less geared towards importance in the pvp ladder? (depending on sit)"
"i have 2 solutions currently.first is disbanding corps and replacing them with channels, thus hiding the members list and avoiding wardecs with one move.the other option is to create a bunch of trial alts and sign them up to the corp to hide the real members in garbage data.which does ccp prefer we do?obtainable through ingame spying, google surfing, intelligence gathering or via some kinda of api/logserver hack?if it's a hack then sure a level playing field is good, i take the same position when it comes to macro-miners.however if this \"advanced means\" is simply the collecting of a list of known members, then this is not a problem to be fixed or an unlevel playing field in any way, shape, or form.i can understand the social reasons for the thinking. i can understand that people need to be seen to be connected.i however can not agree on ccp deciding to publish private corp information just to have long friends lists on a social network."
"it's actually possible to put together a list of every member in every corp in the game if you really wanted to. the character namespace is finite, so it can be searched exhaustively to find every character name in eve. then just run 700k show info commands, and voila, list of members for every corp in new eden. nobody has done this in game, because the interface is terrible and the game will sniff a macro a mile away, doubly so when you have to keep redoing it to keep your data fresh. but when you put a show info tool on the web, well, someone will write a crawler bot in the first evening to run regular downloads of it. at that point, membership lists are out of the bag, and you might as well make them public to avoid information asymmetry. what ccp needs to do is figure out a way to throw a wrench into the proceedings. one obvious choice is to hard-limit how often you can do show info queries, but i wouldn't give a plugged nickel for the chances of that holding up against some bored hacker. similarly, they could try to make it hard to put names to corps, or remove search functions for player names, or something, but those seem like very big hammers to use. if they can't stop it, then it comes down to a question of whether intel-gathering or a functional show info is a more important part of the post-spacebook game of eve, and to be honest, i don't know. this is not as simple as you're making it out to be. there's good reasons why ccp is asking this question, and it's not because they're dumb."
"limiting the amount of information shown on spacebook by default seems like a sensible solution.eg. by default make employment history hidden to non-friends."
"can we have a nice easy sorting option so we can easily see what needs recycling and what doesnt, something that is in game and doesnt require me giving my api out :)"
"been proposed, raised to ccp, and confirmed as an intended addition already. great idea, but no need to support it more."
"ahh briliant, ermm i did try to look into it not hard enough i guess where was this posted / linked as confirmed?"
"supported.automatic logging when enabled in fleet window seems a reasonable idea.regarding lag issues i don't think it'd be a problem after all, since you already receive the data from server, it's only a matter of keeping another file to append to. no big deal."
"ofcource."
"typhoon is quite awesome as it is. suck it up and train the skills and you'll fall in love like many others have. otherwise fly one of the other battleships and leave us alone."
"i do."
"is hard not to be an ass responding this since i've been through the training for t2 launchers to make the phoon work and now i jealously guard anyone messing about with my swiss army knife however i do understand the frustrations of some minnie bs pilots with the fact that their tier 1 bs is the hardest in the game to skill for by a flippin' huge margin and this is only made more frustrating by the fact that the tier 2 bs is a pile o'crud for the traditional roles (read rr work) that the phoon fills so admirably.while it may be tempting to want to screw around with the phoon to make life easier, it has been that way for too long and too many pilots have given soooo much skill training time to it for it to changed so drastically now. removing the split hislots from the phoon would be like giving them to the domi... just don't do it.ccp may have been attempting to address the problem of accessible rr bs for minnies when they switched the hps on the pest (as if anyone really knows wtf they are thinking) but in reality they made a poor bs worse than in already was as the switch in hps directly contradicts one of the few good points the pest has... it's base speed.i wish there was an answer for you mate, but it really seems that minnies just have to put up with more training than other races to be viable as frankly, at least in the bs class, the other options are just f***ing terrible sorry but not supported"
"drake draconis perhaps if you posted on a character that actually pvp'd and therefore had been involved in medium to large fleet fights your opinion on post dominion pvp might have some validity."
"so, let me get this straight:this is a whine thread about lag? :/"
"gigar again another carebear alt that has not been in any pvp engagements.certainly dominion has made 0.0 much more lucrative for individual pilots, but if like me you play this game for the fleet pvp it is 100% broken. this is not a new issue i understand that the csm has already asked for dominion to be rolled back. this is not an issue that is going away."
"huh, gigar is certainly not a carebear alt, and i've most certainly been involved with massive 0.0 fleets, so i know what the lag is about :pjust because i suck at pvp doesn't mean that i don't do iton topic:dominion introduced some really, really nice things (system upgrades, yay, usefull sc's, yay), so to call a rollback to solve some of the lag... no.ccp have already stated that they are working hard on solving the issues with fleet lag, so it's just patience that's required now."
"odd of you to call what i did weaseling. all i did was give the entire quote in context and highlight the most relevant parts. where i come from we call that an exercise in comprehension. you, on the other hand, provided a snippet taken out of context. you then went on to extrapolate from other sources (real or imagined) to support your erroneos position. hell, you even did it again this time.i will leave it to all who read the full quote in context to judge who the \"weasel\" is. mmkay?"
"i think i understand your position. 1. you oppose a general buff to missiles as a whole because (a) they do not need one as an entire class and (b) such a general buff might cause a game breaking imbalance.2. you think that a module which either increases range, explosion velocity or explosion radius of all missiles is the kind of op general buff that might cause just such an imbalance.have i got it right so far?if so, did you have the same opinion when the already existing modules that do similar things for all turrets got a a general buff? are those the kind of game breaking general buffs you are opposed to? funny i must have missed that post.oh now go on and tell me that was just a tweek that only provided a little more balance. more turret ships are dropping a low slot (damage, propulsion,or tankmod) just for that \"little tweak\" and not just on minmatar ships. you see it was a general buff to all turret users. a general buff that many might say was not needed and further widened the gap between turrets and missiles.but let me be clear. i do not think that buff was game breaking. i do agree wit the op and think such a buff highlights the need for similar modules for missiles however.increasing falloff on existing tracking enhancer mods for turret users did not break the game anymore than introducing similar mods for missiles would. there must be balance in the force.p.s. general buff"
"sigh, you are always the same.guns have been balanced and re-balanced for ages around having those modules. you and your pals want missiles to be buffed with one (op) or more new modules.you and your pals don't want to pay anything for that buff. so yes, it is a general buff a no cost.it is the same reason why drones will not get new modules. it would require to rebalance the whole weapons system. if you really feel that missiles need a general rebalance, state that listing what you want to get and what you are willing to pay.\"we want fastest damage delivery and more range as a secondary effect\"\"we don't want to pay for that\" \"we don't care for balance between different weapons systems\"seem to sum up what was proposed here very well."
"hell no i dont want 0.0 to be a safezone, but tbh, its annoying when you see a bunch of cloakers in local and you have a fleet ready to catch them , but there is not even an inefficent or expensive option to deal with them, its just a game of when they get bored and leave.going into an enemy system cloaked, getting some kills for maybe 30 mins or an hour, should be possible. any longer is a pestilence."
"\"new topic\" is not \"reply topic\".and patience is a virtue. if he wants to wait longer, his choice. you just needs enough balls to undock. and be prepared for their attack."
"i second this proposal. perhaps one could also give additional incentive to fc who succesfully lead a fleet of a cirtan size. maybie have a fleet mission that rewards all the members, and gives a rare item or something simular to the fc."
"and, there is huge amount of people who just don't care about the game 1-2+ months away. so the representation factor is a lot larger when you only count people with an active interest in the game."
"it will put an end to docking games because nobody will be willing to undock. i understand your frustration but this is not the way to go about it, there are a multitude of scenarios where someone can find themself scrammed without initiating agro (capitals jumping in, landed 1000m off a station from warping in, kickout stations). the fix is pretty simple. scale the agro timer by ship size (perhaps 2 mins for bs, 5 mins for caps) and introduce agro for rr. simples."
"interesting, especially the part where csm getting the potential to affect backlog priorities.however i'm not sure i like the whole scrammed and unable to dock thing to prevent docking games (i.e. what happens when you warp to a station and someone instalocks before you can dock?). i'm far more in support of the idea of increased docking timers (and potentially self destruct timers) which was discussed at the last fanfest as the ship size grows (i.e. frigs having 1 minute, cruisers 1 and 1/2 and so on, no hard numbers, just to give an idea)."
"i would take it a step further docking time based on real hitpoint amount, that way plated/trimarked ships would need to survive much longer and it would also make rr games much harder."
"\"there was a discussion about the pros and cons of including the member lists of corporations.\" \"the reason ccp wants to include the list is that its already possible to obtain this list, albeit through advanced means, and ccp feels it would level the playing field if everyone had access to it.\"spending hours scouring killboards for a list of possible corp members and then more hours verifying them in game is not easy. getting a spy into a corp to get a list of members is not easy. both of these are valid intelligence jobs that i have done in the past. ccp should not be removing unusual corp jobs like this and they shouldn't be making something that is hard to do now into something anyone can do in 2 clicks. you might as well say it is possible to fire a dd through advanced means and it would level the playing field if any noob with an ibis could do it.please insist eve gate is an entirely opt in feature. i don't want farcebook, etc exposing my private information irl and nor do i want ccp doing it in eve."
"damnit... not a whisper about market management of deliveries, which in its current state is atrocious (not able to sort by range, system/constellation/region filtering, ect. as personal assets are currently).nothing said about the horrible pos interface for... well... everything, from managing weapons to refining (no refinery timer in the ui at all) to manufacturing/research. it's just flat out abysmal.destroyers got a shrug.unfinished expansions got laughed off the board (cosmos, fw, etc).while i'm pleased to see the minutes posted in a clear, understandable format within days of completion i am little satisfied with the topics that were brought up. none, beyond shares investments, concerned the industrial side at all.and wth came up with the idea of a scrambled ship not being able to dock??? at many stations you're trapped dead regardless... either you try to wait out the timer and find yourself 20 or more km from the station and scrambled before you can twitch, or at stations with huge radii you spam the dock button like mad and get pinned down by an interceptor, unable to dock or escape while the blob comes rushing in.that needs an alternate function to limit docking games.in the end: thumbs down."
"lots of cynics on this forum. i'm so surprised, er.. well done, ccp and csm. don't let the whiners win, this is still very unique amongst games."
"if you look at the meeting 5 minutes you will see that these topics were not on the list of issues and thus not on the agenda. i suggest you moan at the industrial related csm reps for not bringing up this stuff."
"*sigh* 'moan at'?have you been wearing blinders? it's been mentioned, spoken of, pushed, and screamed about since the day you got elected.clearly anything that does not involve blowing something up it is simply not worth putting any consideration into. yeah, i do my share of pvp, and the holes in *that* leave a sour taste in my mouth just as much as the poorly managed logistics backend, but i don't need to say anything about pvp flaws... every csm board has been dedicated to them at the expense of every thing else.at least the particolored mining lasers were not brought up... oh, of course, industrial side again."
"then you should poke the reps that deal with that sort of stuff instead of going full ****** against the entire csm.and poses were discussed at length but if its not in the minutes i'm afraid we can't tell you much about the results."
"i'm fully aware of this and have been pointing out that people should speak to the industrial focussed csm reps about it.incorrect analysis.we have 9 csm reps and we typically deal with 15 or so issues per meeting. this means each rep can raise a couple of issues and have at least one accepted for discussion.i was not voted in on a platform of industrial improvements so why should i be picking up those issues when i have less knowledge in industrial matters over issues that reflect the platform i did run on?we have industrial people on the csm and they are the ones best placed to pitch those issues. they have more knowledge than me about the impact etc but so far it appears they don't think those issues need to be picked up.i'm pretty certain those were on the minor issues list thus didn't need to be discussed further."
"sorry teadaze, but could you maybe explain an old and possibly somewhat grumpy guy the discrepancy of your quote to the statement i found at the \"what is the csm\" page at evelopedia?since this is among the first pages any nooblet to the csm idea stumbles across, it sounds somewhat confusing..."
"getting \"development time\" is a very good move, but apart from that the whole meeting sounded very disappointing.hybrids whine from gallente hurts, sure they got not that much range but they do a hell of a lot of damage.the web-nerf hurt them more than the \"fast flying\" minni so i do see a point but nerfing projectile ?come'on.that's just ridiculous.alsopure stupidity.ccp somehow just can't get into their head that for a \"working game\" they need a transition from high-sec to low-sec to 0.0, because so far, every part of the eve'verse is played differently.factional warfare at least some stepping stone between all out pvp in 0.0 and the carebear hands holding in empire. they new sov system was their first step into overhauling 0.0 but imho the same stuff should be introduced into low-sec though not with all the benefits and all the upgrades.the four militias should be allowed to install upgrades up to lvl3 in their factional warfare zones to upgrade these systems. this would allow players to \"learn and play\" around with sov. stuff that they will face in 0.0.for those that think that is overpowered, thing again. it is actually much harder to keep stuff running in low-sec than in 0.0 due to the fact that neutrals will be involved, either as scouts, spais, 3rd parties or just messing with your brain.so all in all, ccp show again the lack of any knowledge or understanding of game development.very disappointed."
